ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest and Our Relationship with Our Manager The management agreement was not negotiated on an arms-length basis. As a result, the terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if it was negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. The management agreement between Care and its Manager, CIT Healthcare LLC, was negotiated between related parties. As a result, we did not have the benefit of arms-length negotiations of the type normally conducted with an unaffiliated third party and the terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if we did engage in negotiations with an unaffiliated third party. We may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the management agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with our Manager. The contribution agreement for the initial assets was not negotiated on an arms-length basis and we did not receive independent appraisals of the initial assets contributed upon completion of our initial public offering. As a result, the terms of the contribution agreement, including the consideration paid by us in exchange for the initial assets, may not be as favorable to us as if it was negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. The contribution agreement was negotiated between related parties. As a result, we did not have the benefit of arms-length negotiations of the type normally conducted with an unaffiliated third party and the terms, including the terms of the contribution of the initial assets, may not be as favorable to us as if we did engage in negotiations with an unaffiliated third party. We did not obtain any independent third-party appraisals of the initial assets contributed to us and the determination of the fair market value of the initial assets upon the closing of our initial public offering was made by our Manager. These assets were contributed to us directly by CIT Holding, an affiliate of ours, and, in exchange, we issued to CIT Holding cash proceeds from our initial public offering and shares of our common stock. As a result, the consideration paid by us in exchange for the contribution of the assets may have exceeded the fair market value of these assets. In addit ion, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the contribution agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with our Manager and CIT. Our Manager sources most of our investments, and we may also participate in investments in which our Manager and its affiliates are also participating, which could result in conflicts of interest. Our Manager sources most of our investments and we may also participate in investments in which our Manager and its affiliates are also participating. Certain of our investments may be subordinate to investments made by our Manager in the same issuer or project. Transactions originated by, or in which we co-invest or participate with, our Manager are not and will not be the result of arms-length negotiations and involve conflicts between our interests and the interests of our Manager in obtaining favorable terms and conditions. There is no assurance that the conflicts of interest policy that addresses some of the conflicts relating to our investments will be adequate to address all of the conflicts that may arise. In each case, some of the same officers will be determining the price and terms for the investments for both us and our Manager and there can be no assurance that the procedural protections, such as obtaining market prices or other reliable indicators of fair market value, appointing a third party servicer in the event of a loan’s default, or having an independent investment advisor review all of our investments, will be sufficient to assure that the consideration we pay for these investments will not exceed their fair market value and that we would not receive more advantageous terms for an investment had we negotiated the purchase with an independent third party. In addition, since our Manager’s officers and employees are also responsible for providing the same services for our Manager’s portfolio of investments, they may not devote sufficient time to the management of our business operations. Our interests in such investments may conflict with the interests of such other vehicles or accounts in related investments in the event of a default or restructuring of the investment. 21 Table of Contents We rely on our Manager to assist us in various aspects of our business, and our Manager, in turn, relies on CIT and its affiliates to assist it in various aspects of its business, including financing, and there is no assurance that CIT will continue to allocate the same resources to our Manager to provide services to us. The relationship with our Manager is an important component of our growth strategy and provides us with services essential to our operations. Our Manager represents just one segment of CIT, and relies on CIT and its affiliates for assistance in various aspects of its business, including financing. Our Manager obtains its financing from public and private securities offerings by CIT. Due to continued weakening in the credit markets and the likely negative impact on CIT’s earnings, Standard & Poor’s recently lowered CIT’s counterparty rating to A−/A-2. On March 20, 2008, CIT announced it was drawing upon $7.3 billion in unsecured U.S. bank credit facilities to refinance debt maturing in the near term. CIT’s access to its usual sources of wholesale funding has been closed due to the continuing dislocation of the global credit markets. We cannot assure you that CIT will continue to be able to raise our Manager’s financing in t he future. We also cannot assure you that CIT will continue to allocate the same resources to our Manager’s business. An inability or unwillingness on the part of CIT to access the capital markets on behalf of our Manager or to continue to provide the same level of support to our Manager could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may compete with existing and future investment vehicles for access to our Manager, which may reduce investment opportunities available to us. In the future, our Manager may sponsor separate investment vehicles with investment focuses that overlap with our investment focus. Under the management agreement, we have the right to terminate the management agreement for cause if our Manager raises, sponsors, forms or advises any new investment fund, company or vehicle, including any REIT, that invests primarily in healthcare-related commercial mortgage loans or other commercial healthcare-related real estate loans, such as mezzanine loans (but specifically excluding CMBS and other similar pass through securities) in the United States or healthcare-related properties in the United States. However, we may choose to not enforce our right to terminate the management agreement. Accordingly, we may compete for access to the benefits that we expect our relationship with our Manager to provide and for the time of their investment professionals to carry out and facilitate our investment activities. We may make invest ments that are senior or junior to participations in, or have rights and interests different from or adverse to, the investments made by other vehicles or accounts managed by our Manager. Our interests in such investments may conflict with the interests of such other vehicles or accounts in related investments at the time of origination or in the event of a default or restructuring of the investment. Termination of our management agreement would be difficult and costly. Termination of the management agreement with our Manager would be difficult and costly. The management agreement has an initial term expiring on June 30, 2010 and will automatically be renewed for one-year terms thereafter unless we or our Manager gives the other party at least 180 days prior notice of its intention not to renew the agreement. We may not terminate the management agreement without cause during the initial term or any renewal term. If we elect to not renew the agreement upon expiration of the initial term, or any renewal term, we will be required to pay a termination fee, within 90 days of termination, equal to the sum of the average annual base management fee plus the average annual incentive fee earned during the two years immediately prior to termination, multiplied by three. The termination fee will be calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter prior to the date of termination. In addition, following any termination of the management agreement, we must pay our Manager all compensation accruing to the date of the termination. These provisions increase the effective cost to us of terminating the management agreement with our Manager, even if we believe our Manager’s performance is not satisfactory. 22 Table of Contents Our Manager’s base management fee is payable regardless of our performance. Our Manager is entitled to receive a base management fee from us that is based on the amount of our equity (as defined in the management agreement), regardless of the performance of our portfolio. For example, we would pay our Manager a base management fee for a specific period even if we experienced a net loss during the same period. Our Manager’s entitlement to substantial nonperformance-based compensation might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking investments that provide attractive risk-adjusted returns for our portfolio. This in turn could hurt our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. Our Manager’s incentive fee may induce it to make more speculative investments. Our Manager is entitled to an incentive fee from us that may cause it to invest in high-risk investments. In addition to its base management fee, our Manager is entitled to receive an incentive fee based entirely upon our achievement of targeted levels of funds from operations and net capital gains. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn an incentive fee based on funds from operations and net capital gains may lead our Manager to place undue emphasis on the maximization of funds from operations at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, in order to achieve a higher incentive fee. Investments with higher yield potentials generally are riskier or more speculative. This could result in increased risk to our investment portfolio. Risks Related to Our Business Prior to our initial public offering, we had no operating history and may not be able to successfully operate our business or generate sufficient revenue to make or sustain distributions to our stockholders. We were incorporated in March 2007 and have minimal operating history. The results of our operations depend on many factors, including the performance of the initial assets, the availability of opportunities for the acquisition of additional assets, the level and volatility of interest rates, readily accessible short- and long-term financing, conditions in the financial markets and economy, and our ability to successfully operate our business and execute our investment strategy. We will face substantial competition in acquiring suitable investments, which could adversely impact the yields that we receive on our new investments. We are dependent on our Manager, who has limited experience operating a REIT. Prior to our initial public offering, our Manager had no experience operating a REIT or operating a business in compliance with the numerous technical restrictions and limitations necessary to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code or to be exempt from the Investment Company Act. Our Manager’s lack of experience in managing a portfolio of assets under such constraints may hinder its ability to achieve our investment objective. In addition, maintaining our REIT qualification and complying with the Investment Company Act exemptions limit the types of investments, particularly with respect to healthcare businesses, that we are able to make. We can offer no assurance that our Manager will be successful at all or as successful as in its previous endeavors. Our board of directors is not expected to review or approve individual investments unless our independent investment advisor, a function presently filled on a rotational basis by an independent boa rd member, determines that such review is appropriate or such review is required under our investment guidelines. We are dependent upon our Manager for our success and may not find a suitable replacement if the management agreement is terminated or such key personnel are no longer available to us. We do not have any employees. Our officers are employees of our Manager through CIT. We do not have any separate facilities and are completely reliant on our Manager, which has significant discretion as to the implementation of our operating policies and strategies. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of our Manager. Our executive officers and our 23 Table of Contents Manager will source, evaluate, negotiate, structure, close, service and monitor our investments. The management agreement does not require our Manager to dedicate specific personnel to fulfilling its obligations to us under the management agreement, or require personnel to dedicate a specific amount of time. The departure of a significant number of the professionals of our Manager could have a material adverse effect on our performance. We are also subject to the risk that our Manager will not renew the management agreement and that no suitable replacement will be found to manage us. After June 30, 2010, the expiration of the initial term of the management agreement, or upon the expiration of any automatic renewal term, our Manager may elect not to renew the management agreement without cause, without penalty, on 180 days’ prior written notice to us. We can offer no assurance that our Manager will remain our external manager, that we will be able to find an adequate replacement for our Manager sho uld our Manager elect not to renew the management agreement, or that we will continue to have access to our Manager’s principals and professionals or their information or deal flow. Our Manager has broad discretion to invest funds and may make investments that ultimately produce investment returns which are substantially below expectations or that result in losses. Our Manager is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines and has great latitude within those guidelines in determining the types of assets it may decide are proper investments for us. Our board of directors will periodically review our investment guidelines and our investment portfolio. However, our board of directors is not expected to review or approve each proposed investment unless our independent investment advisor, a function presently filled on a rotational basis by an independent board member, determines that such review is appropriate or such review is required under our investment guidelines. In addition, the directors and our independent investment advisor will rely primarily on information provided to them by our Manager in reviewing our investments and our portfolio. Furthermore, transactions entered into by our Manager on our behalf may be costly, difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our board of directors. Our Manager has great latitude within the broad parameters of our investment guidelines in determining the types of assets it may decide are proper investments for us, which could result in investment returns that are substantially below expectations or that result in losses, which would materially and adversely affect our business, operations and results. Our failure to manage future growth effectively may have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our ability to grow, which depends, in turn, on the senior management team of our Manager and its ability to identify and invest in assets that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our Manager’s structuring of our investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and our access to financing on acceptable terms. Our ability to grow is also dependent upon our Manager’s ability to successfully hire, train, supervise, manage and retain its employees. We may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations. When we obtain financing, lenders could impose restrictions on us that would affect our ability to incur additional debt, our capability to make distributions to stockholders and our flexibility to determine our operating policies. Loan documents we execute will contain negative covenants that may limit, among other things, our ability to repurchase stock, distribute more than a certain amount of our funds from operations, and employ leverage beyond certain amounts. If our Manager ceases to be our Manager pursuant to the management agreement, financial institutions providing any credit facilities may not provide future financing to us. Financial institutions that finance our investments pursuant to credit facilities and warehouse agreements may require that our Manager remain our Manager pursuant to the management 24 Table of Contents agreement. If our Manager ceases to be our Manager, it may constitute an event of default and the financial institution providing the warehouse credit facility may have the right to terminate its facility and any obligation to advance funds to us to finance our future investments. If our Manager ceases to be our Manager for any reason and we are unable to obtain financing under these or replacement credit facilities, our growth may be limited. If we issue senior securities, we may be subject to restrictive covenants and limitations on our operating flexibility, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. If we decide to issue senior securities in the future, they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument that will likely contain covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Holders of senior securities may be granted specific rights, including the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments, and rights to require approval to sell assets. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. We, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. The use of securitization financings with over-collateralization requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flow. Should the securitized debt markets stabilize and reopen, we expect that the terms of securitizations we may issue will generally provide that the principal amount of assets must exceed the principal balance of the related bonds by a certain amount, commonly referred to as ‘‘over-collateralization.’’ We anticipate that the securitization terms will provide that, if certain delinquencies and/or losses exceed specified levels, which we will establish based on the analysis by the rating agencies (or any financial guaranty insurer) of the characteristics of the assets collateralizing the bonds, the required level of over-collateralization may be increased or may be prevented from decreasing as would otherwise be permitted had losses or delinquencies not exceeded those levels. Other tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may restrict our ability to receive net income from assets collateralizing the obligations. We cannot assure you that the performance tests will be satisfied. In advance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies or other key transaction parties on our future securitization financings, we cannot assure you of the actual terms of the securitization delinquency tests, over-collateralization terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors regarding the calculation of net income to us. Failure to obtain favorable terms with regard to these matters may materially and adversely affect the availability of net income to us. If our assets fail to perform as anticipated, our over-collateralization or other credit enhancement expense associated with our securitization financings will increase. We may be required to repurchase loans that we have sold or to indemnify holders of securitization debt. If any of the loans we originate or acquire and sell or securitize do not comply with representations and warranties that we make about certain characteristics of the loans, the borrowers and the underlying properties, we may be required to repurchase those loans (including from a trust vehicle used to facilitate a structured financing of the assets through a securitization) or replace them with substitute loans. In addition, in the case of loans that we have sold instead of retained, we may be required to indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased loans typically require a significant allocation of working capital to be carried on our books, and our ability to borrow against such assets may be limited. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Competition in acquiring desirable investments may limit their availability, which could, in turn, negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We will compete for investments with numerous public and private investment vehicles, such as other REITs, investment companies, healthcare operators and other institutional investors in 25 Table of Contents identifying investment opportunities. Real estate investment assets are often obtained through a competitive bidding process. Many of our competitors may have advantages over us and our Manager. Competition may result in higher prices for healthcare mortgage loans and real estate related assets, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs. In addition, competition for desirable investments could delay the investment of our equity capital in desirable assets, which may, in turn, reduce earnings per share and may negatively affect our ability to maintain our dividend distribution. There can be no assurance that we will achieve investment results that will allow any specified level of cash distribution. We may incur borrowing costs related to any warehouse lines of credit and repurchase agreements we may obtain, which could harm our results of operations or financial condition. We have financed the acquisition of certain investments and intend to finance additional investments with warehouse lines of credit and repurchase agreements. In addition, we may engage in various types of securitizations in order to finance our loan originations. The amount of borrowings we employ or intend to employ depends on, among other factors, the amount of our equity capital. Our borrowing costs under any warehouse lines of credit and repurchase agreements we may obtain generally will be adjustable and will correspond to floating interest rates, such as LIBOR or a Treasury index, plus or minus a margin. The margins on these borrowings over or under any interest rate indexes may vary depending upon a number of factors, including, without limitation: • the movement of interest rates; • the availability of financing in the market; and • the value and liquidity of our mortgage loans and real estate related assets. An increase in the interest rates of these borrowings could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Borrowings from warehouse lines of credit and repurchase agreements are subject to restrictive conditions that can be changed at the discretion of the lender, including margin call requirements, changes in underwriting standards applied to advance rates, and termination of the credit facility. Our ability to finance our operations and grow our business is dependent upon the availability of credit on commercially acceptable terms, including the use of warehouse lines of credit and repurchase agreements. The ability to draw down on warehouse lines depends on many factors, including the unilateral ability of lenders to require more collateral and change underwriting standards. Should we not be able to draw credit on existing lines, experience reduced availability of credit on existing lines, face margin calls and other constraints on credit availability at the subjective discretion of our lenders, or fail to find additional sources of credit on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to continue to operate profitably, make payments on our existing obligations, fund commitments by us, invest in new opportunities to grow, or make dividend payments. Our investments in loans are not highly liquid. Any need to sell these investments to meet margin calls under our warehouse line or to maintain liquidity may result in loss. Investing in healthcare-related commercial mortgage debt is transacted through an over-the- counter market with minimal pricing transparency. Loans are infrequently traded and market quotes are not widely available. Should we be forced to sell any loans to meet any margin calls or to maintain liquidity, we may have to sell at prices below our carrying value which would result in losses. We may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and to make distributions to our stockholders. As a REIT, we generally are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year to our stockholders and we intend to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders such that we distribute all or substantially all of our taxable income each year, subject to certain adjustments and 26 Table of Contents sufficient available cash. However we have not established a minimum dividend payment level, and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this document. In the event of a downturn in our operating results and financial performance, unanticipated declines in the value of our asset portfolio, or prolonged dislocations in the credit markets, we may be unable to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders. The timing and amount of our dividends are in the sole discretion of our board of directors, and will depend upon, among other factors, our earnings, financial condition, credit availability, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other tax considerations and capital expenditure requirements, in each case as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. Among the factors that could adversely affect our results of operations and impair our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders are: • the profitability of the investment of the net proceeds of our initial public offering; • our ability to make profitable investments; • defaults in our asset portfolio or decreases in the value of our portfolio; • the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results my vary from estimates; and • our ability to borrow from existing credit facilities or to obtain additional sources of credit on commercially acceptable terms. A change in any one of these factors could affect our ability to pay dividends. If we are not able to comply with the restrictive covenants and financial ratios contained in our credit facilities, our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders and maintain our REIT qualification may also be impaired. We cannot assure you that we will be able to pay dividends to our stockholders in the future or that the level of any dividends we pay will increase over time. In addition, dividends paid to stockholders are generally taxable to our stockholders as ordinary income, but a portion of our dividends may be designated by us as long-term capital gains to the extent they are attributable to capital gain income recognized by us, or may constitute a return of capital to the extent they exceed our earnings and profits as determined for tax purposes. Distributions in excess of our earnings and profits generally may be tax-free to the extent of each stockholder’s basis in our common stock and generally may be treated as capital gain if they are in excess of basis. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests. Our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. In addition, our charter permits us to agree to indemnify our present and former directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each present or former director or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. Compliance with our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations. We intend to conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the ‘‘Investment Company Act’’). We 27 Table of Contents intend to qualify for an exemption from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, which generally means that at least 55% of our portfolio must be comprised of qualifying real estate assets and at least another 25% of our portfolio must be comprised of additional qualifying real estate assets and real estate-related assets. To comply with these regulations, we may from time to time acquire direct interests in real estate or buy or originate whole mortgage loans and participations in whole mortgage loans, provided that we control the right to foreclose the mortgage securing the loan in the event of a default, certain B Notes and other qualifying assets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain this exemption from registration. Further, we may not be able to invest in sufficient qualifying real estate assets and/or real estate-related assets and future revisions of the Investment Company Act or further guidance from the staff of the SEC may cause us to lose our exem ption or force us to re-evaluate our portfolio and our business strategy. Such changes may prevent us from operating our business successfully. Our subsidiaries will be subject to similar restrictions under the Investment Company Act as described in this Form 10-K so that we do not come within the definition of an ‘‘investment company’’ under the Investment Company Act. These restrictions also would limit the types of business in which we may engage, as described in this Form 10-K. A failure to satisfy these requirements could materially and adversely affect our business. As part of our Manager’s obligations under the management agreement, our Manager agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate with our efforts to conduct our operations so as not to cause us to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act and to refrain from any action that, in our Manager’s judgment, would adversely affect our status as an entity that is not regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Failure to maintain this exemption would require us to significantly restructure our business plan. For example, because affiliate transactions generally are prohibited under the Investment Company Act, we would not be able to enter into transactions with any of our affiliates if we fail to maintain our exemption and may be required to terminate our management agreement and any other agreements with affiliates, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our b usiness. If the management agreement is terminated, it could constitute an event of default under our credit facilities and lenders may then have the right to terminate these facilities and their obligation to advance funds to us to finance our future investments. In addition, we may not be able to identify a replacement manager on favorable terms if at all. Rapid changes in the market value or income from our real estate-related investments or non-qualifying assets may make it more difficult for us to maintain our status as a REIT or exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the market value or income potential of real estate-related investments declines as a result of a change in interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT status or exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or the decline in qualifying REIT income occurs quickly, it may be especially difficult to maintain REIT status. These risks may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of both real estate and non-real estate assets that we may own. We may have to make investment decisions that we would not make absent the REIT and Investment Company Act considerations. A general economic slowdown could have a material adverse effect on our business. Periods of economic slowdown or recession may be accompanied by declines in real estate values. Delinquencies, foreclosures and losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. Because a portion of the investments we make may be subordinate to other creditors, the rate of delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on our healthcare-related real estate investments and mortgage loans could be higher than those generally experienced in the mortgage lending industry. If our loans fall into and remain in default, we may have to foreclose and may incur substantial losses. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more investments or properties underlying foreclosed investments in our portfolio may be limited. In addition, any material 28 Table of Contents decline in real estate values would increase the loan-to-value ratio of loans that we have previously extended, weaken our collateral coverage and increase the possibility of a loss in the event of a borrower default. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses is likely to materially and adversely affect our ability to finance loans in the future. Furthermore, various credit-related events have caused significant uncertainty in the global financial markets. While the long-term effects of these events and their potential consequences are unknown, they could have a material adverse effect on general economic conditions, consumer confidence and market liquidity. Liability relating to environmental matters may decrease the value of the underlying properties. Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of cleanup of certain hazardous substances released on or under its property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect an owner’s ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. To the extent that an owner of an underlying property becomes liable for cleanup costs, the ability of the owner to make debt payments may be reduced, which in turn may adversely affect the value of the relevant mortgage asset held by us. We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. Our business is highly dependent on the communications and information systems of our Manager. Any failure or interruption of our Manager’s systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. We are exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate their internal control over financial reporting. We will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires us to assess and attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, and requires our independent registered public accounting firm to opine as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 will result in us incurring significant expenses through 2008, and possibly beyond. Even with those expenditures, we may not receive an unqualified opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm with regard to our internal control over financial reporting. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the real estate industry, our profitability and the market for our common stock. The terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 disrupted the U.S. financial markets, including the real estate capital markets, and negatively impacted the U.S. economy in general. Any future terrorist attacks, the anticipation of any such attacks, the consequences of any military or other response by the U.S. and its allies, and other armed conflicts could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. The economic impact of any such future events could also adversely affect the credit quality of some of our loans and investments and the property underlying our securities. We may suffer losses as a result of the adverse impact of any future attacks and these losses may adversely impact our performance and revenues and may result in volatility of the value of our securities. A prolonged economic slowdown, a recession or declining real estate values could impair the performance of our investments and harm our financial condition, increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. We cannot predict the severity of the effect that potential future terrorist attacks would have on our business. Losses resulting from these types of events may not be fully insurable. 29 Table of Contents In addition, the events of September 11 created significant uncertainty regarding the ability of real estate owners of high profile assets to obtain insurance coverage protecting against terrorist attacks at commercially reasonable rates, if at all. With the enactment of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, or TRIA, and the subsequent enactment of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005, which extended TRIA through the end of 2007, insurers must make terrorism insurance available under their property and casualty insurance policies, but this legislation does not regulate the pricing of such insurance. The absence of affordable insurance coverage may adversely affect the general real estate lending market, lending volume and the market’s overall liquidity and may reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us and the pace at which we are able to make investments. If the properties in which we invest are unable to obtain affordable insurance coverage, the value of those investments could decline, and in the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose all or a portion of our investment. Risks Relating to the Healthcare Industry Our investments are expected to be concentrated in healthcare facilities and healthcare-related assets, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were more diversified. We intend to acquire and lease healthcare facilities as well as provide financing for healthcare businesses. A downturn in the healthcare industry could negatively affect our borrowers’ or tenants’ ability to make payments to us and, consequently, our ability to meet debt service obligations or make distributions to our stockholders. These adverse effects could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of healthcare facilities. Furthermore, many of our tenants and borrowers in the healthcare industry are heavily dependant on reimbursements from the Medicare and Medicaid programs for the bulk of their revenues. Our tenants’ and borrowers’ dependence on reimbursement revenues could cause us to suffer losses in several instances. • If our tenants or borrowers fail to comply with operational covenants and other regulations imposed by these programs, they may lose their eligibility to continue to receive reimbursements under the program or incur monetary penalties, either of which could result in the tenant’s or borrower’s inability to make scheduled payments to us. • If reimbursement rates do not keep pace with increasing costs of services to eligible recipients, or funding levels decrease as a result of increasing pressures from Medicare and Medicaid to control healthcare costs, our tenants and borrowers may not be able to generate adequate revenues to satisfy their obligations to us. • If a healthcare tenant or borrower were to default on its loan, we would be unable to invoke our rights to the pledged receivables directly as the law prohibits payment of amounts owed to healthcare providers under the Medicare and Medicaid programs to be directed to any entity other than the actual providers. Consequently, we would need a court order to force collection directly against these governmental payors. There is no assurance that we would be successful in obtaining this type of court order. The healthcare industry continues to face various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure on healthcare providers to control or reduce costs, and increasing competition for patients among healthcare providers in areas with significant unused capacity. We believe that certain of our tenants or borrowers will continue to experience a shift in payor mix away from fee-for-service payors, resulting in an increase in the percentage of revenues attributable to managed care payors, government payors and general industry trends that include pressures to control healthcare costs. Pressures to control healthcare costs and a shift away from traditional health insurance reimbursement have resulted in an increase in the number of patients whose healthcare coverage is provided under managed care plans, such as health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations. In addition, due to the aging of the population and the expansion of governmental payor programs, we anticipate that there will be a marked increase in the number of 30 Table of Contents patients reliant on healthcare coverage provided by governmental payors. These changes could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of some or all of our tenants or borrowers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and existing and new laws or regulations, changes to existing laws or regulations, loss of licensure or certification or failure to obtain licensure or certification could result in the inability of our borrowers or tenants to make payments to us. The healthcare industry is highly regulated by federal, state and local laws, and is directly affected by federal conditions of participation, state licensing requirements, facility inspections, state and federal reimbursement policies, regulations concerning capital and other expenditures, certification requirements and other such laws, regulations and rules. In addition, establishment of healthcare facilities and transfers of operations of healthcare facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for establishment of or transfers of other types of commercial operations and real estate. Sanctions for failure to comply with these regulations and laws include, but are not limited to, loss of or inability to obtain licensure, fines and loss of or inability to obtain certification to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as potential criminal penalties. The failure of a tenant or borrower to comply with such laws, requirements and regulations could affect its ability to establish or continue its operation of the facility or facilities and could adversely affect the tenant’s or borrower’s ability to make payments to us which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, restrictions and delays in transferring the operations of healthcare facilities, in obtaining new third-party payor contracts including Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements, and in receiving licensure and certification approval from appropriate state and federal agencies by new tenants may affect the ability of our tenants or borrowers to make payments to us. Furthermore, these matters may affect new tenants’ or borrowers’ ability to obtain reimbursement for services rendered, which could adversely affect the ability of our tenants’ or borrowers’ to pay rent to us and to pay principal and int erest on their loans from us. Our tenants and borrowers are subject to fraud and abuse laws, the violation of which by a tenant or borrower may jeopardize the tenant’s or borrower’s ability to make payments to us. The federal government and numerous state governments have passed laws and regulations that attempt to eliminate healthcare fraud and abuse by prohibiting business arrangements that induce patient referrals or the ordering of specific ancillary services. In addition, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 strengthened the federal anti-fraud and abuse laws to provide for stiffer penalties for violations. Violations of these laws may result in the imposition of criminal and civil penalties, including possible exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs. Imposition of any of these penalties upon any of our tenants or borrowers could jeopardize any tenant’s or borrower’s ability to operate a facility or to make payments, thereby potentially adversely affecting us. In the past several years, federal and state governments have significantly increased investigation and enforcement activity to detect and eliminate fraud and abuse in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, legislation has been adopted at both state and federal levels, which severely restricts the ability of physicians to refer patients to entities in which they have a financial interest. It is anticipated that the trend toward increased investigation and enforcement activity in the area of fraud and abuse, as well as self-referrals, will continue in future years and could adversely affect our prospective tenants or borrowers and their operations, and in turn their ability to make payments to us. Operators are faced with increased litigation and rising insurance costs that may affect their ability to make their lease or mortgage payments. In some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at healthcare facilities, and these groups have brought litigation against operators. Also, in several instances, private litigation by patients has succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. The effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs of monitoring 31 Table of Contents and reporting quality of care compliance incurred by operators. In addition, the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment affecting the operations of healthcare facilities continues. Continued cost increases could cause our operators to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments, potentially decreasing our revenue and increasing our collection and litigation costs. Moreover, to the extent we are required to take back the affected facilities, our revenue from those facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time. Transfers of healthcare facilities generally require regulatory approvals, and alternative uses of healthcare facilities are limited. Because transfers of healthcare facilities may be subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate, there may be delays in transferring operations of our facilities to successor operators or we may be prohibited from transferring operations to a successor operator. In addition, substantially all of the properties that we may acquire or that will secure our loans will be healthcare facilities that may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare related uses. If we are unable to transfer properties at times opportune to us, our revenue and operations may suffer. Risks Related to Our Investments We may change our targeted investments and investment guidelines without stockholder consent. We may change our targeted investments and investment guidelines at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, our current or planned investments. A change in our targeted investments or investment guidelines may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, all of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to you. We rely on external sources of capital to fund future capital needs, and if our access to such capital is difficult or on commercially unreasonable terms, we may not be able to meet maturing commitments or make future investments necessary to grow our business. In order to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, we are required, among other things, to distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income. Because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with investments, from cash retained from operations. As a result, we rely on external sources of capital. We do not receive credit or other financial support from CIT. If we are unable to obtain needed capital at all or obtain it only on unfavorable terms, we might not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business, or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature, which could negatively affect the ratings of our debt and even, in extreme circumstances, affect our ability to continue operations. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including: • general market conditions; • the market’s perception of our growth potential; • our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; • the market price of the shares of our capital stock; and • the market’s view of the quality of our assets. We use leverage to finance our current investments and intend to leverage future investments, which may negatively affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution. We leverage our current investments through the use of a warehouse facility. We intend to use leverage through the use of our existing warehouse facility, if available, to acquire additional investments and also plan on obtaining additional sources of credit such as bank credit facilities, repurchase agreements, secured loans, and securitizations, including the issuance of CDOs or CMBS, 32 Table of Contents loans to entities in which we hold, directly or indirectly, interests in pools of assets and other borrowings should the securitized markets stabilize. While our investment guidelines state that our leverage will generally not exceed 80% of the total value of our investments, our charter and bylaws do not limit the amount of leverage we may use. The percentage of leverage will vary depending on our ability to obtain credit facilities and the lenders’ and rating agencies’ estimate of the stability of the investments’ cash flow. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. Our debt service payments will reduce cash flow available for distributions to stockholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy the obligations. We may leverage certain of our assets through repurchase agreements. A decrease in the value of these assets may lead to margin calls which we will have to satisfy. We may not have the funds available to satisfy any such margin calls and may have to sell assets at a time when we might not otherwise choose to do so. Further, credit facility providers and warehouse facility providers may require us to maintain a certain amount of uninvested cash or to set aside unleveraged assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position which would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on assets. In the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. Since real estate investments are illiquid, we may not be able to sell properties when we desire to do so. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to vary our owned real estate portfolio promptly in response to changes in the real estate market. This inability to respond to changes in the performance of our owned real estate investments could adversely affect our ability to service our debt. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, costs and terms of financing; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning and other ordinances and costs of compliance with laws and regulations; • the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; • changes in operating expenses; and • civil unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. Competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop through a partner, suitable healthcare facilities at a favorable cost or to raise funds for such acquisitions or development activities, and we may consequently be unable to continue to grow through these activities. Growing through acquisitions is a part of our business strategy and requires us to identify suitable candidates that meet our acquisition criteria. The acquisition, development and financing of healthcare facilities at favorable costs are highly competitive. When we attempt to finance, acquire or develop properties, we face competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom have greater resources and lower costs of capital than us. Increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals. If we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare facilities at favorable prices, or if we are unable to finance such acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, results of operations and f inancial condition may be materially adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents Because of the unique and specific improvements required for healthcare facilities, we may be required to incur substantial renovation costs to make certain of our properties suitable for other operators and tenants, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Healthcare facilities are typically highly customized and may not be easily adapted to non-healthcare-related uses. The improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use, such as upgrading electrical, gas and plumbing infrastructure, are costly and often times tenant-specific. A new or replacement operator or tenant may require different features in a property, depending on that operator’s or tenant’s particular operations. If a current operator or tenant is unable to pay rent and vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property for a new tenant, or for multiple tenants with varying infrastructure requirements, before we are able to re-lease the space to another tenant. Consequently, our properties may not be suitable for lease to traditional office or other healthcare tenants without significant expenditures or renovations, which costs may materially adversely affect our business, results of operat ions and financial condition. Our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and REIT status. We intend to acquire and may develop properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. We currently have two joint ventures that are not consolidated with our financial statements. Our aggregate investments in these joint ventures represented approximately 23% of our total assets at December 31, 2007. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to the risks that: • we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes; • our joint venture partners could have investment goals that are not consistent with our investment objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments; • our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; • our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues; and • income and assets owned through joint-venture entities may affect our ability to satisfy requirements related to maintaining our REIT status. Preferred equity investments involve a greater risk of loss than conventional debt financing. We have invested in preferred equity investments and may invest in additional preferred equity investments. Our preferred equity investments involve a higher degree of risk than conventional debt financing due to a variety of factors, including that such investments are subordinate to all of the issuer’s loans and are not secured by property underlying the investment. Furthermore, should the issuer default on our investment, we would only be able to proceed against the entity in which we have an interest, and not the property underlying our investment. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. Mezzanine loans involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by the same properties. We may invest in mezzanine loans in the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests of an entity that owns (directly or indirectly) the interest in the entity owning the property. This type of investment involves 34 Table of Contents a higher degree of risk than a long-term senior mortgage loan secured by a first mortgage on the same real property because the investment may become unsecured or otherwise impaired as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. B Notes in which we invest may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us. We invest in B Notes. A B Note is a mortgage loan typically (i) secured by a first mortgage on a single commercial property or group of related properties and (ii) subordinated to an A Note secured by the same first mortgage on the same collateral. Because of the senior position of holders of A Notes, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for B Note holders after payment to the A Note holders. Since each transaction is privately negotiated, B Notes can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of B Notes to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments. We cannot predict the terms of each B Note investment. B Notes may not be liquid and, consequently, we may be unable to dispose of underperforming or non-performing B Notes. The higher risks associated with a subordinate position in any B Note investment we make could subject us to increased ri sk of losses. Bridge loans involve a greater risk of loss than conventional mortgage loans. We may provide bridge loans secured by first lien mortgages on a property to borrowers who are typically seeking short-term capital to be used in an acquisition or refinancing of real estate. The borrower has usually identified an undervalued asset that has been undermanaged or is located in a recovering market. If the market in which the asset is located fails to recover according to the borrower’s projections, or if the borrower fails to improve the quality of the asset’s management or the value of the asset, the borrower may not receive a sufficient return on the asset to satisfy the bridge loan, and we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, owners usually borrow funds under a conventional mortgage loan to repay a bridge loan. We may therefore be dependent on a borrower’s ability to obtain permanent financing to repay our bridge loan, which could depend on market conditions and other factors. Bridge loans are also subject to risks of borrower defaults, bankruptcies, fraud, losses and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. In the event of any default under bridge loans held by us, we could be subject to increased risk of loss. Our investments in debt securities are subject to specific risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities and to the general risks of investing in subordinated real estate securities. We may invest in debt securities of healthcare-related issuers. Our investments in debt securities involve specific risks. REITs generally are required to invest substantially in real estate or real estate-related assets and are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate-related investments discussed in this Form 10-K. Our investments in debt securities are subject to risks that include: • delinquency and foreclosure, and losses in the event thereof; • the dependence upon the successful operation of and net income from real property; • risks generally incident to interests in real property; and • risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. Debt securities are generally unsecured and may also be subordinated to other obligations of the issuer. We may also invest in debt securities that are rated below investment grade. As a result, investments in debt securities are also subject to risks of: 35 Table of Contents • limited liquidity in the secondary trading market; • substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates; • subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer; • the operation of mandatory sinking fund or call/redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest premature redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets; • the possibility that earnings of the debt security issuer may be insufficient to meet its debt service; and • the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer of such debt securities during periods of rising interest rates and economic downturn. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding debt securities and the ability of the issuers thereof to repay principal and interest. Construction loans involve a high risk of loss if a borrower fails to complete the construction of a project or if we are unsuccessful in raising the unfunded portion of the loan. We may invest in construction loans for healthcare facilities. If we are unsuccessful in raising the unfunded portion of a construction project, there could be adverse consequences associated with the loan, including a loss of the value in the property securing the loan if the construction is not completed and the borrower is unable to raise funds to complete it from other sources; a borrower claim against us for failure to perform under the loan documents; increased costs to the borrower that the borrower is unable to pay; a bankruptcy filing by the borrower; and abandonment by the borrower of the collateral for the loan. Further, other non-cash flow assets such as land loans and pre-development loans may fail to qualify for construction financing and may need to be liquidated based on the ‘‘as-is’’ value as opposed to a valuation based on the ability to construct certain real property improvements. The occurrence of such events may have a negative impact on our results of operations. Other loan types may also include unfunded future obligations that could present similar risks. We may acquire other companies as a means of growing our business and will need to integrate them into our existing business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired companies or they fail to perform as expected, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Successful integration of the operations of companies we may acquire will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel and to eliminate redundancies and costs. Acquisitions through mergers also pose some risks, including unanticipated liabilities, unexpected costs and the diversion of management’s attention to the integration of our operations with those of the target companies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate the operations of the companies that we may acquire in the future without encountering difficulties. Potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include the loss of key personnel, the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the acquired entity, or possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Estimated cost savings in connection with acquisitions are typically projected to come from various areas that our management identifies through the due diligence and integration planning process; yet, our potential target companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected. Inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. Similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use or market position. If we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to any companies to potentially be acquired, we might not achieve the economic benefits we expect from our acquisitions, and this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 36 Table of Contents Delays in obtaining or securing long-term financing will extend our default risk exposure. We intend to leverage our investments by borrowing. Such borrowings will take the form of warehouse facilities, secured asset-specific debt, bank credit facilities and repurchase agreements. Should the securitized debt markets stabilize, we also intend to enter into securitization and other long-term financing transactions and to use the proceeds from such transactions to reduce the outstanding balances under our warehouse facilities, bank credit facilities and repurchase agreements. While we intend to retain the equity component, or below investment grade component, of such securitizations and, therefore, still have exposure to any investments included in such securitizations, our inability to enter into such transactions will increase our overall exposure to risks associated with ownership of such investments, including the risk of default, meaning that lenders retain a general claim against us as an entity. Warehouse facilities, bank credit facilities and rep urchase agreements generally include a recourse component. Further, such borrowings may also provide the lender with the ability to make margin calls and may limit the length of time which any given asset may be used as eligible collateral. Our risk in a securitization or other long-term secured financing will generally be limited to the equity or below investment grade component which we retain. Our investments will be subject to risks particular to real property. Our loans will generally be directly or indirectly secured by a lien on real property (or the equity interests in an entity that owns real property) that, upon the occurrence of a default on the loan, could result in our acquiring ownership of the property. In addition, we may make investments in the direct ownership of real property. Investments in real property or real property-related assets are subject to varying degrees of risk. The value of each property is affected significantly by its ability to generate cash flow and net income, which in turn depends on the amount of rental or other income that can be generated net of expenses required to be incurred with respect to the property. The rental or other income from these properties may be adversely affected by a number of risks, including: • acts of God, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; • adverse changes in national and local economic and real estate conditions (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics); • an oversupply of (or a reduction in demand for) space in properties in geographic areas where our investments are concentrated and the attractiveness of particular properties to prospective tenants; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance therewith and the potential for liability under applicable laws; and • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions such as indoor mold; and the potential for uninsured or underinsured property losses. Many expenditures associated with properties (such as operating expenses and capital expenditures) cannot be reduced when there is a reduction in income from the properties. Adverse changes in these factors may have a material adverse effect on the ability of our borrowers to pay their loans, as well as on the value that we can realize from properties we own or acquire, and may reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of our facility operators could significantly delay our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new operators. Our financial position and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by financial difficulties experienced by any of our major operators, including bankruptcy, insolvency or a general downturn in the business, or in the event any of our major operators do not renew or extend their relationship with us as their lease terms expire. 37 Table of Contents The healthcare industry is highly competitive and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. Our operators are subject to competition from other healthcare providers that provide similar services. The profitability of healthcare facilities depends upon several factors, including the number of physicians using the healthcare facilities or referring patients there, competitive systems of healthcare delivery and the size and composition of the population in the surrounding area. Private, federal and state payment programs and the effect of other laws and regulations may also have a significant influence on the revenues and income of the properties. If our operators are not competitive with other healthcare providers and are unable to generate income, they may be unable to make rent and loan payments to us, which could adversely affect our cash flow and financial performance and condition. We are exposed to the risk that our operators may not be able to meet their obligations, which may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. The bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization and the right to terminate an investment, evict an operator, demand immediate repayment and other remedies under our leases and loans may not protect us. An operator in bankruptcy may be able to restrict our ability to collect unpaid rents or interest during the bankruptcy proceeding. Volatility of values of commercial properties may adversely affect our loans and investments. Commercial property values and net operating income derived from such properties are subject to volatility and may be affected adversely by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, national, regional and local economic conditions (which may be affected adversely by industry slowdowns and other factors); changes or continued weakness in specific industry segments; construction quality, age and design; demographics; retroactive changes to building or similar codes; and increases in operating expenses (such as energy costs). In the event a property’s net operating income decreases, a borrower may have difficulty repaying our loan, which could result in losses to us. In addition, decreases in property values reduce the value of the collateral and the potential proceeds available to a borrower to repay our loans, which could also cause us to suffer losses. Insurance on the real estate underlying our investments may not cover all losses. There are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, terrorism or acts of war that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, including terrorism or acts of war, also might make the insurance proceeds insufficient to repair or replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected real property. Any uninsured loss could result in both loss of cash flow from and the asset value of the affected property. Our due diligence may not reveal all of a borrower’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before investing in a company or making a loan to a borrower, we will assess the strength and skills of such entity’s management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we will rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. There can be no assurance that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. We may invest in the equity securities of CDOs and such investments involve significant risks, including that CDO equity receives distributions from the CDO only if the CDO generates enough income to first pay the holders of its debt securities and its expenses. We may invest in the equity securities of CDOs. A CDO is a special purpose vehicle that purchases collateral (such as real estate-related investments, bank loans or asset-backed securities) 38 Table of Contents that is expected to generate a stream of interest or other income. The CDO issues various classes of securities that participate in that income stream, typically one or more classes of debt instruments and a class of equity securities. The equity is usually entitled to all of the income generated by the CDO after the CDO pays all of the interest due on the debt securities and its expenses. However, there will be little or no income available to the CDO equity if there are defaults by the obligors under the underlying collateral and those defaults exceed a certain amount. In that event, the value of our investment in the CDOs equity could decrease substantially. In addition, the equity securities of CDOs are generally illiquid, and because they represent a leveraged investment in the CDO’s assets, the value of the equity securities will generally have greater fluctuations than the values of the underlying collateral. We have entered into a warehouse agreement in connection with securitizations and may seek other warehouse agreements. If the securitization is not consummated, the warehoused collateral may be sold and we must bear any loss resulting from the purchase price of the collateral exceeding the sale price. In connection with securitizations, we have entered into a warehouse agreement with Column Financial, Inc., an affiliate of Credit Suisse, one of the underwriters of the Company’s initial public offering, and may enter into additional agreements with investment banks or other financial institutions, pursuant to which the institution will initially finance the purchase of the collateral that will be intended to be transferred to the term securitization. Our Manager will select the collateral. If the securitization transaction is not consummated, the institution could liquidate the warehoused collateral and we would then have to pay any amount by which the original purchase price of the collateral exceeds its sale price, subject to negotiated caps, if any, on our exposure. In addition, regardless of whether the securitization transaction is consummated, if any of the warehoused collateral is sold before the consummation, we will have to bear any resulting lo ss on the sale. We cannot be certain that we would in fact be able to complete any securitization transaction. We may not be able to acquire eligible investments for a securitization or other long-term secured financing issuance or may not be able to issue securities on attractive terms, either of which may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. Should the securitized debt markets stabilize and reopen, we may acquire debt instruments and finance them on a non-recourse long-term basis, such as through the issuance of securitizations (CDOs or CMBS). During the period that we are acquiring these assets, we intend to finance our purchases through relatively short-term credit facilities. We intend to use short-term warehouse lines of credit to finance the acquisition of instruments until a sufficient quantity is accumulated, at which time we may refinance these lines through a securitization, such as a CDO or CMBS issuance, or other long-term financing. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to acquire, during the period that our warehouse facility is available, a sufficient amount of eligible assets to maximize the efficiency of a securitization issuance. In addition, conditions in the capital markets may make the issuance of a securitization less attractive to us when we have accumulated a sufficient pool of collateral. If we are unable to issue a securitization to finance these assets, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or otherwise to liquidate the assets. Interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect the value of our assets, net income and common stock. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control. Interest rate fluctuations present a variety of risks, including the risk of a mismatch between asset yields and borrowing rates, variances in the yield curve and fluctuating prepayment rates and may adversely affect our income and value of our common stock. Our portfolio of mortgage loans is comprised of variable rate instruments, each of which bears interest at a stated spread over one-month LIBOR and is funded principally by equity. In periods of declining interest rates, our interest income on loans will be adversely affected. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code exclude income on asset hedges from qualifying as income derived from real estate activities. Accordingly, our ability to hedge interest rate risk on a portfolio of assets funded principally by equity is limited. 39 Table of Contents Prepayment rates can increase, adversely affecting yields. The value of our assets may be affected by prepayment rates on mortgage loans. Prepayment rates on loans are influenced by changes in current interest rates on adjustable-rate and fixed-rate mortgage loans and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control. Consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty and no strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment or other such risks. In periods of declining interest rates, prepayments on loans generally increase. If general interest rates decline as well, the proceeds of such prepayments received during such periods are likely to be reinvested by us in assets yielding less than the yields on the assets that were prepaid. In addition, the market value of the assets may, because of the risk of prepayment, benefit less than other fixed income securities from declining interest rates. Under certain interest rate and prepayment scenarios we may fail to recoup fully our co st of acquisition of certain investments. A portion of our investments require payments of prepayment fees upon prepayment or maturity of the investment. We may not be able to structure future investments that contain similar prepayment penalties. Some of our assets may not have prepayment protection. The lack of liquidity in our investments may harm our business. We may, subject to maintaining our REIT qualification and our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act, make investments in securities that are not publicly traded. These securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. We may engage in hedging transactions that may limit our gains or result in losses. Subject to maintaining our REIT qualification, we may use derivatives to hedge our liabilities and this has certain risks, including: • losses on a hedge position may reduce the cash available for distribution to stockholders and such losses may exceed the amount invested in such instruments; • counterparties to a hedging arrangement could default on their obligations; and • we may have to pay certain costs, such as transaction or brokerage fees. The REIT rules impose certain restrictions on our ability to utilize hedges, swaps, and other types of derivatives to hedge our liabilities. We may use these hedging instruments in our risk management strategy to limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations. A hedge may not be effective in eliminating all of the risks inherent in any particular position. Our profitability may be adversely affected during any period as a result of the use of derivatives. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument lengthens and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our 40 Table of Contents resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. It may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances (e.g., the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the derivative contract). The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. Federal Income Tax Risks Loss of our status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our common stock. If we lose our status as a REIT, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: • We would be subject to federal income tax as a regular corporation and could face substantial tax liability; • We would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • We also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; • Corporate subsidiaries, and possibly our taxable mortgage pool securitizations, could be treated as separate taxable corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes; • Any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of, and trading prices for, our common stock; and • Unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earning and profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 15%) with respect to distributions. We would no longer be required to pay dividends to maintain REIT status. Our ability to satisfy certain REIT qualification tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Moreover, the proper classification of 41 Table of Contents an instrument as debt or equity for federal income tax purposes and the tax treatment of participation interests that we hold in mortgage loans and mezzanine loans may be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the application of the REIT qualification requirements as described below. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or other issuers will not cause a violation of the REIT requirements. Furthermore, as a result of these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business strategy. Although we believe that we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes. The 90% distribution requirement under the REIT tax rules will decrease our liquidity and may force us to engage in transactions that may not be consistent with our business plan. To comply with the 90% REIT taxable income distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid a nondeductible 4% excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws, we must make distributions to our stockholders. Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. This may be due to the timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other han d. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions also may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In the event that timing differences occur or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements. This may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations. Taking such action may not be consistent with our business plan, may increase our costs and may limit our ability to grow. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. New legislation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. The present federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. The federal income tax rules that affect REITs constantly are under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause us to change our investments and commitments and affect the tax consequences of an investment in us. 42 Table of Contents Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum tax rate applicable to income from ‘‘qualified dividends’’ payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates has been reduced by legislation to 15% through the end of 2010. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. The stock ownership limit imposed by the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and our charter may restrict our business combination opportunities. To qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year after our first year in which we qualify as a REIT. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless an exemption is granted by our board of directors, no person (as defined to include entities) may own more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our common or capital stock. In addition, our charter generally prohibits beneficial or constructive ownership of shares of our capital stock by any person that owns, actually or constructively, an interest in any of our tenants that would cause us to own, actually or c onstructively, more than a 9.9% interest in any of our tenants. Our board of directors may grant an exemption in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine. Our board of directors has granted a limited exemption from the ownership limitation to CIT Holding, our Manager and CIT, but only to the extent that such affiliate’s ownership of our stock could not reasonably be expected to cause us to violate the REIT requirements (in which case such affiliate either would be required to sell some of our stock or would become subject to the excess share provisions of our charter, in each case to the extent necessary to enable us to satisfy the REIT requirements). These ownership limitations in our charter are common in REIT charters and are intended to assist us in complying with the tax law requirements and to minimize administrative burdens. However, these ownership limits might also delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, including mortgage recording taxes. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our non-healthcare assets through taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs, or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate-level income tax at regular rates. We will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain amounts if the economic arrangements among our tenants, our TRS and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements with respect to our TRS limits our flexibility in operating or managing certain properties through our TRS. A TRS may not directly or indirectly operate or manage a healthcare facility. For REIT qualification purposes, the definition of a ‘‘healthcare facility’’ means a hospital, nursing facility, 43 Table of Contents assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and which, immediately before the termination, expiration, default, or breach of the lease of or mortgage secured by such facility, was operated by a provider of such services which was eligible for participation in the Medicare program under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act with respect to such facility. If the IRS were to treat a subsidiary corporation of ours as directly or indirectly operating or managing a healthcare facility, such subsidiary would not qualify as a TRS, which could jeopardize our status as a REIT under the REIT gross asset tests. Although we currently do not plan to operate healthcare facilities, proposed legislation would allow TRSs to operate qualified healthcare properties, provided that such properties are operated by an eligible independent contractor. This legislation is merely proposed and has n ot been enacted, and no assurances can be provided that it will be enacted as currently proposed or at all. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we continually must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income, asset-diversification or distribution requirements for maintaining our status as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter , we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT status, otherwise, we will suffer adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our status as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute ‘‘gross income’’ for purposes of the 95% gross income test, but would generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, provided 44 Table of Contents that certain requirements are met. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result, we might have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through one of our domestic TRSs. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our domestic TRSs would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. The ‘‘taxable mortgage pool’’ rules may increase the taxes that we or our stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations. Certain of our securitizations could be considered to result in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, provided that we own 100% of the equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool, we generally would not be adversely affected by the characterization of the securitization as a taxable mortgage pool. Certain categories of stockholders, however, such as foreign stockholders eligible for treaty or other benefits, stockholders with net operating losses, and certain tax-exempt stockholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income from us that is attributable to the taxable mortgage pool. In addition, to the extent that our stock is owned by tax-exempt ‘‘disqualified organizations,’’ such as certain government-related entities and charitable remainder trusts that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, unde r recently issued IRS guidance, we will incur a corporate-level tax on a portion of our income from the taxable mortgage pool. In that case, we are authorized to reduce and intend to reduce the amount of our distributions to any disqualified organization whose stock ownership gave rise to the tax. Moreover, we would be precluded from selling equity interests in these securitizations to outside investors, or selling any debt securities issued in connection with these securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for federal income tax purposes. These limitations may prevent us from using certain techniques to maximize our returns from securitization transactions. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of syndicating and securitizing mortgage loans, that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, that are held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to syndicate, dispose of, or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans at the REIT level and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions, even though the sales or structures otherwise might be beneficial to us. We may not be able to find a suitable tenant for our healthcare property, which could reduce our cash flow. We may not be able to find another qualified tenant for a property if we have to replace a tenant. Accordingly, if we are unable to find a qualified tenant for one or more of our properties, rental payments could cease which could have a significant impact on our operating results and financial condition, in which case we could be required to sell such properties or terminate our status as a REIT. While the REIT rules regarding foreclosure property allow us to acquire certain qualified healthcare property pursuant to foreclosure proceedings or as the result of the termination or expiration of a lease (including by reason of default, or the imminence of default, on the lease) of such property and, in connection with such acquisition, to operate a qualified healthcare facility through, and in certain circumstances derive income from, an independent contractor for a period of two years (or, depending on the circumstances of the acquisition of such property, three y ears or up to six years if extensions are granted), once such period ends, the REIT rules prohibit the direct or 45 Table of Contents indirect operation or management of such facility through our TRS. If the IRS were to treat our TRS as directly or indirectly operating or managing a qualified healthcare facility, such subsidiary would not qualify as a TRS, which could jeopardize our REIT qualification under the REIT gross asset tests. Our investments in construction loans will require us to make estimates about the fair market value of land improvements that may be challenged by the IRS. We may invest in construction loans, the interest from which will be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT income tests, provided that the loan value of the real property securing the construction loan is equal to or greater than the highest outstanding principal amount of the construction loan during any taxable year. For purposes of construction loans, the loan value of the real property is the fair market value of the land plus the reasonably estimated cost of the improvements or developments (other than personal property) which will secure the loan and which are to be constructed from the proceeds of the loan. There can be no assurance that the IRS would not challenge our estimate of the loan value of the real property. The failure of a mezzanine loan to qualify as a real estate asset could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We may acquire mezzanine loans, for which the IRS has provided a safe harbor but not rules of substantive law. Pursuant to the safe harbor, if a mezzanine loan meets certain requirements, it will be treated by the IRS as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and interest derived from the mezzanine loan will be treated as qualifying mortgage interest for purposes of the REIT 75% income test. We may acquire mezzanine loans that do not meet all of the requirements of this safe harbor. In the event we own a mezzanine loan that does not meet the safe harbor, the IRS could challenge such loan’s treatment as a real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests and, if such a challenge were sustained, we could fail to qualify as a REIT. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 