Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following factors and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding to invest in our common stock. There can be no assurance that the Merger contemplated by the Merger Agreement between affiliates of Energy Capital Partners and us will be completed. If the Merger is not completed, we expect the market price of our common stock to decline, potentially significantly. On January 7, 2013, the Company entered into the Merger Agreement which provides for the acquisition of the Company by Parent. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions contained therein, we will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent following the merger of a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent with and into us. If the Merger contemplated by the Merger Agreement is completed, each share of our common stock will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive $3.75 in cash, without interest, less any required tax withholding, except for shares of our common stock held by us immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger, shares owned by Parent, Parent's affiliates or any subsidiary of the Company and shares owned by stockholders of the Company who have properly demanded appraisal rights. The per share merger consideration of $3.75 represents a premium of approximately 20% to the average closing price of our common stock during the 30-day trading period ended on January 4, 2013, the last trading day prior to the public announcement of the execution of the Merger Agreement, and a premium of approximately 9% to the closing price of our common stock on January 4, 2013. The closing trading price of our common stock was $3.44 per share on the last trading day prior to the public announcement of the Merger Agreement. However, the trading price of our common stock has been subject to significant volatility prior to and since this announcement. Completion of the Merger is subject to certain closing conditions, including stockholder approval of the Merger, consent from the NRC and any State from which the Company or its subsidiaries holds a radiological license or permit issued pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act and other customary conditions. There can be no assurance that those conditions will be satisfied. If the Merger is not consummated, our stock price could fall below its current trading range for the following, but not limited to the following, reasons: •We do not expect to have sufficient resources available to repay the remaining balloon payment of our senior secured term loan which matures in August 2016. We may not be able to refinance, renew or replace the senior secured term loan given the likelihood of additional credit rating downgrades. If we are unable to refinance our debt, we could be forced by our creditors to undertake a financial restructuring that could reduce the value of our common stock. •The fair market value of our senior notes and senior secured term loan may be negatively impacted. Prior to the announcement of the Merger, our senior notes and senior secured term loan were trading at a substantial discount to their par value. Our senior notes traded publicly between 82%-95% of par value in the months leading up to the Merger announcement. A change in control provision in the indenture governing the senior notes gives senior note holders the right to put their senior notes back to the Company at 101% of par value. If the Merger is not consummated and as a result the change in control provision is not triggered, we expect that our senior notes and senior secured term loan will be substantially discounted back to the trading range they were in prior to the announced Merger which could impact our debt costs and our ability to secure additional financing. •The debt ratings of our senior notes and senior secured term loan may be negatively impacted. Our senior notes and senior secured term loan are rated by both Moody's and Standard & Poor's. Both rating agencies downgraded our senior notes and senior secured term loan during 33 Table of Contents 2012. If the Merger is not consummated, we may experience further debt rating downgrades which could impact our debt costs and our ability to secure additional financing. •Our teaming agreement for the Magnox contract rebid may be subject to renegotiation and our rebid may be less competitive. Our teaming partner for the Magnox contract rebid has indicated it is prepared to consent to the Merger, but will consider a variety of options, including renegotiating the terms of our teaming agreement, if the Merger is not consummated. In addition, the NDA is expected to consider the financial condition of each bidder as an important factor in awarding the Magnox contract. If the Merger is not consummated, our financial condition will be substantially less favorable, and could significantly adversely impact the competitiveness of our bid. Lastly, the NDA has required successful bidders for similar contracts to provide a substantial parent guarantee. If the Merger is not consummated, the terms of our existing debt agreements would likely require us to seek a discretionary amendment from our existing lenders in order to allow us to provide a parent guarantee. There can be no assurance that our existing lenders would consent to such an amendment of debt agreements. •The Company will be less able to reduce the Zion project letter of credit costs (discussed below) and will be more likely to suffer asset depletion under the parent guarantees provided to Exelon in connection with the Zion project (discussed below). The Company's best opportunity to reduce risk on the project and lower project related letter of credit costs is to team with a partner with a strong balance sheet. The probability of finding a willing partner will be significantly lower if the Merger is unsuccessful and the Company's current debt structure continues. •We may not be able to win future projects because we will not be in a financial position to provide sufficient financial assurances or other financial instruments required for such projects. For example, as a result of the rating downgrade of our debt in June 2012, an insurance carrier quoted renewal premiums at a significant increase to the existing premiums for the assurance associated with our closure obligations at two of our facilities. The premiums were unacceptable to the Company, and as a result, we had to issue letters of credit in lieu of the insurance policies. This resulted in an increased expense to the Company. •We could be adversely affected by litigation that has been or will be initiated in connection with the Merger. Whenever a transaction of this magnitude fails to close, there is a significant risk that litigation will follow, which may require significant attention from management and sizeable resources from the Company •We could be required to pay a termination fee of $13.6 million to an affiliate of Energy Capital Partners or its designee in certain circumstances. We may be obligated to make certain expense reimbursement payments to Energy Capital Partners. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, we could be required to make an expense reimbursement payment to Energy Capital Partners. However, the amount of such reimbursement is limited to: (i) $10 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated on or within 90 days of the date of the Merger Agreement, (ii) $20 million at any time on or between 91 and 180 days after the date of the Merger Agreement, (iii) $30 million at any time on or after 181 days after the date of the Merger Agreement or (iv) $5.4 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated because the stockholder approval was not obtained and Energy Capital Partners' reimbursable expenses are due and payable. 34 Table of Contents The pendency of our agreement to be acquired by Energy Capital Partners could have a negative impact on our business. The announcement and pendency of the Merger may have a negative impact on our business, financial results and operations or disrupt our business by: •intensifying existing litigation or increasing new legal claims from our competitors and other third parties; •intensifying competition as our competitors may seek opportunities related to our pending Merger; •affecting our relationships with our customers, distributors, suppliers, regulators and employees; •limiting certain of our business operations prior to completion of the Merger which may prevent us from pursuing certain opportunities without Energy Capital Partners' approval; •causing us to forego certain opportunities we might otherwise pursue absent the Merger Agreement; •impairing our ability to attract, recruit, retain, and motivate current and prospective employees who may be uncertain about their future roles and relationships with us following the completion of the Merger; and •creating distractions from our strategy and day-to-day operations for our employees and management and a strain on resources. Under the Merger Agreement, we have agreed to certain covenants that place restrictions on our ability to, without Parent's written approval (which, with respect to certain actions, cannot be unreasonably withheld), among other things, dispose of properties or assets, make unbudgeted capital expenditures, acquire substantial assets or equity interests of a third party, make substantial investments or enter into new lines of business, increase the compensation of certain of our employees or directors, pay certain bonuses or incentive compensation, grant new equity or non-equity based compensation awards, hire new employees, encumber shares of our capital stock, declare or pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock, other than those between us and our subsidiaries, incur indebtedness, take certain actions with respect to our owned and leased real property, make certain changes to our corporate structure and enter into certain transactions with related parties or enter into new material contracts outside the ordinary course of business, in each case, until the earlier of the termination of the Merger Agreement and the effective time of the merger. Amendments to the federal and state regulations that govern the classification of LLRW could negatively impact the Company's business. Federal regulations require that low-level radioactive waste be classified as Class A, B, or C prior to disposal. LLRW disposal facilities may only receive LLRW that complies with criteria set by state regulators, according to the NRC's LLRW classification. The NRC is proposing to amend its LLRW classification regulations to require new and revised site-specific analyses and to permit the development of criteria for waste acceptance based on the results of these analyses, rather than on just the current generic classification system. Ultimately these amendments could impact what waste our Clive, Utah disposal facility is permitted to accept for disposal. Any temporary or permanent disruption or decrease in the waste streams coming to Clive for disposal could have a significant material impact on the Company's business. We expect the NRC to finalize these amendments in late 2014 or 2015. 35 Table of Contents Our licensed stewardship arrangement with Exelon exposes us to significant financial risks. The transaction with Exelon is the first of its kind and, therefore, required extensive assurances. The Exelon transaction is expected to prove the license stewardship initiative as a viable model, such that other utility companies will not require as many layers of financial assurance. The transaction with Exelon establishes a series of financial consequences intended to ensure that the Zion Station decommissioning trust fund does not fall below projected completion costs (a "Deficiency"). Whenever there is a Deficiency, ZionSolutions must defer collection of invoices from the trust fund ("deferred receivables") until the Deficiency is resolved. EnergySolutions, LLC and EnergySolutions, Inc. guaranteed ZionSolutions' performance; in a Deficiency scenario, these guarantees would deplete Company assets before the $200.0 million letter of credit would fund remaining decommissioning activities, as described below. If the ZionSolutions' deferred receivables reach $50 million, EnergySolutions must defer receivables from ZionSolutions or EnergySolutions, LLC must extend a loan to ZionSolutions or contribute capital to ZionSolutions such that ZionSolutions' own deferred receivables do not exceed $50 million and ZionSolutions is able to pay vendors for materials and services within established terms of trade payables and otherwise meet current operating expenses when such expenses are incurred and become due and payable . Deferral of receivables may also be triggered (up to, but not greater than, $5 million per month) if ZionSolutions fails to achieve certain milestones, subject to force majeure or schedule extension conditions. With respect to any deferral of receivables, such receivables may be collected when the Deficiency is resolved or the milestone is achieved, as applicable. Also, additional rent under the lease with Exelon may be required if substantial completion of the D&D activities is not achieved within ten years, subject to certain schedule extension conditions. Such additional rents would be $200,000 per month for the first year of delay, $800,000 per month for the second year of delay, $1,250,000 per month for the third year of delay and $1,750,000 per month for the fourth year of delay and beyond. As discussed above, the Exelon transaction also includes financial assurances beyond the deferral of receivables and additional rents. These include a pledge of the ZionSolutions equity to Exelon, a $200.0 million letter of credit (the proceeds of which may only be used for decommissioning by Exelon to the extent that Exelon exercises its right to ZionSolutions under the pledge), and a disposal easement at our Clive facility. To the extent that any of these deficiencies or events of default occur, there will be a substantial impact to our operations and financial condition because we have the contractual obligation to fund the operations of ZionSolutions if costs exceed the value of the trust fund. In February 2012, we completed a comprehensive review and assessment of the Zion Station project schedule, costs and related projected decommissioning trust fund values. Based on this review and assessment, there were no Deficiencies or events of default identified. Over the remaining life of the project, the decommissioning trust fund is not projected to fall below projected completion costs and there is no expectation that any Deficiency or event of default will occur, even in the unlikely event of the project being unprofitable. Nevertheless, all forward-looking projections and expectations regarding the Zion Station project are subject to various risks and uncertainties as noted below. The performance of the Zion Station project is subject to various risks and uncertainties that are not entirely within our control and that could have a material adverse effect on this project's profitability. The profitability or loss of the Zion Station project is a function of project cost management and NDT fund investment earnings performance. If future project costs increase and all other factors remain constant, the profitability of the project may decrease and potentially result in a loss to ZionSolutions and the Company. Similarly, if the NDT fund investment earnings are lower than current projections and all other factors remain constant, the profitability of the project may decrease (and eventually, the loss on the project will increase) as a result of lower available funding. In early 2012, we completed a comprehensive schedule, cost and budget update for the Zion Station project. As a result of this update, we determined that (i) estimated project costs had increased from the original budgeted 36 Table of Contents amounts and (ii) the originally estimated profit margin anticipated for the project had decreased to a range of approximately 10% to 15%. As a result of more conservative assumptions on NDT fund investment earnings and costs associated with the letters of credit securing our performance under the contracts governing the project, in June 2012 we announced that our estimated profit margin anticipated for the project had decreased to a range of approximately 5% to 10%. Because there are over seven years remaining on the project, there can be no assurance that our current estimates, assumptions and projections will prove accurate and all such forward-looking statements, including our projection of the project's profitability, could change materially. Our estimates, assumptions and projections are necessarily dependent upon future economic, market and other conditions over which we have no control. Accordingly, the expected profitability of the Zion Station project is uncertain. In the event actual project costs are higher than total realized NDT fund levels, we will realize no profit on the project and could incur a substantial loss that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Letters of credit, surety bonds and other financial assurances are necessary for us to win certain types of new work. We are required to post, from time to time, standby letters of credit and surety bonds or to provide other financial assurances to support contractual obligations to customers as well as other obligations. These letter of credit and bonds indemnify the customer if we fail to perform our obligations under the contract. For example, in connection with our agreement with Exelon regarding the decommissioning of Zion Station, we delivered a $200.0 million letter of credit to Exelon relating to our present and future obligations. Under our contract with Exelon and our NRC license, the letter of credit must remain in place for the duration of the Zion Station project, which we expect will occur no earlier than 2020. The letter of credit is collateralized by $200.0 million in restricted cash, which we initially obtained in 2010 through borrowings on our senior secured credit facility. Although there are provisions for step downs in the amount of the letter of credit toward the end of the Zion Station project, any release of our obligation to maintain this letter of credit is at Exelon's discretion, and we do not expect that Exelon will release us from this obligation. Exelon may cause the letter of credit to be drawn upon to fund a backup trust upon the occurrence of one of the following conditions (i) our failure to maintain the required letter of credit from a qualified financial institution, (ii) our bankruptcy or the bankruptcy of ZionSolutions, (iii) the cessation by ZionSolutions to provide all or substantially all decommissioning services for a period of longer than one year, (iv) our failure to make a payment pursuant to our guarantee of ZionSolutions' obligations, or (v) ZionSolutions' failure to use diligent efforts to perform services according to the agreed upon schedule. If we exhaust our resources and ability to complete the D&D activities, and in the event of a material default under a credit support agreement we entered into with Exelon in connection with the Zion project, Exelon may exercise its rights to take possession of ZionSolutions. At that point, through its ownership of ZionSolutions, Exelon, and not the Company, would then be entitled to draw on the funds associated with the $200.0 million letter of credit. Under the terms of our financing arrangements, we obtained restricted cash and took on the liability for the letter of credit. In addition to providing this letter of credit, we also provided a guarantee as primary obligor to the full and prompt payment and performance by ZionSolutions of all its obligations under the various agreements with Exelon and pledged 100% of our interests in ZionSolutions to Exelon. We also granted an irrevocable easement of disposal capacity of 7.5 million cubic feet at our Clive disposal facility and purchased the insurance coverage required of a licensee under the NRC's regulations. If a letter of credit, bond or other financial assurance is required for a particular project and we are unable to obtain it due to insufficient liquidity or other reasons, we will not be able to pursue that project. Moreover, due to events that affect the insurance and bonding and credit markets generally, letters of credit, bonding and other financial assurances may be more difficult to obtain in the future or 37 Table of Contents may only be available at significant additional cost. There can be no assurance that letters of credit, bonds or other financial assurances will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms. Our inability to obtain adequate letters of credit, bonds and other assurances, as a result, to bid on new work could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated industry that requires us to obtain and to comply with, federal, state and local government permits and approvals. We operate in a highly regulated environment that requires us to obtain and comply with federal, state and local government permits and approvals. Any of these permits or approvals may be subject to denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with the conditions of permits or approvals may adversely affect our operations by temporarily suspending our activities or curtailing our work and may subject us to penalties and other sanctions. Renewal of existing permits could be denied or jeopardized for various reasons, including: •failure to provide adequate financial assurance for decommissioning or closure; •failure to comply with environmental and safety laws and regulations or permit conditions; •local community, political or other opposition; •executive action; or •legislative action. In addition, if new environmental legislation or regulations are enacted or existing laws or regulations are amended or are interpreted or enforced differently, we may be required to obtain additional or modify existing operating permits or approvals. Such changes may also cause us to incur additional expenses. We operate in a politically sensitive environment and public perception of nuclear power and radioactive materials can affect our business. We operate in a politically sensitive environment. The risks associated with radioactive materials and the public perception of those risks can affect our business. Various public interest groups and political representatives frequently oppose the operation of processing and disposal sites for radioactive materials such as our Barnwell, South Carolina, Oak Ridge, Tennessee and Clive, Utah disposal facilities. For example, public interest groups and the former governor of Utah have made public statements regarding their desire to limit the source and volume of radioactive materials that we process and dispose at our Clive facility. The Utah Board of Radiation Control has also placed a temporary moratorium on the disposal of depleted uranium at our Clive facility even though depleted uranium is Class A waste that has previously been disposed of at our Clive facility. In addition, the NRC has announced that it is undertaking a limited rulemaking to require the preparation of a site-specific analysis at sites that dispose of significant quantities of depleted uranium. Although preliminary NRC analyses indicate that facilities such as our Clive facility will continue to be suitable for the disposal of depleted uranium, the Utah Board of Radiation Control has approved its own rule that requires a performance assessment prior to disposal of significant quantities of depleted uranium at our Clive facility. This assessment has been completed and submitted for review and approval. The review and approval process or other restrictions could result in a delay or changes in how we dispose of depleted uranium at our Clive facility. Any regulatory, environmental or legislative efforts to limit or delay the operations at any of our facilities will adversely affect our business. 38 Table of Contents The April 2011 natural disaster in Japan, which resulted in the release of radioactive material from the Fukushima nuclear power plant following the nuclear disaster there, highlights how public reaction can have a significant political influence and cause changes in governmental policies. Opposition by third parties can delay or prohibit the construction of new nuclear power plants and can limit the operation of nuclear reactors or the handling and disposal of radioactive materials. In the past, adverse public reaction, increased regulatory scrutiny and litigation have contributed to extended construction periods for new nuclear reactors, sometimes extending construction schedules by decades or more. Adverse public reaction and the perceived risks associated with nuclear power and radioactive material could also lead to increased regulation which limits or prohibits the activities of our customers. Our customers might also be subject to more onerous operating requirements. Any of the foregoing conditions or unforeseen adverse conditions in the future could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, we may seek to address public and political opposition to our business activities through voluntary limitations on our operations. These actions, however, divert time and resources away from our core business operations and strategies and may not achieve the results we desire. For example, as part of our response to public statements made by public interest groups and the former governor of Utah regarding their desire to limit the source and volume of radioactive materials that we process and dispose at our Clive facility, we voluntarily agreed with the former governor to withdraw a request for a license amendment to increase our overall capacity at our Clive facility. We are subject to liability under environmental laws and regulations. We are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, discharges to air and water, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances and human health and safety. These laws and regulations and the risk of attendant litigation can significantly impact project schedules and cost. In addition, the improper characterization, handling, testing, transportation or disposal of regulated materials or any other failure to comply with these environmental, health and safety laws, regulations, permits or licenses may result in fines or penalties from time to time and could subject us and our management to civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations or the issuance of injunctions that could restrict or prevent our operations. These laws and regulations may also become more stringent, or be more stringently enforced, in the future. Various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, as well as common law, may impose liability for property damage and costs of investigation and clean-up of hazardous or toxic substances on property currently or previously owned by us or arising out of our waste management, environmental remediation or nuclear D&D activities. These laws may impose responsibility and liability without regard to knowledge of or causation of the presence of contaminants. The liability under these laws can be joint and several, meaning liability for the entire cost of clean-up can be imposed upon any responsible party. We have potential liabilities associated with our past radioactive materials management activities and with our current and prior ownership of various properties. The discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of unforeseen clean-up obligations at these or other sites could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. When we perform our services, our personnel and equipment may be exposed to radioactive and hazardous materials and conditions. We may be subject to liability claims by employees, customers and third parties as a result of such exposures. There can be no assurance that our existing liability insurance is adequate, that it will be able to be maintained or that all possible claims that may be asserted against us will be covered by insurance. A partially or completely uninsured claim at any of our facilities, if successful and of sufficient magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 39 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to taxation and regulation by federal, state, local and other governmental entities. We have deferred tax assets for net operating loss carry-forwards. We also currently benefit from research and development credits which reduce our overall tax rate. The expiration of the net operating loss carry-forwards and inability to qualify for future tax credits or changes in governing rules and regulations could result in a material increase in our taxes and effective tax rate. We may not have the ability to pass on the effect of such increase to our customers and, as a result, our stockholders could bear the burden of any such tax increase. The risk of a material tax increase may be exacerbated by political pressure to limit our operations. Our facilities are also subject to political actions by government entities which can reduce or completely curtail their operations. For example, the state of South Carolina closed the Barnwell disposal site on July 1, 2008 to customers outside of the Atlantic Compact, which consists of South Carolina, New Jersey and Connecticut. Although the Barnwell closure did not have a significant impact on our revenue or net income, political pressures to reduce or curtail other operations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business depends on the continued operation of and adequate capacity at, our Clive, Utah disposal facility. Our disposal facility in Clive, Utah is a strategic asset and is vital to our business. This facility is the largest privately owned commercial facility for the disposal of Class A LLRW in the U.S. Because of the greater profitability of the Clive facility in comparison with the rest of our business, a loss of revenue from Clive would have a disproportionate impact on our gross profit and gross margin. The Clive facility is subject to the normal hazards of operating any disposal facility. In addition, access to the facility is limited and any interruption in rail or other transportation services to and from the facility will affect our ability to operate the facility. In December 2009, the governor of Utah announced he had reached an agreement with the DOE not to ship any additional depleted uranium from the Savannah River site to the Clive facility until a site-specific performance assessment of the Clive facility could be completed. These and other actions by states or the federal government may affect the operation, capacity, expansion or extension of the Clive facility. The Northwest Compact, which consists of Alaska, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming was created pursuant to a federal statute that enable states to enter into interstate compacts for the purpose of managing LLRW. The Northwest Compact has asserted that it has authority over our Clive, Utah facility and on November 9, 2010, the U.S. Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the Northwest Compact is statutorily and constitutionally permitted to exercise exclusionary authority over the Clive facility. Any of the foregoing actions may hinder, delay or stop shipments to the facility, which could impair our ability to execute disposal projects and significantly reduce future revenue. We believe that the Clive facility has sufficient capacity for approximately 30 years of operations based on our estimate of future disposal volumes, our ability to optimize disposal capacity utilization and the license amendment to convert volume capacity originally intended for 11e(2) waste to Class A LLRW that was approved in November 2012. If future disposal volumes increase beyond our expectations or if our other assumptions prove to be incorrect, then the remaining capacity at the Clive facility would be utilized more quickly than projected. Any interruption in our operation of the Clive facility or decrease in the effective capacity of the facility would adversely affect our business and any prolonged disruption in the operation of the facility or reduction in the capacity or useful life of the facility would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 40 Table of Contents Our international operations involve risks that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we derived 68.5% and 35.3% of our revenue and segment operating income from our operations outside of North America. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we derived 62.0% and 181.1% of our revenue and operating income from our operations outside of North America. Our business depends on the success of our international operations and we expect that our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue and operating income. In addition to risks applicable to our business generally, our international operations are subject to a variety of heightened or distinct risks, including: •recessions or inflationary trends in foreign economies and the impact on government funding and our costs of doing business in those countries; •the expansion of our business and operations in China, including challenges related to protecting our intellectual property and political risks; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •changes in regulatory requirements; •foreign currency fluctuations; •the adoption of new and the expansion of existing, trade restrictions; •acts of war and terrorism; •the ability to finance efficiently our foreign operations; •high initial entry costs associated with new markets; •the possibility of greater than expected operating costs; •social, political and economic instability; •increases in taxes; •limitations on the ability to repatriate foreign earnings; and •natural disasters or other crises. The loss of one or a few customers or a particular strategic asset could have an adverse effect on us. One or a few government and commercial customers have in the past and may in the future, account for a significant portion of our revenue in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. For example, the NDA accounts for most of our revenue in the International segment. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, 63.8%, 61.0% and 57.6%, of our total consolidated revenue was generated from contracts funded by the NDA. In addition, from time to time we typically have contracts with various offices within the DOE, including with the Office of Environmental Management, the Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management, the National Nuclear Security Administration and the Office of Nuclear Energy. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, 11.0%, 15.3% and 21.7%, respectively, of our total consolidated revenue was from contracts funded by the DOE. Our business strategy and profitability rely on our ownership of unique disposal facilities. A significant amount of our revenue is derived from large one-time projects. The termination or expiration of a significant contract, the loss of a significant customer, the loss of a strategic asset or the lack of new project awards could have a materially adverse effect on our business. In addition, customers generally contract with us for specific projects and as projects are completed we may lose customers from year to year. For these reasons, we may be particularly sensitive 41 Table of Contents to significant fluctuations in our revenue, liquidity and profitability. Our inability to replace this business could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We may fail to win re-bids in the U.K. for the Magnox decommissioning contracts currently held by our subsidiary EnergySolutions EU Limited. The NDA contracts (the "Magnox Contracts") held by EnergySolutions EU Limited through its subsidiary Magnox Limited (formerly held by the Magnox North Limited and Magnox South Limited subsidiaries), in relation to the Magnox North sites and the Magnox South sites (the "Magnox Sites") have been extended and are scheduled to expire September 30, 2014 and can be extended for an additional six months at the option of the NDA. For the contract year ended March 31, 2013, we expect to recognize revenue of approximately $1.1 billion from these contracts. The competition of these contracts commenced in July 2012 and is expected to be completed in late 2013. We expect the re-bid of the Magnox Contracts and other material contracts under which we perform will involve intense competition. We are competing for the re-bid of the Magnox Contracts by teaming with one partner which will reduce our ownership percentage of the re-bid opportunity. Our failure to win the re-bid would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Even if we win the re-bid, the participation of a partner will reduce the revenue and profits accruing to us from these contracts. We also have goodwill and other intangible assets associated with our international business unit that would likely be impaired if we do not win the rebid of the Magnox Contract. We have substantial debt, which could harm our financial condition, business and growth prospects. As of December 31, 2012, we had outstanding debt balances of $527.0 million under our senior secured credit facility and $300.0 million under our senior notes. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: •we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and other fees on our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for other purposes; •our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be limited; •we may be unable to renew, replace or repay long-term debt as it becomes due, particularly in light of the tightening of lending standards as a result of the economic downturn; •we may not be able to renew or replace our long-term debt at terms that are acceptable to us; •our flexibility in reacting to changes in the industry may be limited and we could be more vulnerable to adverse changes in our business or economic conditions in general; and •we may be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have less debt or more favorable interest rates. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facility bear interest at variable rates. As of December 31, 2012, the interest rate of our term loan and revolving letter of credit facilities was 6.25%. Assuming that this interest rate and the principal balance remains constant during the following years, our interest payment obligations related to the term loan obligations would be approximately $32.9 million for each of the next five years. Based on the amount of variable rate debt outstanding and the interest rate at December 31, 2012, a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $5.3 million. If interest rates were to increase significantly, our ability to borrow additional funds may be reduced, our interest expense would significantly increase and the risks related to our substantial debt would intensify. Outstanding balances under our senior notes due 2018 bear interest at a 10.75% fixed interest rate. At this rate and assuming an outstanding balance of $300.0 million as of December 31, 2012, our 42 Table of Contents annual debt service obligations would be $32.3 million. Based on the amount of outstanding debt and its fixed interest rate we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to redeem all or a portion of our senior notes and to pay interest and other fees associated with our senior notes, which could reduce the funds available to us for other purposes and could significantly increase our debt. The agreements governing our debt restrict our ability to engage in certain business transactions. The agreements governing the senior secured credit facility restrict our ability to, among other things, engage in the following actions, subject to limited exceptions: •incur or guarantee additional debt; •declare or pay dividends to holders of our common stock; •make investments and acquisitions; •incur or permit to exist liens; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •make material changes in the nature or conduct of our business; •merge or consolidate with, or sell substantially all of our assets to, other companies; •enter into guarantees for, and investments into, certain subsidiaries and joint ventures; •make capital expenditures; and •transfer or sell assets. The agreements governing our senior secured credit facility contain financial covenants which we may not meet with our future financial results. Our senior secured credit facility contains financial covenants requiring us to maintain specified maximum leverage and minimum cash interest coverage ratios. The results of our future operations may not allow us to meet these covenants, or may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. Our failure to comply with obligations under our senior secured credit facility, including satisfaction of the financial ratios, would result in an event of default under the facilities. A default, if not cured or waived, would prohibit us from obtaining further loans under our senior secured credit facility and permit the lenders thereunder to accelerate payment of their loans and not renew the letters of credit which support our bonding obligations. If we are not current in our bonding obligations, we may be in breach of our contracts with our customers, which generally require bonding. In addition, we would be unable to bid or be awarded new contracts that required bonding. If our debt is accelerated, we currently would not have funds available to pay the accelerated debt and may not have the ability to refinance the accelerated debt on terms favorable to us or at all particularly in light of the tightening of lending standards as a result of the ongoing financial crisis. If we could not repay or refinance the accelerated debt, we would be insolvent and could seek to file for bankruptcy protection. Any such default, acceleration or insolvency would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. We may not be able to generate or borrow enough cash to service our debt, which could result in bankruptcy or otherwise impair our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to continue our operations. We rely primarily on our ability to generate cash from operations to service our debt. If we do not generate sufficient cash flows we may need to seek additional financing. If we are unable to obtain 43 Table of Contents financing on terms that are acceptable to us, we could be forced to sell our assets or those of our subsidiaries to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. Our senior secured credit facility limits our ability to sell assets and also restricts our use of the proceeds from any such sale. If we default on our debt obligations, our lenders could require immediate repayment of our entire outstanding debt. If our lenders require immediate repayment on the entire principal amount, we will not be able to repay them in full, and our inability to meet our debt obligations could result in bankruptcy or otherwise impair our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to continue our operations. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, including: •the seasonality of our contracts, the spending cycle of our government customers and the spending patterns of our commercial customers; •the large size and irregular timing of payments under our international contracts; •the number and significance of projects commenced and completed during a quarter; •uncertainty in timing for receiving government contract awards; •our contract with the NDA, under which we generally recognize most efficiency fees in the first and fourth calendar quarters of each year; •unanticipated changes in contract performance, particularly with contracts that have funding limits; •the timing of resolutions of change orders, requests for equitable adjustments and other contract adjustments; •decisions by customers to terminate our contracts; •delays incurred in connection with a project; •seasonal variations in shipments of radioactive materials; •the timing of expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions or other corporate initiatives; •staff levels and utilization rates; •competitive factors in our industry; and •general economic or political conditions. Fluctuations in quarterly results, lower than anticipated revenue or our failure to meet financial guidance or published analyst forecasts, could negatively impact the price of our common stock. Our life-of-plant contracts may not remain in effect through a nuclear power plant's decontamination and decommissioning or may subject us to additional liabilities. Our life-of-plant contracts are intended to provide us with revenue streams from the processing and disposal of substantially all LLRW and MLLW generated over the remaining lives of nuclear power plants operated by our commercial power and utility customers. These contracts are also meant to provide waste disposal revenue streams when the plants are shut down. However, these contracts may 44 Table of Contents not actually remain effective for that entire period. A typical life-of-plant contract may terminate before D&D because the contract may: •have a shorter initial term than the useful life of the plant and the contract may not be extended by the utility; •include a provision that allows the customer to terminate the contract after a certain period of time or upon certain events such as the development of a new disposal facility within the plants compact region; •allow for renegotiation of pricing terms if market conditions change; and •allow for renegotiation of pricing terms based on increases in taxes and pass-through or other costs. The early termination or renegotiation of a life-of-plant contract may reduce our revenue and profits. In addition, life-of-plant contracts may expose us to liability in the event that any government action limits our ability to accept radioactive materials by capping the capacity of one or more of our disposal facilities or taking other actions that prevent us from disposing of LLRW and MLLW at our facilities or substantially increase the cost of doing so. We may not be successful in winning new business from our government and commercial customers. We must be successful in winning new business from our government and commercial customers to replace revenue from completed projects and to sustain growth. Our business and operating results can be significantly influenced by the size and timing of a single material contract. Large government contracts become available for bidding on an infrequent basis. Our business strategy includes bidding on such contracts as the prime contractor, part of a joint venture or other team arrangement competing for a prime contract and as a first tier or lower subcontractor. We expect to bid on a significant portion of the approximately $30 billion of federal nuclear services contracts that we estimate will be awarded within the next five years. In the past, we have operated primarily as a subcontractor or in a minority position on a prime contractor team. In pursuing new prime contracts, either as a prime contractor or as part of a joint venture or other team arrangement, we will be competing directly against a number of large national and regional nuclear services firms, which may compete individually or as part of a joint venture or team, that may possess or develop superior technologies and/or have greater financial, management and marketing resources. Many of these companies, joint ventures and teams, also have long-established customer relationships and reputations. As a result, we may not be successful in being awarded the prime contract as the lead prime contractor or as part of a joint venture or other team arrangement for any of these contracts. Investor lawsuits could adversely affect our business and financial position. Two purported class action lawsuits were filed against us in October 2009. In February 2010, the lawsuits were consolidated and a lead plaintiff was named. The lawsuit names as defendants EnergySolutions, Inc., certain of our current and prior directors, certain of our officers, the lead underwriters in our November 2007 initial public offering ("IPO") and July 2008 secondary offering (the "July 2008 Offering") and ENV Holdings LLC, our former parent. The lawsuit alleges that the registration statements and prospectuses for the IPO and July 2008 Offering contained inaccurate statements of material facts and omitted material information required to be disclosed therein. The lawsuit seeks to certify a class consisting of all purchasers of our stock from November 14, 2007 through October 14, 2008. Our stock price varied from approximately $27.85 to $5.64 during that period. 45 Table of Contents Under our organizational documents and contractual agreements, we have indemnification obligations to all of the named defendants. While we currently believe that our interests and defenses in the lawsuit are similar to those of the other parties who have also been named as defendants in the lawsuit, the interests and defenses of the other defendants could become different or diverge from ours in the future. If our interests were to diverge, we may incur additional costs and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If plaintiffs are successful in certifying a class and establishing the allegations in the lawsuit, damages could be significant and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. Although we believe that the lawsuit is without merit and we intend to vigorously defend it, there can be no assurance that we will prevail. An unfavorable resolution of this lawsuit could result in a substantial judgment against us and, even if we are successful in defending against the allegations of the lawsuit, we may incur significant costs for legal fees and indemnification obligations to other named defendants. We may also incur increased costs for renewal of our directors' and officers' liability insurance. The defense of the lawsuit may also involve the commitment of significant company resources and may demand the time and attention of our employees, officers and directors, particularly those who are personally named, to the detriment of our business operations. In addition, two shareholder derivative actions have been filed against us. On August 25, 2010, a shareholder derivative action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah against EnergySolutions, Inc. as the nominal defendant, various current and prior directors and certain of our officers. On October 8, 2010, another shareholder derivative action was filed in the Supreme Court of New York, County of New York, against EnergySolutions, Inc., certain prior directors, ENV Holdings LLC, our former parent and Lindsay Goldberg & Bessemer, L.P. Both derivative complaints allege breach of fiduciary duty against the defendants. The underlying facts in both of the derivative complaints are substantively the same as those in the purported class-action lawsuit. There may be additional similar lawsuits filed in the future. Under our organizational documents and contractual agreements, we have indemnification obligations to certain of the named defendants in these derivative lawsuits. While we currently believe that our interests and defenses in these lawsuits are similar to those of the other parties who have also been named as defendants, the interests and defenses of the other defendants could become different or diverge from ours in the future. If our interests were to diverge, we may incur additional costs and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On October 12, 2012, we and the plaintiffs in these investor lawsuits reached an agreement in principle to resolve all claims made by the plaintiffs in their complaints underlying the proceeding. The agreement does not contain an admission of guilt or other wrongdoing on the part of the Company, or our officers, directors or affiliates. The court signed an order preliminarily approving the settlement on December 3, 2012. A hearing for final approval of the settlement is scheduled. Following the Company's January 7, 2013 announcement that it had entered into a Merger Agreement providing for the acquisition of the Company by Parent, an entity formed by Energy Capital Partners, ten purported class action lawsuits were brought against us, the members of our board of directors, Energy Capital Partners II, LLC, Parent and Merger Sub. Six lawsuits were filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery (collectively, "the Delaware actions"). On January 19, 2013, the Court of Chancery entered an order consolidating the Delaware actions. On January 28, 2013, the Court of Chancery entered an Order of Class Certification and Case Management which, among other things, certified a non opt-out class of EnergySolutions stockholders consisting of all persons who held shares of stock of EnergySolutions (excluding defendants named in the Delaware actions and their immediate family members, any entity controlled by any of the defendants, and any successors in interest thereto) at any time during the period from and including January 7, 2013, through the date of consummation or termination of the Merger. 46 Table of Contents On March 15, 2013, without admitting any wrongdoing and to avoid the burden, expense and disruption of continued litigation, EnergySolutions, Inc., the members of our board of directors, Energy Capital Partners II, LLC, Parent and Merger Sub entered into a memorandum of understanding with the plaintiffs in the Delaware actions providing for the settlement in principle of the claims brought by the plaintiffs in the Delaware actions. Pursuant to the memorandum of understanding, we included additional disclosures in our proxy statement requested by the plaintiffs in the Delaware actions. The parties to the Delaware actions are in the process of documenting the settlement and will present the settlement to the Delaware Court of Chancery for approval when that documentation is complete. In approving the settlement, the Delaware Court of Chancery may also require the Company to pay plaintiffs' attorney fees, the amount of which have not been determined. The other four lawsuits were filed in the Utah State District Court, Third Judicial District, Salt Lake County, (the "Utah actions"). On February 1, 2013, the Company and certain defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss or Stay, or in the Alternative for Extension of Time to Respond to Complaint in the Luck action, seeking to dismiss or stay the action in deference to the Delaware actions. Collectively, the Delaware actions and Utah actions generally allege that the individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties in connection with the Merger because the merger consideration is unfair, that certain other terms in the Merger Agreement are unfair, and that certain individual defendants are financially interested in the Merger. Some of the actions further allege that Energy Capital Partners, Parent and Merger Sub aided and abetted these alleged breaches of fiduciary duty. Among other remedies, the lawsuits seek to enjoin the Merger, or in the event that an injunction is not awarded, unspecified money damages, costs and attorneys' fees. We believe that each of the Delaware actions and Utah actions is without merit, and we intend to vigorously defend against all claims asserted to the extent not yet resolved. We believe the legal claims alleged against the Company in the complaints described above are without merit and we intend to vigorously defend these actions to the extent not yet resolved. For more information regarding the above referenced lawsuits, including their current status, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our failure to maintain our safety record could have an adverse effect on our business. Our safety record is critical to our reputation. Many of our government and commercial customers require that we maintain certain specified safety record guidelines to be eligible to bid for contracts. Furthermore, contract terms may provide for automatic termination in the event that our safety record fails to adhere to agreed-upon guidelines. As a result, our failure to maintain our safety record could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur regulatory fines or lose our NDA contract fees if a significant accident were to occur at the power generating facilities. Under the Magnox Contracts, we manage 22 nuclear reactors, 1 of which is currently operating, for the NDA. The management and operation of such facilities subjects us to various risks including potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials and limitations on the amounts of types of insurance commercially available to cover potential losses. We are required to meet licensing and safety-related requirements imposed by the NDA and other regulatory agencies in the U.K. In the event of non-compliance, the NDA or other regulatory agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines and/or shut down a facility, depending upon the assessment of the severity of the situation. Revised security and safety requirements promulgated by regulatory agencies could necessitate capital expenditures, as well as proportionate assessments against us to cover third-party losses. 47 Table of Contents If a nuclear incident were to occur at one of the nuclear facilities operated by us, there could be environmental, health and public safety consequences. A nuclear incident could lead to the termination of our position as the operator of that facility and/or other nuclear facilities and potentially impact other segments of our business. The elimination or any modification of the Price-Anderson Act's indemnification authority, which is applicable to certain of our operations, could harm our business. The AEA comprehensively regulates the manufacture, use and storage of radioactive materials. Section 170 of the AEA, which is known as the Price-Anderson Act, provides for broad indemnification to commercial nuclear power plant operators and DOE contractors for liabilities arising out of nuclear incidents at power plants licensed by the NRC and at DOE nuclear facilities. That indemnification protects not only the NRC licensee or DOE prime contractor, but also companies like us that work under contract or subcontract for a licensed power plant or under a DOE prime contractor transporting radioactive material to or from a site. The indemnification authority of the NRC and DOE under the Price-Anderson Act was extended through 2025 by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The Price-Anderson Act's indemnification provisions generally do not apply to our processing and disposal facilities and do not apply to all liabilities that we might incur while performing services as a contractor for the DOE and the nuclear energy industry. If an incident or evacuation is not covered under Price-Anderson Act indemnification, we could incur substantial losses, regardless of fault, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In connection with international transportation of toxic, hazardous and radioactive materials, it is possible for a claim to be asserted which may not fall within the indemnification provided by the Price-Anderson Act. If such indemnification authority is not applicable in the future, we may not be able to obtain commercially adequate insurance on a cost effective basis, or at all and our business could be adversely affected if the owners and operators of new facilities elect not to retain our services. Our existing and future customers may reduce or halt their spending on nuclear services from outside vendors, including us. A variety of factors may cause our existing or future customers to reduce or halt their spending on nuclear services from outside vendors, including us. These factors include, but are not limited to: •the financial condition and strategy of the owners and operators of nuclear reactors; •a reduction in demand for nuclear generating capacity; •civic opposition to or changes in government policies regarding nuclear operations; •disruptions in the nuclear fuel cycle, such as insufficient uranium supply or conversion; or •accidents, terrorism, natural disasters or other incidents occurring at nuclear facilities or involving shipments of nuclear materials. These events also could adversely affect us to the extent that they result in the reduction or elimination of contractual requirements, the suspension or reduction of nuclear reactor operations, the reduction of supplies of nuclear raw materials, lower demand for nuclear services, burdensome regulation, disruptions of shipments or production, increased operational costs or difficulties or increased liability for actual or threatened property damage or personal injury. Economic downturns and reductions in government funding could harm our businesses. Demand for our services has been and we expect that demand will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including economic and industry conditions. The stress experienced by global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 48 Table of Contents substantially increased during 2008 and continued through 2012. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a depressed real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and expectations of slower global economic growth going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, low business and consumer confidence and high unemployment, have extended the economic downturn. During economic downturns, the ability of private and government entities to make expenditures on nuclear services is likely to be curtailed. Our Commercial Services customers have reduced their spending on nuclear services during the recent downturn and despite recent signs of recovery in equity markets, they have not increased their spending to levels prior to the downturn. In particular, our operations depend, in part, upon government funding and especially upon funding levels at the NDA and DOE. Significant changes in the level of government funding (for example, the annual budget of the NDA or DOE) or specifically mandated levels for individual programs that are important to our business could have an unfavorable impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For example, although the Magnox Contract funding for the 2012/2013 contract year increased over the 2011/2012 contract year, the NDA may reduce Magnox funding allocations in the future as the NDA directs funds to meet the funding requirements of other "high hazard" sites that are perceived to pose a greater degree of risk. If Congress does not pass annual appropriations bills in a timely fashion, it may delay spending on new government contracts. Any reduction in the level of government funding, particularly at the DOE, may result in, among other things, a reduction in the cleanup and waste handling projects put out for bid by the government or the curtailment of existing government waste disposal programs, either of which may result in a reduction in the number of contract award opportunities available to us, a reduction of waste shipment and disposal activities from DOE sites and an increase in our costs of obtaining a contract award or providing services under the contract. Market conditions have exerted downward pressure on the price of our common stock, which could limit our ability to raise capital, if necessary, through borrowings or the issuance of additional securities. A protracted economic downturn could exacerbate these adverse conditions. The current state of the financial markets could also exert pressure on our customers and could limit their ability to secure working capital. This may impact their liquidity and their ability to make timely payments of their invoices to us. The inability of our customers to make timely payments of our invoices may negatively impact our operating results and cash flows. As a government contractor, we are subject to extensive regulation and contractual and other requirements relating to the formation, administration and performance of contracts and our failure to comply with applicable regulations and requirements could subject us to penalties that may restrict our ability to conduct our business. Our government contracts, which are primarily with the NDA and the DOE, are a significant part of our business. Allowable costs under U.S. government contracts are subject to audit by the U.S. government agencies such as the U.S. Defense Contract Audit Agency, the DOE, higher-tier contractors and other auditors as designated by our government customers. Similarly, some U.K. contracts are subject to audit by U.K. regulatory authorities, including the NDA. If these audits result in determinations that costs claimed as reimbursable are not allowed costs or were not allocated in accordance with applicable regulations, we could be required to reimburse government authorities for amounts previously received. Government contracts are often subject to specific procurement regulations, contract provisions and a variety of other requirements relating to the formation, administration, performance and accounting of these contracts. Many of these contracts include express or implied certifications of 49 Table of Contents compliance with applicable regulations and contractual provisions. We may be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the federal False Claims Act, which could include claims for up to treble damages. Additionally, we may be subject to the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all factual costs and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations. Some of our projects receive funding under the ARRA or similar federal and state programs designed to provide financial assistance to create jobs, improve energy efficiency, encourage the development of renewable energy and meet critical infrastructure needs. The receipt of these funds subjects us to additional regulatory oversight and reporting requirements, which impose additional administrative burdens and costs on our business. Failure to comply with applicable regulations, requirements or statutes could disqualify us from receiving recovery funding, result in the termination or suspension of our existing government contracts, impose fines or other penalties on us, or result in our suspension or debarment from government contracting. If one or more of our government contracts are terminated for any reason, or if we are suspended or debarred from government work, we could suffer a significant reduction in expected revenue and profits. Furthermore, as a result of our government contracting or the receipt of recovery funding, claims for civil or criminal fraud may be brought by the government for violations of these regulations, requirements or statutes. We cannot assure that government audits will not result in the disallowance of significant incurred costs in the future. We may also be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act. If qui tam litigation resulted in a finding of contract violations against our company, the result could be the imposition of civil and criminal penalties or sanctions including treble damages, contract termination, forfeiture of profit, and/or suspension of payment, suspension of our eligibility as a government contractor, debarment and harm to our reputation. Any contract terminations, suspensions or debarment could reduce our profits and revenues significantly. Our global operations require importing and exporting goods and technology across international borders. We are subject to U.S. and foreign international trade laws. To the extent that we export products, technical data and services outside the U.S., we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including but not limited to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The violation of such laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, or other adverse actions including denial of import or export privileges and could damage our reputation and therefore, our ability to do business. Our commercial customers may decide to store radioactive materials on-site rather than contract with us to transport, process and dispose of their radioactive materials. Our LP&D segment's results of operations may be affected by the decisions of our commercial customers to store radioactive materials on-site, rather than contract with us to transport, process and dispose of their radioactive materials. There has been little regulatory, political or economic pressure for commercial utilities and power companies to dispose of radioactive materials at off-site facilities. Some of these commercial entities have the ability to store radioactive materials generated by their operations on-site, instead of contracting with an outside service provider to transport, process and dispose of the radioactive materials at an off-site location, such as our Clive facility. The decision to store radioactive materials on-site rather than contracting to dispose of them at an off-site facility may be influenced by, among other reasons, the accounting treatment for radioactive materials. Currently, the liability for the disposal of radioactive materials stored on-site may be capitalized on the owner's balance sheet and amortized over the expected on-site storage period. In contrast, radioactive materials 50 Table of Contents shipped off-site for disposal are expensed during the period in which the materials are shipped off-site. The NRC has rejected our proposal to undertake an amendment of current NRC rules to permit operators of nuclear reactors to access decommissioning funds for transportation and disposal of retired large components of currently operating nuclear power plants. We will continue to work with the NRC to request, on a case-by-case basis, that operators of these nuclear reactors be permitted to access decommissioning funds for transportation and disposal of retired large components. The NRC's refusal to grant such requests could have an adverse impact on the prospects for our Commercial Services and LP&D segments. Although we have entered into a license stewardship arrangement with Exelon and closed that transaction, we may not be successful in entering into other license stewardship arrangements with owners and operators of shut-down nuclear reactors. We continue to market our license stewardship solution to the owners and operators of shut-down nuclear reactors in SAFSTOR or monitored storage. Although we believe that our license stewardship initiative is an attractive alternative to deferring decommissioning and related risks to the reactor owner, the following factors may adversely affect our license stewardship initiative: •owners and operators of shut-down nuclear reactors have the option of maintaining their reactors in SAFSTOR or monitored storage, allowing their decommissioning trust fund to grow and eventually pursue a D&D program in the future; •uncertainty regarding the appropriate tax and regulatory treatment of aspects of our license stewardship initiative may prevent owners and operators of nuclear power plants from entering into these kinds of arrangements with us; •if a plant's decommissioning trust fund has decreased or failed to grow, the fund may not be large enough to make license stewardship economically feasible; •we may fail to obtain the necessary approvals and licenses from the NRC and the applicable state public utility commission on terms we find acceptable, or at all; •these contracts may require us to post letters of credit or surety bonds that we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms, or at all; •as the owner of the reactor assets and the holder of the NRC license, we may be subject to unforeseen environmental liabilities, including fines for non-compliance with environmental requirements and costs associated with the clean-up of unanticipated contamination; and •if we underestimate the costs or timing of D&D activities at a particular site, the project may not be profitable for us. Under our license stewardship initiative we will assume the D&D obligations of owners of shut-down nuclear reactors or other nuclear facilities. We anticipate the costs of this process will be paid exclusively from the decommissioning trust fund of the related facility. We would commit to undertake a particular arrangement only if we believed the decommissioning trust fund would be sufficient to fund the D&D activities including a reasonable profit. However, if we fail to appropriately manage the investment of the trust fund, to achieve a targeted return, or such funds are adversely affected by market conditions or investment returns, there may not be sufficient funds in the trust fund to complete the obligations we have assumed. Moreover, the costs of D&D could exceed the amounts in the trust fund and we may not be able to draw from other sources of funds, including funds from our other operations, to meet the costs of the project. Any of these outcomes would expose us to significant financial risk. 51 Table of Contents Our operations involve the handling, transportation and disposal of radioactive and hazardous materials and could result in liability without regard to our fault or negligence, including accidents involving the release of such materials. Our operations involve managing radioactive and hazardous materials, including handling, transportation and disposal. Failure to properly manage these materials could pose a health risk to humans and could cause personal injury and property damage (including environmental contamination). If an accident were to occur, its severity could be significantly affected by the volume of the materials and the speed of corrective action taken by emergency response personnel, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as weather and wind conditions. Actions taken in response to an accident could result in significant costs. In our contracts, we seek to protect ourselves from liability associated with accidents, but there is no assurance that such contractual limitations on liability will be effective in all cases or that our insurance (or the insurance of our customers) will cover all the liabilities we have assumed under those contracts. The costs of defending against a claim arising out of a nuclear incident or precautionary evacuation and any damages awarded as a result of such a claim, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain insurance coverage as part of our overall risk management strategy and to comply with specific requirements in our financing agreements and in other contracts. These policies do not protect us against all liabilities associated with accidents or for unrelated claims. In addition, comparable insurance may not continue to be available to us in the future at acceptable prices, or at all. We are engaged in highly competitive businesses and typically must bid against other competitors to obtain major contracts. We are engaged in highly competitive businesses in which most of our contracts are awarded through competitive bidding processes. We compete with national and regional firms with nuclear services practices, as well as small or local contractors. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which can give them a competitive advantage. In addition, even if we are qualified to work on a new government contract, we might not be awarded the contract because of existing government policies designed to protect small businesses and underrepresented minority contractors. Competition places downward pressure on our contract prices and profit margins. Intense competition is expected to continue for nuclear service contracts, challenging our ability to maintain strong growth rates and acceptable profit margins and likely requiring the expenditure of additional marketing costs and related expenses to retain market share. If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we could lose market share and experience an overall reduction in our profits. WCS commenced operations and began accepting commercial Class A, B and C LLRW in April 2012 at its site near Andrews, Texas. In addition, other competitors have requested regulatory relief from the NRC to dispose of extremely low-level commercial Class A waste in non-licensed facilities such as specialized landfills. These developments present additional competitive risks that could adversely affect our business, particularly as it relates to the revenue and gross profits from the operation of our Clive, Utah disposal facility. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by losses under fixed-price contracts. Fixed-price contracts require us to perform all work under the contract for a specified lump-sum. Fixed-price contracts expose us to a number of risks not inherent in cost-reimbursable contracts, including underestimation of costs, ambiguities in specifications, unforeseen costs or difficulties, problems with new technologies, delays beyond our control, failures of subcontractors to perform and regulatory, economic or other changes that may occur during the contract period. If we have 52 Table of Contents underestimated the costs of our fixed-price contracts, we may experience losses on such contracts and, in certain circumstances, those losses could be material. If we guarantee the timely completion or performance standards of a project, we could incur additional costs to cover our guarantee obligations. In some instances, we guarantee a customer that we will complete a project by a scheduled date or within a specified budget. For example, in connection with our license stewardship initiative, we guarantee that we will complete the decommissioning of a nuclear power plant that is currently shut down within both a particular time frame and budget. Sometimes, we also guarantee that a project, when completed, will achieve certain performance standards. If we fail to complete the project as scheduled or budgeted, or if the project fails to meet guaranteed performance standards, we may be held responsible for the impact to the customer resulting from any delay or for the cost of further work to achieve the performance standards, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon penalty provisions. As a result, the project costs could exceed our original estimate, leading to reduced profits or a loss for that project. Our use of proportional performance accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. A significant portion of our revenue is recognized using the proportional performance method of accounting. Generally, the proportional performance accounting practices we use result in recognizing contract revenue and earnings based on output measures, where estimable, or on other measures such as the proportion of costs incurred to total estimated contract costs. For some of our long-term contracts, completion is measured on estimated physical completion or units of production. The cumulative effect of revisions to contract revenue and estimated completion costs, including incentive awards, penalties, change orders, claims and anticipated losses, is recorded in the accounting period in which the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is possible that actual completion costs may vary from estimates. A significant downward revision to our estimates could result in a material charge to our results of operations in the period of such a revision. For example, during 2012, due to changes in future cost estimates to complete our Salt Waste project we recorded a reversal of previously recorded incentive fee in the amount of $5.6 million. Acquisitions that we pursue may present unforeseen integration obstacles and costs, increase our debt and negatively impact our operating results. We may pursue selective acquisitions of other nuclear services businesses, both domestic and international, that we expect will enhance our existing portfolio of services and strengthen our relationships with our government and commercial customers. We cannot give any assurance as to whether any such transaction could be completed or as to the price, terms or timetable on which we may do so. If we are able to consummate any such acquisition, it could result in dilution of our earnings, an increase in indebtedness or other consequences that could be adverse. The expense incurred in consummating acquisitions, or our failure to integrate such businesses successfully into our existing businesses, could result in our incurring unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the 53 Table of Contents ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Some of the risks associated with acquisitions include: •failure to complete anticipated acquisitions or achieve the expected benefits from completed acquisitions; •potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; •unexpected loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company; •conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; •hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and •increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition targets or negotiate attractive terms in the future. In addition, our ability to complete acquisitions is limited by covenants in our senior secured credit facility and other credit arrangements and by our financial resources, including available cash and borrowing capacity. Given the serious decline in our stock price and tight debt markets, we may be unable to make acquisitions. If we are unable to make successful acquisitions, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel in a competitive environment. Our operations require the services of highly qualified operations personnel and management, skilled technology specialists and experts in a wide range of scientific, engineering and health and safety fields. Partly because no new nuclear reactors have commenced construction in the U.S. since the mid-1970s, there have been a limited number of qualified students graduating from universities with specialized nuclear engineering or nuclear science-based degrees. As a result, the nuclear services industry is experiencing a shortage of qualified personnel. Also, the Company has continued to realign senior management to reflect ongoing changes in business opportunities, priorities and strategies. As part of the realignment, several of our executive officers and members of senior management are no longer with the Company. We face increasing competition and expense to attract and retain other qualified personnel. Loss of key personnel or failure to attract qualified management and other personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and execute our business strategy. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to test acquired goodwill for impairment on an annual basis. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire our subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. We have chosen to complete our annual impairment reviews of goodwill in the second quarter of each fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value. In addition, we are required to test our finite-lived intangible assets for impairment if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate the remaining net book value of the finite-lived intangible assets might not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, including a significant sustained decline in an entity's market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of our business, potential government actions towards our facilities and other factors. If the fair market value of our reporting units is less than their book value, we could be required to record an impairment charge. The valuation of reporting units 54 Table of Contents requires judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and other factors. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of our business, including such factors as industry performance, changes in technology and operating cash flows. Changes in our forecasts or decreases in the value of our common stock could cause book values of certain reporting units to exceed their fair values, which may result in goodwill impairment charges. The amount of any impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. Due to changes in management, decreased earnings guidance and a debt rating downgrade that occurred during the latter part of the second quarter of 2012, our stock price and corresponding market capitalization declined significantly. As a result management performed a comprehensive review of its financial forecasts and adjusted its estimates of future cash flows. These events prompted us to perform an interim goodwill impairment test as of both June 30, 2012 and September 30, 2012. Based on the first step of the analysis each of our reporting units' fair value exceeded their carrying value. However, as of September 30, 2012, the fair value of the International reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by less than 5% using a weighted average discount rate of 20% and a residual growth rate of 2.5%. The goodwill balance of our International reporting unit as of September 30, 2012 was $55.0 million. A hypothetical increase in the weighted average discount rate of 0.5% would decrease the calculated fair value as a percentage of book value for the International reporting unit by 1.6%. The calculated fair value of each of our other reporting units exceeded the reporting unit's book value by amounts greater than 5% of their book value. Although the fair value of each of the reporting units currently exceeds their carrying value, a deterioration of market conditions, an adverse change in regulatory requirements, reductions in government funding, failure to win new business or re-bids of current contracts or a continuation of the decline in our stock price and corresponding market capitalization could result in a future impairment loss. As of December 31, 2012, we had $308.6 million of goodwill and $238.0 million of finite-lived intangible assets, which collectively represented 20.5% of our total assets of $2.7 billion as of December 31, 2012. We rely on intellectual property laws, trade secrets and confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our future performance and growth. Protection of our proprietary processes, methods and other technology is important to our business. Failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies. We rely on patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright law as well as judicial enforcement to protect such technologies. A majority of our patents relate to the development of new products and processes for the processing and/or disposal of radioactive materials. Our intellectual property could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, but these agreements are limited in duration and could be breached and therefore they may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and expertise. Others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. The failure of intellectual property laws or our confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, technology, trade secrets and proprietary expertise and methods could have an adverse effect on our business by jeopardizing our rights to our intellectual property. 55 Table of Contents In addition, effective intellectual property protection may be limited or unavailable in some foreign countries where we may pursue operations. If our partners fail to perform their contractual obligations on a project, we could be exposed to legal liability, loss of reputation and reduced profit on the project. We often perform projects jointly with contractual partners. For example, we have entered into contracting consortia and other contractual arrangements to bid and perform jointly on large projects. Success on these joint projects depends in part on whether our partners fulfill their contractual obligations satisfactorily. If any of our partners fails to perform its contractual obligations satisfactorily, we may be required to make additional investments and provide additional services in order to compensate for that partner's failure. If we are unable to adequately address our partner's performance issues, then our customer may exercise its right to terminate a joint project, exposing us to legal liability, reputational harm and reduced profit. Our collaborative arrangements also involve risks that participating parties may disagree on business decisions and strategies. These disagreements could result in delays, additional costs and risks of litigation. Our inability to successfully maintain existing collaborative relationships or enter into new collaborative arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We conduct a portion of our operations through joint venture entities, over which we may have limited control. We currently have equity interests in joint ventures and may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. We cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners and as with most joint venture arrangements, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or disputes. We also typically have joint and several liabilities with our joint venture partners under the applicable contracts for joint venture projects. These factors could potentially harm the business and operations of a joint venture and, in turn, our business and operations. Operating through joint ventures in which we are minority holders results in us having limited control over many decisions made with respect to projects and internal project, financial and other controls. These joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and financial reporting that we follow. As a result, problems may arise with respect to the joint ventures that could adversely affect our ability to respond to requests, meet contractual obligations or comply with internal control requirements to which we are otherwise subject. Our dependence on subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could adversely affect us. We often rely on subcontractors and equipment manufacturers to complete our projects. For example, when providing D&D services to a government customer, we may rely on one or more subcontractors to conduct demolition work. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials to provide such services, our ability to complete the project in a timely fashion or at a given profit margin may be impaired. Our LP&D segment also enters into contracts with various railroads for the transportation of radioactive materials from project sites to our processing and disposal facilities. In the event that the railroads fail to deliver radioactive materials to our facilities on time, we could be forced to delay recognizing LP&D revenue until the time of delivery. In addition, if a subcontractor or a manufacturer is unable to deliver its services, equipment or materials according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, we may be required to purchase those services, equipment or materials from another source at a higher price. This may reduce our profitability or result in a loss on the project for which the services, equipment or materials were needed. 56 Table of Contents We may not be successful in executing our business strategies. We must be successful in executing long-term strategic plans and opportunities which include winning new business from our government and commercial customers and in diversifying our business into other areas that allow us to exploit our core competencies. If we are not successful in these endeavors, we may not achieve our financial goals. As a public company, we are subject to additional financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy. As a public company, we are obligated to file with the SEC annual and quarterly information and other reports that are specified in Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). We are also required to ensure that we have the ability to prepare financial statements that are fully compliant with all SEC reporting requirements on a timely basis. We are also subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including the requirements of the NYSE and certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and the regulations promulgated under those Acts, which impose significant compliance obligations upon us. As a public company, we are required to, among other things: •prepare and distribute periodic public reports and other shareholder communications in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws and NYSE rules; •clearly define the roles and duties of our board of directors and committees of the board; •institute comprehensive financial reporting and disclosure compliance functions; •involve and retain outside counsel and accountants in the activities listed above; •maintain an effective investor relations function; and •establish and monitor internal policies, including those relating to disclosure controls and procedures. These requirements require a significant commitment of resources. We may not be successful in implementing and monitoring specific requirements and the failure to do so could adversely affect our business or operating results. In addition, if we fail to satisfy the requirements with respect to our internal accounting and audit functions, our ability to report our operating results on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify a material weakness in our internal controls and such material weakness is not properly remediated, it could result in material misstatements of our financial statements in future periods. We or our independent registered public accounting firm may, in the future, identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is defined by the standards issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting are identified in the future, we may be unable to provide required financial information in a timely and reliable manner, or otherwise comply with the standards applicable to us as a public company and our management may not be able to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. There could also be a negative reaction in the markets due to a 57 Table of Contents loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements and, as a result, our business may be harmed and the price of our common stock may decline. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including physical and cyber security threats. We face various security threats, including cyber threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities and infrastructure, and threats from terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with these threats. Although we utilize a combination of tailored and industry standard security measures and technology to monitor and mitigate these threats, we cannot guarantee that these measures and technology will be sufficient to prevent security threats from materializing. We have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to cyber-based attacks and other attempts to threaten our information technology systems, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our proprietary or classified information and attacks from computer hackers, viruses, malicious code and other security problems. As a U.S. government contractor and our role within the nuclear industry, we may be prone to a greater number of those threats than companies in other industries. From time to time, we experience system interruptions and delays; however, prior cyber-based attacks directed at us have not had a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. The costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. Occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to customers, the value of intellectual property, our future financial results, our reputation or our stock price. We must successfully upgrade and maintain our information technology systems. We rely on various information technology systems to manage our operations. We are currently implementing modifications and upgrades to our systems, including making changes to legacy systems, replacing legacy systems with successor systems with new functionality, consolidating duplicative systems and acquiring new systems. These types of activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and changing these systems, potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the new systems, demands on management time and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. Our system implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. In addition, the implementation of new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations and have an adverse effect on our business, cash flows and operations, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated. Because we publish earnings guidance, our common stock may be subject to increased volatility and we may be subject to lawsuits by investors. Because we publish earnings guidance, we are subject to a number of risks. Based on the timing of winning new contracts, regulatory decision making and other uncertainties relating to assumptions that management makes in calculating our expected financial results, actual results may vary from the guidance we provide investors. Our stock price may decline following an announcement of disappointing earnings or earnings guidance or if we revise our earnings guidance downward as the estimates and assumptions we make in calculating guidance become more certain. Our earnings guidance reflects our assumptions regarding future performance, including, among other things, the likelihood of securing and performing work under new contracts. If we fail to secure and perform work under contracts in accordance with our assumptions, we may be unable to achieve 58 Table of Contents our earnings guidance. Some companies that have made downward revisions to their earnings guidance or did not meet the guidance provided have been subject to lawsuits by investors. Such lawsuits may result in adverse settlements or judgments. Even if such lawsuits are dismissed or have no merit, they may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business, which could harm our business and adversely affect the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 59 Table of Contents 