ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. The Creditor Protection Proceedings have had a direct impact on our business and have exacerbated these risks and uncertainties. In particular, the risks described below could cause actual events to differ materially from those contemplated in our forward-looking statements. We have organized our risks into the following categories: • Risks Relating to Our Creditor Protection Proceedings and • Risks Relating to Our Business 17 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Creditor Protection Proceedings AbitibiBowater Inc., and many of its direct and indirect subsidiaries, are currently subject to Creditor Protection Proceedings and additional subsidiaries could become subject to similar proceedings. Our business, operations and financial position are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with such proceedings. Actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties with interest in our Creditor Protection Proceedings may be inconsistent with our plans. For the duration of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our business, operations and financial position will be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with such proceedings. These risks, without limitation and in addition to the risks otherwise noted in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, include: Strategic risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • continue as a going concern; • stabilize the business to maximize the chances of preserving all or a portion of the enterprise; • develop a comprehensive restructuring plan in an effective and timely manner; • resolve ongoing issues with creditors and other third parties whose interests may differ from ours; • obtain Court approval with respect to motions in the Creditor Protection Proceedings filed from time to time; • obtain creditor, Court and any other requisite third-party approvals for a comprehensive restructuring plan; • successfully implement a comprehensive restructuring plan and plan or plans of reorganization; and • obtain Court approval for asset sales, as required. Financial risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • generate cash from operations and maintain adequate cash-on-hand; • operate within the restrictions and limitations of our current debtor in possession financing arrangements and the amended accounts receivable securitization program; • renew or extend our current debtor in possession financing arrangements and/or accounts receivable securitization program, as the case may be, if the need to do so should arise; • continue to maintain currently approved intercompany lending and transfer pricing arrangements and ongoing deployment of cash resources throughout the Company in connection with ordinary course intercompany trade obligations and requirements; • continue to maintain our cash management arrangements and obtain any further approvals from the Monitor, the Courts or other third parties, as necessary to continue such arrangements; • raise capital to satisfy claims, including our ability to sell assets to satisfy claims against us; • obtain alternative or replacement financing to replace our debtor in possession financing and restructure our substantial indebtedness and other obligations in a manner that allows us to obtain confirmation of a plan or plans of reorganization by the Courts in order to successfully exit our Creditor Protection Proceedings; and • realize full or fair value for any assets or business we may divest as part of a comprehensive restructuring plan. Operational risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • attract and retain customers despite the uncertainty caused by the Creditor Protection Proceedings; • avoid reduction in, or delay or suspension of, customer orders as a result of the uncertainty caused by the Creditor Protection Proceedings; • maintain market share as our competitors move to capitalize on customer concerns; • operate our business effectively in consultation with the Creditors’ Committee and the Monitor; • actively and adequately communicate on and respond to events, media and rumors associated with the Creditor Protection Proceedings that could adversely affect our relationships with customers, suppliers, partners and employees; 18 Table of Contents • retain and incentivize key employees, attract new employees and avoid labor disputes; • retain, or if necessary, replace major suppliers on acceptable terms; • avoid disruptions in our supply chain as a result of uncertainties related to our Creditor Protection Proceedings; and • maintain current relationships with customers, vendors and trade creditors. Procedural risks, including risks associated with our ability to: • obtain Court orders or approvals with respect to motions we file from time to time, including motions seeking extensions of the applicable stays of actions and proceedings against us, or obtain timely approval of transactions outside the ordinary course of business, or other events that may require a timely reaction by us or present opportunities for us; • resolve the claims made against us in such proceedings for amounts not exceeding our recorded liabilities subject to compromise; • prevent third parties from obtaining Court orders or approvals that are contrary to our interests, such as the termination or shortening of the exclusivity period in the Chapter 11 Cases during which we can propose and seek confirmation of a comprehensive restructuring plan or the conversion of our Chapter 11 Cases to Chapter 7 liquidation cases; and • reject, repudiate or terminate adverse contracts. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events or publicity associated with our Creditor Protection Proceedings could adversely affect our sales and relationships with our customers, as well as with vendors and employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition, particularly if the Creditor Protection Proceedings are protracted. Also, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Courts, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. The Creditor Protection Proceedings raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The Creditor Protection Proceedings raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on market conditions and our ability to successfully develop and implement a comprehensive restructuring plan, improve profitability, obtain alternative financing to replace our debtor in possession financing arrangements, renew or extend our current debtor in possession financing arrangements and/or accounts receivable securitization program, as the case may be, if the need to do so should arise, and restructure our obligations in a manner that allows us to obtain confirmation of a plan or plans of reorganization by the Courts. However, it is not possible to predict whether the actions taken in our restructuring will result in improvements to our financial condition sufficient to allow us to continue as a going concern. Even assuming a successful emergence from the Creditor Protection Proceedings, there can be no assurance as to the long-term viability of all or any part of the enterprise. In addition, a long period of operating under the Creditor Protection Proceedings may exacerbate the potential harm to our business and further restrict our ability to pursue certain business strategies or require us to take actions that we otherwise would not. These challenges are in addition to business, operational and competitive challenges that we would normally face even absent the Creditor Protection Proceedings. We must restructure and transform our business and the assumptions underlying these efforts may prove to be inaccurate. We may not be able to successfully develop, obtain all requisite approvals for or implement a comprehensive restructuring plan. Failure to obtain the requisite approvals for, or failure to successfully develop and implement our comprehensive restructuring plan within the time granted by the Courts would, in all likelihood, lead to the liquidation of all of our assets. We are working to develop a comprehensive restructuring plan to successfully emerge from the Creditor Protection 19 Table of Contents Proceedings. Our senior management spends significant amounts of time developing the comprehensive restructuring plan instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. In connection with the development of the restructuring plan, we have made, and will continue to make, judgments as to whether we should further reduce, relocate or otherwise change our workforce. Costs incurred in connection with workforce reduction efforts may be higher than estimated. Furthermore, our workforce efforts may impair our ability to achieve our current or future business objectives. Any further workforce efforts including reductions may not occur on the expected timetable and may result in the recording of additional charges. Further, we have made, and will continue to make, judgments as to whether we should limit investment in, exit or dispose of certain businesses. The Creditor Protection Proceedings and the development of a restructuring plan may result in the sale or divestiture of assets or businesses, but we can provide no assurance that we will be able to complete any sale or divestiture on acceptable terms or at all. Any decision by management to further limit investment in, or exit or dispose of businesses may result in the recording of additional charges. We also must obtain the approvals of the respective Courts, creditors, the Creditors’ Committee and the Monitor, as applicable. We may not receive the requisite approvals and even if we do, a dissenting holder of a claim against us may challenge and ultimately delay the final approval and implementation of a comprehensive restructuring plan. If we are not successful in developing a comprehensive restructuring plan, or if we are successful in developing it but do not receive the requisite approvals, it is unclear whether we would be able to reorganize our businesses and what distributions, if any, holders of claims against us would receive. Should the exclusivity period or stay or moratorium period and any subsequent extension thereof not be sufficient to develop and implement a comprehensive restructuring plan or should such plan not be approved by creditors and the Courts and, in any such case, should we lose the protection of such stay or moratorium, substantially all of our debt obligations will become due and payable immediately, or subject to acceleration, creating an immediate liquidity crisis that in all likelihood would lead to the liquidation of all of our assets, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive if we were able to emerge as a viable, reorganized entity. A plan or plans of reorganization could result in holders of our liabilities and/or securities receiving no distribution. The ultimate recovery to creditors and/or shareholders, if any, will not be determined until confirmation of a plan or plans of reorganization. No assurance can be given as to what values, if any, will be ascribed to each of these constituencies or what types or amounts of distributions, if any, they will receive. A plan or plans of reorganization could result in holders of our liabilities and/or securities, including our common stock and exchangeable shares, receiving no distribution on account of their interests and cancellation of their holdings. A plan or plans of reorganization could also result in holders of our common stock and exchangeable shares being materially diluted or result in the cancellation of all of our equity securities for nominal or no consideration. Because of such possibilities, the value of our liabilities and securities, including our common stock and exchangeable shares, is highly speculative. Appropriate caution should be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in any of our liabilities and/or securities. At this time, there can be no assurance that we will be able to restructure as a going concern, as described above, or successfully propose or implement a plan or plans of reorganization. The terms of our current and any future financing arrangements may severely limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. We are subject to a number of significant restrictions under our debtor in possession financing arrangements and the accounts receivable securitization program. These restrictions limit our ability to: • incur additional debt; • incur liens or make negative pledges on our assets; • merge, consolidate or sell our assets; • pay dividends or repurchase or redeem capital stock; • make investments and acquisitions; • enter into certain transactions with shareholders and affiliates; • make capital expenditures; 20 Table of Contents • materially change our business; • amend our debt and other material agreements; or • make investments in unrestricted subsidiaries. Our failure to comply with these covenants, or similar covenants in future financing arrangements, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are unable to make these repayments or otherwise refinance these borrowings, our lenders could foreclose on our assets and could force us into a liquidation. Our common stock and the exchangeable shares of AbitibiBowater Canada Inc. are no longer traded on a national securities exchange and as a result, it is more difficult for shareholders to sell our common stock or the exchangeable shares of AbitibiBowater Canada Inc. and to obtain accurate quotations of the price of these securities. Due to the commencement of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, each of the NYSE and the TSX suspended the trading of our common stock at the opening of business on April 16, 2009 and delisted our common stock at the opening of business on May 21, 2009 and at the close of market on May 15, 2009, respectively. Our common stock is currently traded in the over-the-counter market and is quoted on the Pink Sheets and on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “ABWTQ.” In addition, the TSX suspended the trading of the exchangeable shares of AbitibiBowater Canada Inc. at the opening of business on April 16, 2009 and delisted such shares at the close of market on May 15, 2009. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to re-list our common stock or exchangeable shares on a national securities exchange or that the common stock will continue being quoted on the Pink Sheets. The trading of our common stock over-the-counter negatively impacts the trading price of our common stock. In addition, securities that trade over-the-counter are not eligible for margin loans and make our common stock subject to the provisions of Rule 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, commonly referred to as the “penny stock rule.” Over-the-counter transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions on a stock exchange. Many over-the-counter stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than stocks listed on an exchange. Accordingly, over-the-counter-traded shares are less liquid and are likely to be more volatile than exchange-traded stocks. The price of our common stock is currently electronically displayed in the U.S. on the Pink Sheets, which is a quotation medium that publishes market maker quotes for over-the-counter securities. It is not a stock exchange or listing service and is not owned, operated or regulated by any exchange. Investors are advised that we have not taken any steps to have our securities quoted on the Pink Sheets; there is no relationship, contractual or otherwise, between an issuer whose securities are quoted on the Pink Sheets and Pink Sheets LLC, which operates that market; and Pink Sheets LLC exercises no regulatory oversight over us. Our status on the Pink Sheets is dependent on market makers’ willingness to continue to provide the service of accepting trades of our common stock. During the pendency of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, our financial results may be volatile and may not reflect historical trends. During the pendency of the Creditor Protection Proceedings, we expect our financial results to continue to be volatile as asset impairments, asset dispositions, restructuring activities (including mill and paper machine closures and idlings), contract terminations, repudiations and rejections and claims assessments may significantly impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result, our historical financial performance is likely not indicative of our financial performance following the dates we initiated the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Further, we may sell or otherwise dispose of assets or businesses and liquidate or settle liabilities, with Court approval, for amounts other than those reflected in our historical financial statements. Any such sale or disposition and any comprehensive restructuring plan could materially change the amounts and classifications reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements, which do not give effect to any adjustments to the carrying value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary as a consequence of a comprehensive restructuring plan. Our liquidity position imposes significant risks to our operations. Because of the public disclosure of our liquidity issues, and despite the liquidity provided by our debtor in possession financing arrangements and the accounts receivable securitization program, our ability to maintain credit terms with our suppliers may become impaired. We may be required to pay cash in advance to additional vendors and may experience restrictions on the availability of trade credit, which would further reduce our liquidity. If liquidity problems persist, our suppliers could refuse to provide key products and services in the future. In addition, due to public perception of our financial condition and results of operations, in particular with regard to our potential failure to meet our debt obligations, some customers could become reluctant to enter into long-term agreements with us. 21 Table of Contents The Bowater DIP Agreement, defined in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7, provides for term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $206 million (the “Initial Advance”). Subject to the approval of the requisite lenders, the Bowater DIP Agreement also provides for an incremental term loan facility (the “Incremental Facility”) and an asset-based revolving credit facility (the “ABL Facility”) provided that the aggregate principal amount of the Initial Advance and the Incremental Facility may not exceed $360 million and the aggregate principal amount of the Initial Advance, Incremental Facility and the ABL Facility may not exceed $600 million. The outstanding principal amount of loans under the Bowater DIP Agreement, plus accrued and unpaid interest, will be due and payable on April 21, 2010, but is subject to an earlier maturity date under certain circumstances. The maturity date of the Bowater DIP Agreement, defined in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7, will extend by three months if we file with the Courts a plan or plans of reorganization that is (are) reasonably acceptable to the requisite lenders before the current maturity date of April 21, 2010, and a further three months if, as of the last day of the extension, we are using best efforts to pursue confirmation of the plan or plans of reorganization and seeking confirmation thereof by the Courts. The Abitibi and Donohue accounts receivable securitization program has a maximum purchase limit of approximately $270 million and expires on June 16, 2010, but may be terminated earlier with the occurrence of certain events of termination or the substantial consummation of a plan or plans of reorganization or a plan of compromise or arrangement confirmed by order of the Courts. We have the option to extend the termination date of the accounts receivable securitization program: (i) from June 16, 2010 to September 16, 2010 if we have filed a plan or plans of reorganization with the Courts that provide for the full repayment thereof in cash upon consummation and we have met certain other conditions and (ii) from September 16, 2010 to December 16, 2010 if we have not withdrawn the plan or plans of reorganization, and those plans have not been denied by either Court before September 16, 2010 and we have met certain other conditions. Upon the sale of our interest in MPCo, a portion of the proceeds was used to fund a $218 million ULC DIP Facility, as defined and discussed under “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7, of which we had drawn $123 million as of December 31, 2009. The ULC DIP Facility will terminate on December 31, 2010, but is subject to earlier termination under certain circumstances. There can be no assurance that cash generated from operations together with amounts available under these agreements will be sufficient to fund operations. In the event that cash flows and amounts available under these agreements are not sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements or if we are unable to meet the conditions to extend the financing arrangements if and when needed, we may be required to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance that such additional financing would be available or, if available, offered on acceptable terms. Failure to secure any necessary additional financing could have a material adverse impact on our operations. For additional information on our liquidity, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7. Risks Related to Our Business Developments in alternative media could continue to adversely affect the demand for our products, especially in North America, and our responses to these developments may not be successful. Trends in advertising, electronic data transmission and storage and the Internet could have further adverse effects on traditional print media, including our products and those of our customers, but neither the timing nor the extent of those trends can be predicted with certainty. Our newspaper, magazine and catalog publishing customers may increasingly use, and compete with businesses that use, other forms of media and advertising and electronic data transmission and storage, including television and the Internet, instead of newsprint, coated papers, uncoated specialty papers or other products made by us. The demand for certain of our products weakened significantly over the last several years. For example, industry statistics indicate that North American newsprint demand has been in decline for several years and has experienced annual declines of 5.6% in 2005, 6.1% in 2006, 10.3% in 2007, 11.2% in 2008 and 25.3% in 2009. Third-party forecasters indicate that these declines in newsprint demand could continue in 2010 or beyond due to conservation measures taken by publishers, reduced North American newspaper circulation, less space devoted to advertising and substitution to other uncoated mechanical grades. One of our responses to the declining demand for our products has been to curtail our production capacity. See “Business Strategy and Outlook” in Item 7 for further information regarding the actions we took in 2007, 2008 and 2009 to reduce our production capacity, such as permanent closures or indefinite idling of certain facilities and machines, as well as market-related downtime at other facilities. It may become necessary to curtail even more production or permanently shut down even more machines or facilities. Such further curtailments and shutdowns would become increasingly likely as North American newsprint demand continues to decline or if market conditions otherwise worsen. Curtailments or shutdowns could result in goodwill or asset impairments and additional costs at the affected facilities, and could negatively impact our cash flows and materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Bankruptcy of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Trends discussed in the immediately preceding risk factor continue to impact the operations of our newsprint customers. If a customer is forced into bankruptcy as a result of these trends, any pre-petition receivables related to that customer may not be realized. In addition, such a customer may choose to reject its contracts with us, which could result in a larger pre-petition claim. 22 Table of Contents Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates can affect our competitive position, selling prices and manufacturing costs. We compete with North American, European and Asian producers in most of our product lines. Our products are sold and denominated in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars and selected foreign currencies. A substantial portion of our manufacturing costs are denominated in Canadian dollars. In addition to the impact of product supply and demand, changes in the relative strength or weakness of such currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar, may also affect international trade flows of these products. A stronger U.S. dollar may attract imports into North America from foreign producers, increase supply and have a downward effect on prices, while a weaker U.S. dollar may encourage U.S. exports and increase manufacturing costs that are in Canadian dollars or other foreign currencies. Variations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the Euro and the currencies of Canada, Sweden and certain Asian countries, will significantly affect our competitive position compared to many of our competitors. We are particularly sensitive to changes in the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar. The impact of these changes depends primarily on our production and sales volume, the proportion of our production and sales that occur in Canada, the proportion of our financial assets and liabilities denominated in Canadian dollars, our hedging levels and the magnitude, direction and duration of changes in the exchange rate. We expect exchange rate fluctuations to continue to impact costs and revenues; however, we cannot predict the magnitude or direction of this effect for any quarter, and there can be no assurance of any future effects. During the last two years, the relative value of the Canadian dollar ranged from US$1.02 in March 2008 to US$0.77 in October 2008 and back to US$0.95 as of December 31, 2009. Based on exchange rates and operating conditions projected for 2010, and prior to the impact of our plan or plans of reorganization, we project that a one-cent increase in the Canadian-U.S. dollar exchange rate would decrease our pre-tax income (loss) for 2010 by approximately $22 million. If the Canadian dollar continues to remain strong versus the U.S. dollar, it could influence the foreign exchange rate assumptions that are used in our evaluation of long-lived assets for impairment and consequently, result in asset impairment charges. See the discussion under “Critical Accounting Estimates — Long-lived assets, other than goodwill” in Item 7. We may not be successful in our strategy of increasing our share of coated and specialty papers and competing in growth markets with higher returns. One of the components of our long-term strategy is to improve our portfolio of businesses by focusing on coated and specialty papers and competing more aggressively in growth markets with higher returns. There are risks associated with the implementation of this strategy, which is complicated and involves a substantial number of mills, machines and personnel. To the extent we are unsuccessful in achieving this strategy, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We face intense competition in the forest products industry and the failure to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We compete with numerous forest products companies, many of which have greater financial resources than we do. There has been a continued trend toward consolidation in the forest products industry, leading to new global producers. These global producers are typically large, well-capitalized companies that may have greater flexibility in pricing and financial resources for marketing, investment and expansion than we do. The markets for our products are all highly competitive. Actions by competitors can affect our ability to sell our products and can affect the volatility of the prices at which our products are sold. While the principal basis for competition is price, we also compete on the basis of customer service, quality and product type. There has also been an increasing trend toward consolidation among our customers. With fewer customers in the market for our products, our negotiation position with these customers could be weakened. In addition, the Creditor Protection Proceedings and their associated risks and uncertainties may be used by our competitors in an attempt to divert our existing customers or may discourage future customers from purchasing our products under long-term agreements. In addition, our industry is capital intensive, which leads to high fixed costs. Some of our competitors may be lower-cost producers in some of the businesses in which we operate. Global newsprint capacity, particularly Chinese and European newsprint capacity, has been increasing, which is expected to result in lower prices, volumes or both for our exported products. We believe that new hardwood pulp capacity at South American pulp mills has unit costs that are significantly below those of our hardwood kraft pulp mills. Other actions by competitors, such as reducing costs or adding low-cost capacity, may adversely affect our competitive position in the products we manufacture and consequently, our sales, operating income and cash flows. We may not be able to compete effectively and achieve adequate levels of sales and product margins. Failure to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 23 Table of Contents The forest products industry is highly cyclical. Fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could result in small or negative profit margins, lower sales volumes and curtailment or closure of operations. The forest products industry is highly cyclical. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in capacity and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for our products. Most of our paper and wood products are commodities that are widely available from other producers and even our coated and specialty papers are susceptible to these fluctuations. Because our commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand. The overall levels of demand for the products we manufacture and distribute and consequently, our sales and profitability, reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in part on general economic conditions in North America and worldwide. In 2008 and 2009, we experienced lower demand and decreased pricing for our wood products due to a weaker U.S. housing market. As a result, during 2008, we announced the curtailment of annualized capacity of approximately 1.3 billion board feet of lumber in the provinces of Quebec and British Columbia and during 2009, we continued our wood products’ operating rate at extremely low levels. We are not expecting any significant improvements in the U.S. housing market in 2010, but transaction prices have shown some improvement in early 2010. As such, we are continuing to conduct an in-depth review of our wood products business with the objective of selling non-core assets, consolidating facilities and curtailing or closing non-contributing operations. Curtailments or shutdowns could result in asset impairments at the affected facilities and could materially affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our manufacturing businesses may have difficulty obtaining wood fiber at favorable prices, or at all. Wood fiber is the principal raw material we use in our business. We use both virgin fiber (wood chips and logs) and recycled fiber (old newspapers and magazines) as fiber sources for our paper mills. The primary source for wood fiber is timber. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in Canada and the United States. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation, litigation advanced by Aboriginal groups and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest biodiversity and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires could also affect timber supplies. Availability of harvested timber may further be limited by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, drought, flooding and other natural and man-made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. As is typical in the industry, we do not maintain insurance for any loss to our outstanding timber from natural disasters or other causes. Wood fiber is a commodity and prices historically have been cyclical, are subject to market influences and may increase in particular regions due to market shifts. Pricing of recycled fiber is also subject to market influences and has experienced significant fluctuations. During the last two years, the prices of old newspapers have ranged from a high of $195 average per ton during the third quarter of 2008 to a low of $76 average per ton during the first quarter of 2009 and averaged $131 per ton during the fourth quarter of 2009. There can be no assurance that prices of recycled fiber will remain at their current level. Any sustained increase in fiber prices would increase our operating costs and we may be unable to increase prices for our products in response. Although we believe that the balance of fiber supply between our internal sources and the open market is adequate to support our current wood products and paper and pulp production requirements, there can be no assurance that access to fiber will continue at the same levels achieved in the past. The cost of softwood fiber and the availability of wood chips may be affected. If our cutting rights pursuant to the forest licenses or forest management agreements are reduced or if any third-party supplier of wood fiber stops selling or is unable to sell wood fiber to us, our financial condition or operating results could suffer. An increase in the cost of our purchased energy, chemicals and other raw materials would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing our margins. Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy, such as electricity, natural gas, fuel oil, coal and wood waste. We buy energy and raw materials, including chemicals, wood, recovered paper and other raw materials, primarily on the open market. The prices for raw materials and energy are volatile and may change rapidly, directly affecting our results of operations. The availability of raw materials and energy may also be disrupted by many factors outside our control, adversely affecting our operations. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years and prices every year since 2005 have exceeded long-term historical averages. As a result, fluctuations in energy prices will impact our manufacturing costs and contribute to earnings volatility. 24 Table of Contents We are a major user of renewable natural resources such as water and wood. Accordingly, significant changes in climate and forest diseases or infestation could affect our financial condition or results of operations. The volume and value of timber that we can harvest or purchase may be limited by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, drought, flooding and other natural and man-made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. As is typical in the industry, we do not maintain insurance for any loss to our standing timber from natural disasters or other causes. Also, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to maintain our rights to utilize water or to renew them at conditions comparable to those currently in effect. For our commodity products, the relationship between industry supply and demand for these products, rather than changes in the cost of raw materials, will determine our ability to increase prices. Consequently, we may be unable to pass along increases in our operating costs to our customers. Any sustained increase in energy, chemical or raw material prices without any corresponding increase in product pricing would reduce our operating margins and potentially require us to limit or cease operations of one or more of our machines. We could experience disruptions in operations or increased labor costs due to labor disputes. We believe we are the largest employer in the Canadian pulp and paper sector and have the sector’s largest representation by unions. A significant number of our collective bargaining agreements with respect to our paper operations in Eastern Canada expired at the end of April 2009, as have those for the Calhoun and Catawba facilities. The Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada (the “CEP”) has selected contract talks with us to set the industry-wide pattern for contracts that will replace current expired agreements. We recently reached an agreement in principle with representatives of both the CEP and the Confederation des syndicats nationaux (the “CSN”), subject to a ratification vote of their members and to the resolution of multi-party pension deficit discussions that are continuing between the CCAA filers and various governments and unions in Canada. The members of the CSN have ratified that agreement. The employees at the Mokpo facility have complied with all conditions necessary to strike, but the possibility of a strike or lockout of those employees is not clear; we served the six-month notice necessary to terminate the collective bargaining agreement related to the Mokpo facility on June 19, 2009. While negotiations with the unions in the past have resulted in collective bargaining agreements, as is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected employees. Renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wage or benefit costs. Therefore, we could experience a disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. While negotiations are either underway or will begin shortly in each of the foregoing cases, we are currently reviewing all of our collective bargaining agreements in the context of the Creditor Protection Proceedings with a view to reducing costs. At this time, we cannot predict the impact of the Creditor Protection Proceedings on our labor costs, labor relations or any potential disruption of operations. Our operations require substantial capital and we may not have adequate capital resources to provide for all of our capital requirements. Our businesses are capital intensive and require that we regularly incur capital expenditures in order to maintain our equipment, increase our operating efficiency and comply with environmental laws. In addition, significant amounts of capital may be required to modify our equipment to produce alternative grades with better demand characteristics or to make significant improvements in the characteristics of our current products. If our available cash resources and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to fund our operating needs and capital expenditures, we would have to obtain additional funds from borrowings or other available sources or reduce or delay our capital expenditures. Current global credit conditions and the downturn in the global economy have resulted in a significant decline in the credit markets and the overall availability of credit. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms or at all. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our equipment as we require, we may become unable to manufacture products that compete effectively. At this time, we cannot predict the impact of the Creditor Protection Proceedings on our capital expenditure program. Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations dealing with trade, employees, transportation, taxes, timber and water rights and the environment. Changes in these laws or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement have required in the past, and could require in the future, substantial expenditures by us and adversely affect our results of operations. For example, changes in environmental laws and regulations have in the past, and could in the future, require us to spend substantial amounts to comply with restrictions on air emissions, wastewater discharge, waste management and landfill sites, including remediation costs. Environmental laws are becoming increasingly stringent. Consequently, our compliance and remediation costs could increase materially. 25 Table of Contents Changes in the political or economic conditions in Canada, the United States or other countries in which our products are manufactured or sold could adversely affect our results of operations. We manufacture products in Canada, the United States and South Korea and sell products throughout the world. Paper prices are tied to the health of the economies of North and South America, Asia and Europe, as well as to paper inventory levels in these regions. The economic and political climate of each region has a significant impact on our costs and the prices of, and demand for, our products. Changes in regional economies or political instability, including acts of war or terrorist activities, can affect the cost of manufacturing and distributing our products, pricing and sales volume, directly affecting our results of operations. Such changes could also affect the availability or cost of insurance. We may be required to record additional environmental liabilities. We are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, timber harvesting, the storage, management and disposal of hazardous substances and waste, the clean-up of contaminated sites, landfill operation and closure, forestry operations, endangered species habitat, and health and safety. As an owner and operator of real estate and manufacturing and processing facilities, we may be liable under environmental laws for cleanup and other costs and damages, including tort liability and damages to natural resources, resulting from past or present spills or releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our current or former properties. We may incur liability under these laws without regard to whether we knew of, were responsible for, or owned the property at the time of, any spill or release of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our property, or at properties where we arranged for the disposal of regulated materials. Claims may arise out of currently unknown environmental conditions or aggressive enforcement efforts by governmental or private parties. As a result of the above, we may be required to record additional environmental liabilities. For additional information, see “Environmental Matters” in Item 7. We are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. Our operations are subject to climate variations, which impact the productivity of forests, the distribution and abundance of species and the spread of disease or insect epidemics, which may adversely or positively affect timber production. Over the past several years, changing weather patterns and climatic conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, hailstorms, wildfires, snow and ice storms, which could also affect our woodlands or cause variations in the cost for raw materials such as fiber. Changes in precipitation resulting in droughts could adversely affect our hydroelectric facilities’ production, increasing our energy costs, while increased precipitation may generally have positive effects. To the extent climate change impacts raw material availability or our electricity production, it may also impact our costs and revenues. Furthermore, should financial markets view climate change as a financial risk, our ability to access capital markets or to receive acceptable terms and conditions could be affected. We may be required to record additional long-lived asset impairment charges. Losses related to impairment of long-lived assets are recognized when circumstances indicate the carrying values of the assets may not be recoverable, such as continuing losses in certain locations. When certain indicators that the carrying value of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable are triggered, we evaluate the carrying value of the asset group in relation to its expected undiscounted future cash flows. If the carrying value of the asset group is greater than the expected undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment charge is recorded based on the excess of the long-lived asset group’s carrying value over its fair value. For information regarding long-lived asset impairment charges recorded in 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Note 4, “Creditor Protection Proceedings Related Disclosures – Reorganization items, net,” and Note 7, “Closure Costs, Impairment of Assets Other than Goodwill and Other Related Charges,” to our Consolidated Financial Statements. It is possible that we could record additional non-cash long-lived asset impairment charges in future periods when there is a triggering event. We have net liabilities with respect to our pension plans and the actual cost of our pension plan obligations could exceed current provisions. As of December 31, 2009, our defined benefit pension plans were under-funded by an aggregate of approximately $424 million on a financial accounting basis. Our future funding obligations for the defined benefit pension plans depend upon changes to the level of benefits provided by the plans, the future performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine minimum funding levels, actuarial data and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates) and any changes in government laws and regulations. Any adverse change to any of these 26 Table of Contents factors may require us to increase our cash contributions to our pension plans and those additional contributions could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. We obtained an order from the Canadian Court on May 8, 2009 specifying that the payment of special contributions for past service to Canadian pension plans maintained by Abitibi and Bowater could be suspended. Abitibi and Bowater continue to make their respective Canadian pension plan contributions for current service costs. The determination of projected benefit obligations and the recognition of expenses related to our pension plan obligations are dependent on assumptions used in calculating these amounts. These assumptions include, among other things, expected rates of return on plan assets, which are developed using our historical experience applied to our target allocation of investments in conjunction with market-related data for each individual country in which such plans exist. All assumptions are reviewed periodically with third-party actuarial consultants and adjusted as necessary. Any deterioration in the global securities markets could impact the value of the assets included in our defined benefit pension plans, which could materially impact future minimum cash contributions. We continue to evaluate our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations in the context of the Creditor Protection Proceedings and as a result, our current expectations regarding such obligations in 2010 and beyond are uncertain at this time and are subject to change. Multi-party pension deficit discussions are continuing between the CCAA filers and various governments and unions in Canada as we work on developing the reorganization strategy. We may not be compensated for the expropriation of certain assets by the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador. On December 16, 2008, following our December 4, 2008 announcement of the permanent closure of our Grand Falls newsprint mill, the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada passed legislation under Bill 75 to expropriate, among other things, all of our timber rights, water rights, leases and hydroelectric assets in the province of Newfoundland and Labrador, whether partially or wholly owned through our subsidiaries and affiliated entities. The Government of Newfoundland and Labrador also announced that it does not plan to compensate us for the loss of the water and timber rights, but has indicated that it may compensate us for certain of our hydroelectric assets. However, it has made no commitment to ensure that such compensation would represent the fair market value of such assets. On February 25, 2010, we filed a Notice of Arbitration under NAFTA, which asserts that the expropriation was arbitrary, discriminatory and illegal. Our claim seeks direct compensation for damages of approximately Cdn$500 million, plus additional costs and relief. Although we believe that the Canadian Government will be required to compensate us for the fair market value of the expropriated assets, there can be no assurance that it will and we have not recognized an asset for such claim in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We continue to reach out to the Canadian Government in an effort to come to a negotiated settlement and avoid protracted NAFTA proceedings. See Item 1, “Business – Expropriation,” for additional information. We could be compelled to remediate certain sites we formerly owned and/or operated in the province of Newfoundland and Labrador. On November 12, 2009, the province of Newfoundland and Labrador issued five orders under section 99 of its Environmental Protection Act, which we appealed unsuccessfully, to require us to proceed immediately with the environmental remediation of various sites formerly owned or operated by us (some of which the province has expropriated with Bill 75). It also filed a motion with the Canadian Court for a declaratory judgment to the effect that its remediation orders are not subject to the stay of proceedings granted pursuant to the Initial Order and are not subject to compromise under a plan of arrangement because they consist of non-monetary injunctive orders. The province also contends that the definition of “claim” in the Initial Order is overly broad and inconsistent with the definition in the CCAA, and therefore unconstitutional. The province of British Columbia intervened to the proceedings in support of Newfoundland and Labrador’s constitutional argument. We contest vigorously the motion on the grounds that the remediation orders are essentially monetary in nature (or, if anything, contingent claims) and that the province should have filed a claim in the Creditor Protection Proceedings to recover the estimated costs of the remediation work. If the Canadian Court rules in favor of the province of Newfoundland and Labrador, we could be compelled to remediate those sites, which could require us to, among other things, prepare a plan of remediation, obtain the province’s approval of the plan and finance and carry out the remediation work to the satisfaction of the province by January 15, 2011, or by a later date acceptable to the province. We cannot provide a reliable estimate of the potential costs of any remediation at this time, but the financial impact of an adverse decision could materially affect our results of operations and financial position. The hearing took place on February 24, 25 and 26, 2010; the matter is currently before the Canadian Court and the parties expect a decision imminently. The continued decline in the global economy and the Creditor Protection Proceedings may significantly inhibit our ability to sell assets. Non-core asset sales have been and may continue to be a source of additional liquidity, subject to the approval of the applicable Court or the Monitor, as applicable. We periodically review timberlands and other assets and sell such assets as a source of additional liquidity. However, as a result of the current global economy and credit conditions, it may be difficult for potential purchasers to obtain the financing necessary to buy such assets. As a result, we may be forced to sell the assets for significantly lower amounts than planned or may not be able to sell them at all. No assurances can be provided that the Courts or the Monitor, as applicable, will approve such sales or as to the timing of any such approvals. 27 Table of Contents We could lose any or all of our equity interest in ANC. On June 15, 2009, we filed a motion with the U.S. Court to reject the Call Agreement in respect of ANI, an indirect subsidiary of Woodbridge and our partner in ANC. ANC is the partnership that owns and operates the Augusta newsprint mill. The Call Agreement obligated ACSC to either buy out ANI at a price well above market, or risk losing all of its equity in the joint venture pursuant to forced sale provisions. The U.S. Court granted our motion on October 27, 2009 and approved our rejection of the Call Agreement. Our counterparties to the Call Agreement filed a Notice of Appeal with the U.S. Court on November 3, 2009. If the U.S. Court does not uphold the U.S. Court’s judgment and a forced sale is consummated, there can be no assurance that we would be able to recover any or all of our 52.5% equity interest in ANC, which as of December 31, 2009, was approximately $42 million. Also, on March 9, 2010, Woodbridge filed a motion in the U.S. Court to force ACSC to reject the partnership agreement governing ANC. If ACSC were forced to reject the partnership agreement, the future of the Augusta mill would be uncertain. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 