ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In particular, the risks described below could cause actual events to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K. Developments in alternative media could continue to adversely affect the demand for our products, especially in North America, and our responses to these developments may not be successful. Trends in advertising, electronic data transmission and storage and the Internet could have further adverse effects on the demand for traditional print media, including our products and those of our customers. Neither the timing nor the extent of those trends can be predicted with certainty. Our newspaper, magazine and catalog publishing customers may increasingly use, and compete with businesses that use, other forms of media and advertising and electronic data transmission and storage, including television, electronic readers and the Internet, instead of newsprint, coated papers, uncoated specialty papers or other products made by us. The demand for certain of our products weakened significantly over the last several years. For example, industry statistics indicate that North American newsprint demand has been in decline for several years and has experienced annual declines of 6.1% in 2006, 10.3% in 2007, 11.2% in 2008, 25.3% in 2009 and 6.0% in 2010. Third-party forecasters indicate that these declines in newsprint demand could continue in 2011 and beyond due to conservation measures taken by publishers, reduced North American newspaper circulation, less advertising and substitution to other uncoated mechanical grades. One of our responses to the declining demand for our products has been to curtail our production capacity. If demand continues to decline for our products, it may become necessary to curtail production even further or permanently shut down even more machines or facilities. Curtailments or shutdowns could result in asset impairments and additional cash costs at the affected facilities, including restructuring charges and exit or disposal costs, and could negatively impact our cash flows and materially affect our results of operations or financial condition. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates can affect our competitive position, selling prices and manufacturing costs. We compete with North American, European and Asian producers in most of our product lines. Our products are sold and denominated in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars and selected foreign currencies. A substantial portion of our manufacturing costs are denominated in Canadian dollars. In addition to the impact of product supply and demand, changes in the relative strength or weakness of such currencies, particularly the U.S. dollar, may also affect international trade flows of these products. A stronger U.S. dollar may attract imports into North America from foreign producers, increase supply and have a downward effect on prices, while a weaker U.S. dollar may encourage U.S. exports and increase manufacturing costs that are in Canadian dollars or other foreign currencies. Variations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the Euro and the currencies of Canada, Sweden and certain Asian countries, will significantly affect our competitive position compared to many of our competitors. We are sensitive to changes in the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar. The impact of these changes depends primarily on our production and sales volume, the proportion of our production and sales that occur in Canada, the proportion of our financial assets and liabilities denominated in Canadian dollars, our hedging levels and the magnitude, direction and duration of changes in the exchange rate. We expect exchange rate fluctuations to continue to impact costs and revenues; however, we cannot predict the magnitude or direction of this effect for any quarter, and there can be no assurance of any future effects. During the last two years, the relative value of the Canadian dollar ranged from US$0.78 in March 2009 to US$1.00 as of December 31, 2010. Based on exchange rates and operating conditions projected for 2011, we project that a one-cent increase in the Canadian-U.S. dollar exchange rate would decrease our pre-tax income (loss) for 2011 by approximately $22 million. 13 Table of Contents If the Canadian dollar continues to remain strong or gets stronger versus the U.S. dollar, it could influence the foreign exchange rate assumptions that are used in our evaluation of long-lived assets for impairment and consequently, result in asset impairment charges. We face intense competition in the forest products industry and the failure to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We compete with numerous forest products companies, many of which have greater financial resources than we do. There has been a continued trend toward consolidation in the forest products industry, leading to new global producers. These global producers are typically large, well-capitalized companies that may have greater flexibility in pricing and financial resources for marketing, investment and expansion than we do. The markets for our products are all highly competitive. Actions by competitors can affect our ability to sell our products and can affect the volatility of the prices at which our products are sold. While the principal basis for competition is price, we also compete on the basis of customer service, quality and product type. There has also been an increasing trend toward consolidation among our customers. With fewer customers in the market for our products, our negotiating position with these customers could be weakened. In addition, our industry is capital intensive, which leads to high fixed costs. Some of our competitors may be lower-cost producers in some of the businesses in which we operate. Global newsprint capacity, particularly Chinese and European newsprint capacity, has been increasing, which may result in lower prices, volumes or both for our exported products. We believe that hardwood pulp capacity at South American pulp mills has unit costs that are significantly below those of our hardwood kraft pulp mills. Other actions by competitors, such as reducing costs or adding low-cost capacity, may adversely affect our competitive position in the products we manufacture and consequently, our sales, operating income and cash flows. We may not be able to compete effectively and achieve adequate levels of sales and product margins. Failure to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The forest products industry is highly cyclical. Fluctuations in the prices of, and the demand for, our products could result in small or negative profit margins, lower sales volumes and curtailment or closure of operations. The forest products industry is highly cyclical. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in capacity and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for our products. Most of our paper and wood products are commodities that are widely available from other producers and even our coated and specialty papers are susceptible to these fluctuations. Because our commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand. The overall levels of demand for the products we manufacture and distribute and consequently, our sales and profitability, reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in part on general economic conditions in North America and worldwide. In 2008 and 2009, we experienced lower demand and decreased pricing for our wood products due to a weaker U.S. housing market. As a result, during 2008, we announced the curtailment of annualized capacity of approximately 1.3 billion board feet of lumber in the provinces of Quebec and British Columbia and during 2009 and 2010, we continued our wood products’ operating rate at extremely low levels. We did not see any significant improvement in the U.S. housing market in 2010 and there is significant uncertainty with respect to near-term prospects for recovery in the market. Curtailments or shutdowns could result in asset impairments at the affected facilities and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to service our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to fund our day-to-day operations or to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures or to sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, such alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The credit agreement that governs our ABL Credit Facility and the indenture related to the 2018 Notes (each as defined below in Item 7 under “Liquidity and Capital Resources”) restrict our ability to dispose of 14 Table of Contents assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations when due. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to service our obligations under the 2018 Notes and the ABL Credit Facility, we would be in default. If the default is not cured, holders of the 2018 Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under the ABL Credit Facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, our secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing such borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. The credit agreement that governs the ABL Credit Facility and the 2018 Notes indenture may restrict our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. The 2018 Notes indenture and the credit agreement that governs our ABL Credit Facility contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to: incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; pay dividends or make distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; incur liens; restrict dividends, loans or asset transfers from our subsidiaries; sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to another person; enter into transactions with affiliates; and enter into new lines of business. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement that governs our ABL Credit Facility could require us to maintain a specified financial ratio if the availability falls below a certain threshold, as well as satisfy other financial condition tests. Additionally, we are required to maintain a specified minimum liquidity of at least $200 million if the provinces of Quebec and Ontario do not adopt the pension funding relief regulations described in Item 7 under “Employee Benefit Plans – Resolution of Canadian pension situation.” Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet them. A breach of the covenants under the 2018 Notes indenture or under the credit agreement that governs the ABL Credit Facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such default may allow the holders to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the credit agreement that governs our ABL Credit Facility would permit the 15 Table of Contents lenders under our ABL Credit Facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our ABL Credit Facility, those lenders could proceed against the collateral over which they have priority granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our lenders under the ABL Credit Facility or holders of the 2018 Notes accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, there can be no assurance that we and our subsidiaries would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, we may be limited in how we conduct our business, unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our plans. Our operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to maintain adequate capital resources to provide for all of our capital requirements. Our businesses are capital intensive and require regular capital expenditures in order to maintain our equipment, increase our operating efficiency and comply with environmental laws. In addition, significant amounts of capital may be required to modify our equipment to produce alternative grades with better demand characteristics or to make significant improvements in the characteristics of our current products. If our available cash resources and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to fund our operating needs and capital expenditures, we would have to obtain additional funds from borrowings or other available sources or reduce or delay our capital expenditures. Recent global credit conditions and the downturn in the global economy have resulted in a significant decline in the credit markets and the overall availability of credit. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, limit our operations and impair our ability to raise additional capital. See “–If we incur substantial additional debt, our degree of leverage may limit our financial and operating activities” above. If this occurs, we may not be able to obtain additional funds on favorable terms or at all. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our equipment as we require, we may become unable to manufacture products that compete effectively. An inability to make required capital expenditures in a timely fashion could have a material adverse effect on our growth, business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not be successful in implementing our strategies to increase our return on capital. We are targeting a higher return on capital, which may require significant capital investments with uncertain return outcomes. Our strategies include improving our business mix, reducing our costs and increasing operational flexibility, targeting export markets with better newsprint demand and exploring strategic alternatives. There are risks associated with the implementation of these strategies, which are complicated and involve a substantial number of mills, machines, capital and personnel. To the extent we are unsuccessful in achieving these strategies, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our manufacturing businesses may have difficulty obtaining wood fiber at favorable prices, or at all. Wood fiber is the principal raw material we use in our business. We use both virgin fiber (wood chips and logs) and recycled fiber (old newspapers and magazines) as fiber sources for our paper mills. The primary source for wood fiber is timber. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in Canada and the United States. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation or regulation, litigation advanced by Aboriginal groups and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, forest management practices, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest biodiversity and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires could also affect timber supplies. Availability of harvested timber may further be limited by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, drought, flooding and other natural and man-made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. As is typical in the industry, we do not maintain insurance for any loss to our outstanding timber from natural disasters or other causes. Wood fiber is a commodity and prices historically have been cyclical, are subject to market influences and may increase in particular regions due to market shifts. Pricing of recycled fiber is also subject to market influences and has experienced significant fluctuations. During the last two years, the prices of old newspapers have ranged from a low of $76 average per ton during the first quarter of 2009 to a high of $153 average per ton during the fourth quarter of 2010. There can be no assurance that prices of recycled fiber will remain at levels that are economical for us to use. Any sustained increase in fiber prices would increase our operating costs and we may be unable to increase prices for our products in response, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. There can be no assurance that access to fiber will continue at the same levels as in the past. The cost of softwood fiber and the availability of wood chips may be affected. If our cutting rights pursuant to the forest licenses or forest management agreements are reduced or if any third-party supplier of wood fiber stops selling or is unable to sell wood fiber to us, our financial condition or operating results could suffer. 16 Table of Contents A sustained increase in the cost of purchased energy and other raw materials would lead to higher manufacturing costs, thereby reducing our margins. Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy, such as electricity, natural gas, fuel oil, coal and wood waste. We buy energy and raw materials, including chemicals, wood, recovered paper and other raw materials, primarily on the open market. The prices for raw materials and energy are volatile and may change rapidly, directly affecting our results of operations. The availability of raw materials and energy may also be disrupted by many factors outside our control, adversely affecting our operations. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years and prices every year since 2005 have exceeded long-term historical averages. As a result, fluctuations in energy prices will impact our manufacturing costs and contribute to earnings volatility. We are a major user of renewable natural resources such as water and wood. Accordingly, significant changes in climate and forest diseases or infestation could affect our financial condition or results of operations. The volume and value of timber that we can harvest or purchase may be limited by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, drought, flooding and other natural and man-made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. As is typical in the industry, we do not maintain insurance for any loss to our standing timber from natural disasters or other causes. Also, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our water rights or to renew them at conditions comparable to those currently in effect. For our commodity products, the relationship between industry supply and demand for these products, rather than changes in the cost of raw materials, will determine our ability to increase prices. Consequently, we may be unable to pass along increases in our operating costs to our customers. Any sustained increase in energy, chemical or raw material prices without any corresponding increase in product pricing would reduce our operating margins and potentially require us to limit or cease operations of one or more of our machines. The global financial crisis and economic downturn could continue to negatively impact our liquidity, results of operations or financial condition and it may cause a number of the risks that we currently face to increase in likelihood, magnitude and duration. The global financial crisis and economic downturn has adversely affected economic activity globally. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Customers across all of our businesses have been delaying and reducing their expenditures in response to deteriorating macroeconomic and industry conditions and uncertainty, which has had a significant negative impact on the demand for our products and therefore, the cash flows of our businesses, and could continue to have a negative impact on our liquidity and capital resources. Our newsprint, coated papers and specialty papers demand has been and is expected to be negatively impacted by higher unemployment and lower gross domestic product growth rates. We believe that some consumers have reduced newspaper and magazine subscriptions as a direct result of their financial circumstances in the current economic downturn, contributing to lower demand for our products by our customers. Additionally, advertising demand in magazines and newspapers, including classified advertisements, and demand from automotive dealerships and real estate agencies have been impacted by higher unemployment, lower automobile sales and the distressed real estate environment. Lower demand for print advertisements leads to fewer pages in newspapers, magazines and other advertisement circulars and periodicals, decreasing the demand for our products. Furthermore, consumer and advertising-driven demand for our paper products may not recover, even with an economic recovery, as purchasing habits may be permanently changed with a prolonged economic downturn. The economic downturn has had a profoundly negative impact on the U.S. housing industry, which sets the prices for many of our lumber and other wood-based products. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, U.S. housing starts declined from approximately 1.4 million in 2007 to approximately 0.5 million in 2010, reflecting a 61% decline. With this low level of primary demand for our lumber and other wood-based products, our wood products business may continue to operate at a low level until there is a meaningful recovery in new residential construction demand. With less demand for saw logs at sawmills throughout North America and lower saw log prices, our timberland values may decline, impacting some of our financial options. Additionally, with less lumber demand, sawmills have generated less sawdust and wood chips and shavings that we use for fiber for our mills. The price of sawdust and wood chips for our mills that need to purchase their furnish on the open market may also continue to be at elevated levels, until there is a meaningful recovery in new residential demand in the U.S. 17 Table of Contents Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations dealing with trade, employees, transportation, taxes, timber and water rights, pension funding and the environment. Changes in these laws or regulations or their interpretations or enforcement have required in the past, and could require in the future, substantial expenditures by us and adversely affect our results of operations. For example, changes in environmental laws and regulations have in the past, and could in the future, require us to spend substantial amounts to comply with restrictions on air emissions, wastewater discharge, waste management, landfill sites, including remediation costs, the Environmental Protection Agency’s new greenhouse gas regulations and Boiler MACT. Environmental laws are becoming increasingly stringent. Consequently, our compliance and remediation costs could increase materially. Changes in the political or economic conditions in Canada, the United States or other countries in which our products are manufactured or sold could adversely affect our results of operations. We manufacture products in Canada, the United States and South Korea and sell products throughout the world. Paper prices are tied to the health of the economies of North and South America, Asia and Europe, as well as to paper inventory levels in these regions. The economic and political climate of each region has a significant impact on our costs and the prices of, and demand for, our products. Changes in regional economies or political instability, including acts of war or terrorist activities, can affect the cost of manufacturing and distributing our products, pricing and sales volume, directly affecting our results of operations. Such changes could also affect the availability or cost of insurance. We may be required to record additional environmental liabilities. We are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, timber harvesting, the storage, management and disposal of hazardous substances and waste, the clean-up of contaminated sites, landfill and lagoon operation and closure, forestry operations, endangered species habitat and health and safety. As an owner and operator of real estate and manufacturing and processing facilities, we may be liable under environmental laws for cleanup and other costs and damages, including tort liability and damages to natural resources, resulting from past or present spills or releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our current or former properties. We may incur liability under these laws without regard to whether we knew of, were responsible for, or owned the property at the time of, any spill or release of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our property, or at properties where we arranged for the disposal of regulated materials. Claims may also arise out of currently unknown environmental conditions or aggressive enforcement efforts by governmental or private parties. As a result of the above, we may be required to record additional environmental liabilities. For information regarding environmental matters to which we are subject, see Note 22, “Commitments and Contingencies – Environmental matters,” to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change. Our operations are subject to climate variations, which impact the productivity of forests, the distribution and abundance of species and the spread of disease or insect epidemics, which may adversely or positively affect timber production. Over the past several years, changing weather patterns and climatic conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, hailstorms, wildfires, snow and ice storms, which could also affect our woodlands or cause variations in the cost for raw materials, such as fiber. Changes in precipitation resulting in droughts could adversely affect our hydroelectric facilities’ production, increasing our energy costs, while increased precipitation may generally have positive effects. To the extent climate change impacts raw material availability or our electricity production, it may also impact our costs and revenues. Furthermore, should financial markets view climate change as a financial risk, our ability to access capital markets or to receive acceptable terms and conditions could be affected. 18 Table of Contents We may be required to record long-lived asset impairment charges. Losses related to impairment of long-lived assets are recognized when circumstances indicate the carrying values of the assets may not be recoverable, such as continuing losses in certain locations. When certain indicators that the carrying value of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable are triggered, we evaluate the carrying value of the asset group in relation to our expected undiscounted future cash flows. If the carrying value of the asset group is greater than the expected undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment charge is recorded based on the excess of the long-lived asset group’s carrying value over its fair value. If there were to be a triggering event, it is possible that we could record non-cash long-lived asset impairment charges in future periods, which would be recorded as operating expenses and would directly and negatively impact our reported operating income (loss) and net income (loss). We may be required to record additional valuation allowances against our recorded deferred income tax assets. We recorded significant tax attributes (deferred income tax assets) in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2010, which attributes would be available to offset any future taxable income. If we later determine that we are unable to use the full extent of these tax attributes as a result of sustained cumulative future taxable losses, we could be required to record additional valuation allowances for the unusable portion of the tax attributes. Such valuation allowances, if taken, would be recorded as a charge to income tax expense and would negatively impact our reported net income (loss). If expected regulations are not adopted in a timely fashion in Quebec and Ontario to implement special funding parameters in respect of our material Canadian registered pension plans, or if we do not meet certain related undertakings, this could have a material impact on our financial condition. Pension plan funding obligations, including special funding obligations in respect of solvency deficits within pension plans, are generally determined based on applicable law. We reached agreements with the provinces of Quebec and Ontario for special funding parameters in respect of our material Canadian registered pension plans, 15 of which are defined benefit plans registered in Quebec and Ontario and currently have a material aggregate solvency deficit. The agreements provide for a number of undertakings by AbiBow Canada and the adoption of funding relief regulations in those provinces consistent with those special funding parameters, as further described in Item 7 under “Employee Benefit Plans – Resolution of Canadian pension situation.” There can be no definitive assurance that the regulations will be adopted in a timely fashion, or that if adopted, that they will be consistent with our expectation, either of which could have a material impact on our financial condition. If and when the regulations are adopted, we could lose their benefit if we fail to comply or fail to meet our undertakings in the related agreements. A $286 million reserve has been established against AbiBow Canada’s borrowing base under the ABL Credit Facility until these regulations are adopted, which restricts its ability to draw on the ABL Credit Facility, should the need to do so arise. As of December 31, 2010, AbiBow Canada had no availability under the ABL Credit Facility. Furthermore, if as of April 30, 2011, the regulations discussed above have not been adopted, we will be required pursuant to the ABL Credit Facility to maintain a specified minimum liquidity of at least $200 million until their adoption. This could have a material impact on our financial condition. It is also possible that provinces other than Quebec and Ontario could attempt to assert jurisdiction and to compel additional funding of certain of our Canadian registered pension plans in respect of plan members associated with sites we formerly operated in their respective provinces. We could be compelled to make additional environmental remediation payments in respect of certain sites we formerly owned and/or operated in the province of Newfoundland and Labrador. On March 31, 2010, the Canadian Court dismissed a motion for declaratory judgment brought by the province of Newfoundland and Labrador, awarding costs in our favor, and thus confirmed our position that the five orders the province issued under section 99 of its Environmental Protection Act on November 12, 2009 were subject to the stay of proceedings pursuant to the Creditor Protection Proceedings. The province of Newfoundland and Labrador’s orders could have required us to proceed immediately with the environmental remediation of various sites we formerly owned or operated, some of which the province expropriated in December 2008. The Quebec Court of Appeal denied the province’s request for leave to appeal on May 18, 2010. An appeal of that decision is now pending before the Supreme Court of Canada, which will hear the matter on November 16, 2011. If leave to appeal is ultimately granted and the appeal is allowed, we could be required to make additional environmental remediation payments without regard to the Creditor Protection Proceedings. Any additional environmental remediation payments required to be made by us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. For information regarding our environmental matters, see Note 22, “Commitments and Contingencies – Environmental matters,” to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 19 Table of Contents Continued weakness in the global economy may significantly inhibit our ability to sell assets. Non-core asset sales have been and may continue to be a source of additional liquidity and may be a source of debt repayment in the future. We expect to continue to review non-core assets and seek to divest those that no longer fit within our long-term strategic business plan. However, as a result of the current global economy and credit conditions, it may be difficult for potential purchasers to obtain the financing necessary to buy such assets. As a result, we may be forced to sell the assets for significantly lower amounts than planned or may not be able to sell them at all. We could experience disruptions in operations or increased labor costs due to labor disputes. As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 10,500 people, of whom approximately 7,500 were represented by bargaining units. Our unionized employees are represented predominantly by the CEP in Canada and predominantly by the United Steelworkers International in the U.S. The employees at the Mokpo facility have complied with all conditions necessary to strike, but the possibility of a strike or lockout of those employees is not clear; we served the six-month notice necessary to terminate the collective bargaining agreement related to the Mokpo facility in June 2009. We have collective bargaining agreements in place covering the majority of our unionized employees, many of which have been recently renewed and revised. However, there can be no assurance that we will maintain continuously satisfactory agreements with all of our unionized employees or that we will finalize satisfactory agreements with the remaining unionized employees (which include approximately 300 wood workers in Quebec). Should we be unable to do so, it could result in strikes or other work stoppages by affected employees, which could cause us to experience a disruption of operations and affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could disrupt our supply chain and the delivery of our products and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The success of our businesses is largely contingent on the availability of direct access to raw materials and our ability to ship products on a timely basis. As a result, any event that disrupts or limits transportation or delivery services would materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, our operating results are dependent on the continued operation of our various production facilities and the ability to complete construction and maintenance projects on schedule. Material operating interruptions at our facilities, including interruptions caused by the events described below, may materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole, during and after the period of such operational difficulties. Although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in our business and the transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. These potential hazards include: explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtimes; supplier disruptions; labor shortages or other labor difficulties; transportation interruptions; remediation complications; discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; other environmental risks; and terrorist acts. Some of these hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage and may result in suspension of operations, the shutdown of affected facilities and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Furthermore, except for claims that were addressed by the Plans of Reorganization, we will also continue to be subject to present and future claims with respect to workplace exposure, exposure of contractors on our premises, as well as other persons located nearby, workers’ compensation and other matters. We maintain property, business interruption, product, general liability, casualty and other types of insurance, including pollution and legal liability, that we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, including losses resulting from natural disasters, war risks or terrorist acts. Changes in insurance market conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies to increase substantially and in some instances, for certain insurance to become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, we might not be able to finance the amount of the uninsured liability on terms acceptable to us or at all, and might be obligated to divert a significant portion of our cash flow from normal business operations. 20 Table of Contents Shared control or lack of control of joint ventures may delay decisions or actions regarding the joint ventures. A portion of our operations currently are, and may in the future be, conducted through joint ventures, where control may be exercised by or shared with unaffiliated third parties. We cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default or bankruptcy of joint venture partners. The joint ventures that we do not control may also lack adequate internal controls systems. In the event that any of our joint venture partners do not observe their joint venture obligations, it is possible that the affected joint venture would not be able to operate in accordance with our business plans or that we would be required to increase our level of commitment in order to give effect to such plans. As with any such joint venture arrangements, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and operations of the joint ventures and in turn our business and operations. Bankruptcy of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. Trends in alternative media continue to impact the operations of our newsprint customers. See “–Developments in alternative media could continue to adversely affect the demand for our products, especially in North America, and our responses to these developments may not be successful” above. If a customer is forced into bankruptcy as a result of these trends, any receivables related to that customer prior to the date of the bankruptcy filing of such customer may not be realized. In addition, such a customer may choose to reject its contracts with us, which could result in a larger claim arising prior to the date of the bankruptcy filing of such customer that also may not be realized. Because our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect adjustments related to the implementation of the Plans of Reorganization and the application of fresh start accounting as a result of our emergence from the Creditor Protection Proceedings, the consolidated financial statements of the Successor Company will not be comparable to the consolidated financial statements of the Predecessor Company. As of December 31, 2010, we applied fresh start accounting, pursuant to which the reorganization value, as derived from the enterprise value established in the Plans of Reorganization, was allocated to our assets and liabilities based on their fair values (except for deferred income taxes and pension and OPEB projected benefit obligations) in accordance with FASB ASC 805, “Business Combinations” (“FASB ASC 805”), with the excess of net asset values over the reorganization value recorded as an adjustment to equity. The amount of deferred income taxes recorded was determined in accordance with FASB ASC 740, “Income Taxes” (“FASB ASC 740”). The amount of pension and OPEB projected benefit obligations recorded was determined in accordance with FASB ASC 715, “Compensation – Retirement Benefits” (“FASB ASC 715”). Additionally, the implementation of the Plans of Reorganization, among other things, resulted in a new capital structure that replaced our historical pre-petition capital structure. The implementation of the Plans of Reorganization and the application of fresh start accounting materially changed the carrying amounts and classifications reported in our consolidated financial statements and resulted in the Company becoming a new entity for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, our Consolidated Financial Statements for periods prior to December 31, 2010 will not be comparable to our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010 or for periods subsequent to December 31, 2010. For additional information regarding the impact of the implementation of the Plans of Reorganization and the application of fresh start accounting on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2010, see Note 4, “Creditor Protection Proceedings Related Disclosures – Fresh start accounting,” to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 21 Table of Contents Certain liabilities were not fully extinguished as a result of our emergence from the Creditor Protection Proceedings. While a significant amount of our existing liabilities were discharged upon emergence from the Creditor Protection Proceedings, a number of obligations remain in effect following the effective date of the Plans of Reorganization. Various agreements and liabilities remain in place, such as certain employee benefit and pension obligations, potential environmental liabilities related to sites in operation or formerly owned or operated by us and other contracts that, even if they were modified during the Creditor Protection Proceedings, may still subject us to substantial obligations and liabilities. Other claims, such as those alleging toxic tort or product liability, or environmental liability related to formerly owned or operated sites, were not extinguished. Other circumstances in which claims and other obligations that arose prior to Creditor Protection Proceedings were not discharged include instances where a claimant had inadequate notice of the Creditor Protection Proceedings or a valid argument as to when its claim arose or as a matter of law or otherwise. It is unlikely that we will pay dividends with respect to our common stock in the foreseeable future. It is unlikely that we will pay any dividends with respect to our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of the board of directors and will be dependent on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, business prospects and other factors that the board of directors considers relevant. The 2018 Notes indenture and the credit agreement that governs the ABL Credit Facility contain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. As a result of the consummation of the Plans of Reorganization, there are significant holders of our common stock. Upon consummation of the Plans of Reorganization, certain holders of claims received distributions of our common stock representing a substantial percentage of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If these holders of claims obtained a sufficiently sizeable position of our common stock, such holders could be in a position to influence the outcome of actions requiring shareholder approval, including, among other things, the election of board members. This concentration of ownership could also facilitate or hinder a negotiated change of control and consequently, impact the value of our common stock. Furthermore, the possibility that one or more holders of a significant number of shares of our common stock may sell all or a large portion of its shares of our common stock in a short period of time may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 