Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted by the economic downturn and our level of indebtedness increases our sensitivity to this risk. The global economy is experiencing a severe and prolonged recession as a result of the deterioration in the capital markets and related financial crisis. Both our customers and suppliers have felt the impact of this downturn. For example, several U.S. airlines have implemented capacity reductions and higher air fares in the face of slowing customer demand and are under increased pressure to reduce their overall distribution costs. As a result, our suppliers could attempt to terminate or renegotiate their agreements with us on more favorable terms to them, which could reduce the revenue we generate from those agreements. The weakness in the economy has also negatively impacted consumer spending patterns, including as it relates to the travel products offered on our websites. If consumer demand for travel and the products offered on our websites continues to decrease, our revenues may decline. If economic conditions do not improve, or worsen, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, a substantial or prolonged material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition could affect our ability to satisfy the financial covenants in our senior secured credit agreement, which could result in our having to seek amendments or waivers from our lenders to avoid the termination of commitments and/or the acceleration of the maturity of amounts that are outstanding under our term loan and revolving credit facility. The cost of our obtaining an amendment or waiver could be significant, and could substantially increase our cost of borrowing over the remaining term of our senior secured credit agreement. Further, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain an amendment or waiver. If our lenders were unwilling to enter into an amendment or provide a waiver, all amounts outstanding under our term loan and revolving credit facility would become immediately due and payable. Our liquidity has been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted. The weak and volatile conditions in the global financial markets and financial sector have caused a substantial deterioration in the capital markets which has diminished the availability of funds and increased the cost of raising capital. In response, many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards and reduced, and in some cases ceased, funding borrowers. We have already experienced the negative effects of this deterioration on our liquidity. Specifically, the bankruptcy filing by Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., which held a $12.5 million commitment under our revolving credit facility, effectively reduced the total availability under our revolving credit facility from $85 million to $72.5 million. If any of our other lenders are unable or unwilling to fund their respective commitments, and we are unable to replace these lenders, the amount available to us for borrowings and letters of credit under our revolving credit facility would be further reduced. In the future, we may require more liquidity than is available to us under our revolving credit facility as a result of changes in our business model, changes to payment terms or other supplier-imposed requirements, lower than anticipated operating cash flows or other unanticipated events, such as unfavorable outcomes in our legal proceedings. For example, the liquidity provided by cash flows from our merchant model bookings could be negatively impacted if our suppliers, including credit card processors and hotels, changed their payment terms or imposed other requirements on us, such as requiring us to provide letters of credit or to establish cash reserves, or if our merchant model bookings declined as a result of current economic conditions or other factors. 12 Table of Contents If in the future, we require more liquidity than is available to us under our revolving credit facility, we cannot be certain that funding would be available to us at all or on attractive or acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to take advantage of potential business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and liquidity. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if the financial condition of one or more of our major suppliers, including airlines and car rental companies, deteriorates or restructures its operations. In the past several years, several major U.S. airlines have either filed for bankruptcy protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code, recently exited bankruptcy or discussed publicly the risks of bankruptcy. In addition, the economic downturn has severely impacted the automobile industry, including car rental companies, as illustrated by the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing by Advantage Rent A Car in December 2008. We depend on a relatively small number of airlines for a significant portion of our net revenue. In addition, although the net revenue we generate from car rental reservations is significantly smaller than our net revenue from air transactions, our car net revenues are derived from a relatively small number of car rental companies. As a result of this dependence, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if the financial condition of one or more of the major airlines or car rental companies were to deteriorate or in the event of supplier consolidation in either of these industries. Potential bankruptcies and consolidation in our suppliers’ industries could result in capacity reductions and increased prices, which may in turn have a negative impact on demand for travel products. The travel industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to effectively compete in the future. We operate in the highly competitive travel industry. Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to compete effectively against numerous competitors, including other online travel companies, meta-search companies, travel research companies, suppliers and online Internet companies, several of which have significantly greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we have. Factors affecting our competitive success include price, availability of travel products, ability to package travel products across multiple suppliers, brand recognition, customer service and customer care, service fees, ease of use, accessibility and reliability. If we are not able to compete effectively against our competitors, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. In particular, our results of operations would be negatively impacted if competitive dynamics in the industry caused us to reduce or eliminate the service fees we charge our customers. We charge a service fee on many of our websites, and in exchange, provide our customers the ability to book their travel reservation and access to various services, including our OrbitzTLC customer care platform and Orbitz Price Assurance. During 2008, certain online travel companies reduced or eliminated booking fees on retail airline tickets and hotel rooms, which has created uncertainty around the sustainability of booking fees. In addition, suppliers have increasingly focused on distributing their products through their own websites, which typically do not charge a booking or service fee, and search and meta-search sites are growing in popularity and may drive more traffic directly to the websites of suppliers or competitors that charge lower or no fees. Although some of our primary competitors also charge booking or service fees, we believe our business and results of operations would be more adversely impacted, relative to certain of our competitors, if competitive dynamics caused us to reduce or eliminate these fees. If, as a result of the limitations contained in our GDS service agreement or otherwise, we are unable to implement certain changes to our business in an effort to absorb the impact of the reduction or elimination of these fees or are unable to increase revenue from other sources, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. 13 Table of Contents Our revenue is derived from the travel industry and a prolonged substantial decrease in travel volume, particularly air travel, as well as other industry trends, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue is derived from the worldwide travel industry. As a result, our revenue is directly related to the overall level of travel activity, particularly air travel volume, and is therefore significantly impacted by declines in or disruptions to travel in the U.S., Europe and the Asia Pacific region, which are our key regions, due to factors entirely outside of our control. These factors include: • general economic conditions, particularly the current economic downturn which has caused a decline in travel volume; • global security issues, political instability, acts or threats of terrorism, hostilities or war and other political issues that could adversely affect travel volume in our key regions; • epidemics or pandemics; • natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes; • the financial condition of suppliers, including the airline and hotel industry, and the impact of their financial condition on the cost and availability of air travel and hotel rooms; • changes to regulations governing the airline and travel industry; • fuel prices; • work stoppages or labor unrest at any of the major airlines or airports; • increased airport security that could reduce the convenience of air travel; • travelers’ perceptions of the occurrence of travel related accidents or the scope, severity and timing of the other factors described above; and • changes in occupancy and room rates achieved by hotels. If there is a prolonged substantial decrease in travel volumes, particularly air travel and hotel stays, for these or any other reasons, it would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We carry significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet, and if a future impairment were to occur based on a decline in our stock price, projected results of operations, cash flows from operations or otherwise, we may be required to record a significant charge against earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2008, in response to changes in the economic environment and the prolonged decline in our market capitalization, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $210 million related to our goodwill and $74 million related to our indefinite-lived intangible assets. As of December 31, 2008, after giving effect to this impairment charge, we had goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets of $1,181 million, which represented approximately 74% of our total consolidated assets. Under generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets must be tested for impairment annually or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment may exist. Factors that could indicate that our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may be impaired include a prolonged decline in our stock price and market capitalization, lower than projected operating results and cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. Due to the current economic uncertainty and other factors, we cannot predict whether our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets will be further impaired in future periods or whether a significant charge against our earnings may be required, which could be higher than the charge recorded during fiscal year 2008. If we are required to record an impairment charge for our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in the future, this would adversely impact our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could limit the manner in which we operate our business. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $614 million of outstanding debt under our senior secured credit agreement. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • it requires us to use a portion of our cash flows from operations to make debt service payments, which reduces the funds available to us for other purposes such as potential acquisitions and capital expenditures; • because we have a higher level of indebtedness than some of our competitors, it puts us at a competitive disadvantage and reduces our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the economy or our industry, including increased competition; and • it may make us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. The credit agreement requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and to not exceed a maximum total leverage ratio, which declines over the term of the agreement. If we fail to comply with these covenants and we are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, our lenders could accelerate the maturity of all amounts outstanding under our term loan and revolving credit facility and could proceed against the collateral securing this indebtedness. Furthermore, if this were to occur, there is no assurance that alternative financing would be available to us at all or at favorable terms, particularly in the wake of the current economic environment. In addition, restrictive covenants in our credit agreement specifically limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or enter into guarantees; • enter into sale or leaseback transactions; • make new investments, loans or acquisitions; • sell our assets; • engage in mergers, consolidations, liquidations or dissolutions; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. As a result, we may operate our business differently than if we were not subject to these covenants and restrictions. We rely on Travelport to issue letters of credit on our behalf under its credit facility. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $67 million of letters of credit were issued by Travelport on our behalf. Under the terms of the Separation Agreement, as amended, Travelport has agreed to continue to issue and renew letters of credit on our behalf through at least March 31, 2010 and thereafter so long as Travelport and its affiliates (as defined therein) own at least 50% of our voting stock. Although Travelport is obligated to issue letters of credit on our behalf, this obligation is subject to certain conditions, including a $75 million limitation on the aggregate amount of letters of credit that Travelport is required to issue on our behalf at any given point in time. If we do not have a separate letter of credit facility in place if or when Travelport is no longer obligated to issue letters of credit on our behalf, or if we exceed the $75 million limitation or if we require letters of credit denominated in foreign currencies, we would be required to issue letters of credit under our revolving credit facility, which could significantly reduce our borrowing capacity under our 15 Table of Contents revolving credit facility. If letters of credit were issued under our revolving credit facility, our ability to borrow amounts to fund our working capital and other needs could be severely limited. Certain of our international subsidiaries have a history of significant operating losses, and our inability to improve their scale and profitability could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have historically incurred significant operating losses at our European subsidiaries and may continue to experience operating losses in the future, particularly since we expect to continue to incur significant marketing and other expenses in order to grow our international business. As a result, we have made, and may continue to make, significant investments in their operations by using a portion of the cash flow generated from our domestic operations or making additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility. There can be no assurance that our European subsidiaries will be profitable in the future or that any profits generated by them will be sufficient to recover our investment in them. The profitability of our European business depends to a large extent on the scale of its operation. If we fail to achieve the desired scale, we may not be able to effectively compete in the European marketplace and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our international operations are subject to additional risks not encountered when doing business in the U.S., including foreign exchange risk, and our exposure to these risks will increase as we expand our international operations. Our international operations involve risks that may not exist when doing business in the U.S. With employees in approximately 20 countries outside the U.S., we generated 21% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 from our international operations. In order to achieve widespread acceptance in each country we enter, we must tailor our services to the unique customs and cultures of that country. Learning the customs and cultures of various countries, particularly with respect to travel patterns and practices, is a difficult task and our failure to do so could slow our growth in international markets. In addition, we are subject to certain risks as a result of having international operations and from having operations in multiple countries generally, including: • difficulties in staffing and managing operations due to distance, time zones, language and cultural differences, including issues associated with establishing management systems infrastructure in various countries; • differences and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and exposure to local economic conditions; • increased risk of piracy and limits on our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights; • preference of local populations for local providers; • restrictions on the repatriation of non-U.S. investments and earnings back to the U.S., including withholding taxes imposed by certain foreign jurisdictions; • diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights; and • currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent we are not able to effectively mitigate or eliminate these risks, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, our international operations require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international regulations. For example, we must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures and ensure that our employees and agents comply with the 16 Table of Contents FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions. Our ability to attract, train and retain executives and other qualified employees is critical to our results of operations and future growth. We depend substantially on the continued services and performance of our key executives, senior management and skilled personnel, particularly our professionals with experience in our industry and our information technology and systems. Any of these individuals may chose to terminate their employment with us at any time. The specialized skills we require can be difficult and time-consuming to acquire and, as a result, these skills are often in short supply. Our recent reductions in workforce, our failure to meet threshold performance targets required to pay employee bonuses and the implementation of a Company-wide salary freeze may also negatively impact our ability to attract, hire and retain skilled personnel. A lengthy period of time may be required to hire and train replacement personnel when skilled personnel depart the Company. Our inability to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products and services to market or impairing the success of our operations or prospects for future growth. We rely on information technology to operate our businesses and maintain our competitiveness, and any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our business. We depend upon the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems, including technologies and systems utilized for reservations, communications, procurement and administrative systems. Certain of our businesses also utilize third-party fare search solutions and GDSs or other technologies. As our operations grow in both size and scope, we must continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer our customers enhanced products, services, features and functionality, while maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. Our future success also depends on our ability to adapt our services and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving industry standards while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to competitive service and product offerings and the changing demands of the marketplace. In particular, expanding our systems and infrastructure to meet any potential increases in business volume will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources before those increases materialize, with no assurance that they actually will. Furthermore, our use of this technology could be challenged by claims that we have infringed upon the patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of others. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems, obtain new technologies and systems, or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as our competitors or in a cost-effective manner. Also, we may fail to achieve the benefits anticipated or required from any new technology or system, or we may be unable to devote financial resources to new technologies and systems in the future. If any of these events occur, our business could suffer. We are dependent upon third-party systems and service providers, and any disruption or adverse change in their businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business. We currently rely on certain third-party computer systems, service providers and software companies, including the electronic central reservation systems and GDSs of the airline, hotel and car rental industries. In particular, our businesses rely on third parties to: • conduct searches for airfares; • process hotel room transactions; • process credit card payments; and • provide computer infrastructure critical to our business. 17 Table of Contents In addition, we rely on a group of business process outsourcing companies based in India to provide us with call center and telesales services, back office administrative services such as ticketing fulfillment, hotel rate loading and quality control, loyalty program support and information technology services, as well as financial services such as accounts payable processing and bank reconciliations. Any interruption in these third-party services could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, we currently utilize GDSs, including Worldspan, Galileo and Amadeus, to process a significant portion of our bookings, and any interruption or deterioration in our GDS partners’ products or services could prevent us from searching and booking airline and car rental reservations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success is dependent on our ability to maintain relationships with our technology partners. In the event our arrangements with any of these third parties are impaired or terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative source of systems support on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms, which could result in significant additional costs or disruptions to our business. In addition, some of our agreements with third-party service providers can be terminated by those parties on short notice and, in many cases, provide no recourse for service interruptions. A termination of these services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. System interruptions and the lack of redundancy may cause us to lose customers or business opportunities. Our inability to maintain and improve our information technology systems and infrastructure may result in system interruptions. System interruptions and slow delivery times, unreliable service levels, prolonged or frequent service outages, or insufficient capacity may prevent us from efficiently providing services to our customers, which could result in our losing customers and revenue or incurring liabilities. In addition to the risks associated with inadequate maintenance or upgrading, our information technologies and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from various causes, including: • natural disasters, war and acts of terrorism; • power losses, computer systems failure, Internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator error, losses and corruption of data, and similar events; • computer viruses, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information and other physical or electronic breaches of security; and • the failure of third-party systems or services that we rely upon to maintain our own operations. We do not have backup systems for certain critical aspects of our operations. For example, if we were unable to connect to certain third-party systems, such as GDSs, due to failure of our systems, our ability to process bookings could be significantly or completely impaired. Many other systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient. In addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage or insurance limits to compensate for losses from a major interruption, and remediation may be costly and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Any extended interruption in our technologies or systems could significantly curtail our ability to conduct our businesses and generate revenue. We depend on our supplier relationships and adverse changes in these relationships or our inability to enter into new relationships could negatively affect our access to travel offerings and reduce our revenue. In addition to airlines, we rely significantly on our relationships with hotel and other suppliers. Adverse changes in any of these relationships, or the inability to enter into new relationships, could negatively impact the availability and competitiveness of travel products offered on our websites. Our arrangements with suppliers may not remain in effect on current or similar terms, and the net impact of future pricing options may adversely impact our revenue. In addition, suppliers are increasingly focused on driving online demand to their own websites. Suppliers typically do not charge a service fee for booking products on their own websites, and as a result, their travel offerings may be more attractive to consumers. 18 Table of Contents We are in continuous dialogue with our major hotel suppliers about the nature and extent of their participation in our various distribution channels. The significant reduction by any of our major suppliers in their business with our companies for a sustained period of time or their complete withdrawal of doing business with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we currently depend on one of Travelport’s businesses, Gulliver’s Travel Associates, or GTA, for access to hotel inventory in certain international regions while we work to increase our own direct relationships with hotel suppliers in these regions. If we are unable to successfully establish direct relationships with hotel suppliers or to replace our access to hotel inventory currently provided by GTA in a timely manner or on comparable terms, we may not be able to operate our business effectively, and our financial performance may suffer. Our arrangements with the airlines generally do not require the airlines to provide any specific quantity of airline tickets or to make tickets available for any particular route or at any particular price. In addition, certain of the airlines may terminate their agreements with us for any reason or no reason prior to the scheduled expiration date upon thirty days’ prior notice. The significant reduction on the part of any of our major suppliers of their participation in our system for a sustained period of time or their complete withdrawal could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our relationships with the airlines may be impacted by developments in the airline industry, such as increasing consolidation or shifts in market share from full-service to low-cost carriers. In October 2008, Delta Air Lines, Inc. merged with Northwest Airlines, Inc. to become the world’s largest airline, and there have been reports about potential merger discussions among certain of the remaining major U.S. airlines. In addition, the airline industry has experienced a shift in market share from full-service carriers to low-cost carriers that focus primarily on discount fares to leisure destinations and we expect this trend to continue. Some low-cost carriers, such as Southwest Airlines, have not historically distributed their tickets through us or other third-party intermediaries. Because our GDS service agreement with Travelport limits our ability to modify our existing agreements with the airlines or to enter into new, direct distribution arrangements, we may have limited flexibility to respond to developments in the airline industry, and we may be forced to forgo new partnering opportunities. See “We are dependent on Travelport for our GDS services” below. The limitations imposed by the GDS service agreement may place us at a competitive disadvantage and could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Our business and financial performance could be negatively impacted by adverse tax events. New sales, use, occupancy or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time. Those enactments could adversely affect our domestic and international business operations and our business and financial performance. Further, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us. These events could require us to pay additional tax amounts on a prospective or retroactive basis, as well as require us to pay fees, penalties and/or interest for past amounts deemed to be due. In addition, our revenue may decline because we could have to charge more for our products and services. New, changed, modified or newly interpreted or applied tax laws could also increase our compliance, operating and other costs, as well as the costs of our products or services. Further, these events could decrease the capital we have available to operate our business. Any or all of these events could adversely impact our business and financial performance. We and others in the online travel industry are currently subject to various lawsuits related to hotel occupancy tax in numerous jurisdictions in the U.S., and other jurisdictions may be considering similar lawsuits. An adverse ruling in the existing hotel occupancy tax cases could require us to pay tax retroactively and prospectively, and possibly penalties, interest and/or fees. We have also been contacted by several municipalities or other taxing bodies concerning our possible obligation with respect to local hotel occupancy or related taxes, and certain municipalities have begun audit proceedings and some have issued assessments against the Company. If the Company is found to be subject to the hotel occupancy tax ordinance by a taxing authority and appeals the decision in court, certain jurisdictions may attempt to require us to provide financial 19 Table of Contents security or pay the assessment in order to challenge the tax assessment in court. The proliferation of new hotel occupancy tax cases or audit proceedings could result in substantial additional defense costs. These events could also adversely impact our business and financial performance (see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”). If our uncertain tax positions are resolved for amounts different than our estimates, we will be required to adjust the related assets and liabilities which may have a material impact on our provision for income taxes and results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, we have recorded estimated liabilities of $6 million for uncertain income tax positions under Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” (“FIN 48”). Our assessment of uncertain tax positions requires that we make estimates and judgments about the application of tax law, the expected resolution of uncertain tax positions and other matters. If our uncertain tax positions are resolved for amounts different than our estimates, we will be required to adjust the amounts of the related assets and liabilities, which may have a material impact on our provision for income taxes and our results of operations. Our businesses are highly regulated, and any failure to comply with such regulations or any changes in such regulations could adversely affect us. We operate in a highly regulated industry both in the U.S. and internationally. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in or the enactment of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us, which could decrease demand for our products and services, increase costs or subject us to additional liabilities. Moreover, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. Accordingly, these regulatory authorities could prevent or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us if our practices were found not to comply with the then current regulatory or licensing requirements or any interpretation of such requirements by the regulatory authority. Our failure to comply with any of these requirements or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, the various regulatory regimes to which we are subject may conflict so that compliance with the regulatory requirements in one jurisdiction may create regulatory issues in another. Our business is subject to laws and regulations relating to our revenue generating and marketing activities, including those prohibiting unfair and deceptive advertising or practices. Our travel services are subject to regulation and laws governing the offer of travel products and services, including laws requiring us to register as a “seller of travel” in various jurisdictions and to comply with certain disclosure requirements. As an OTC that offers customers the ability to book air travel in the U.S., we are also subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation, which has authority to enforce economic regulations and may assess civil penalties or challenge our operating authority. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations may subject us to fines, penalties and potential criminal violations. Any changes to these laws or regulations or any new laws or regulations may make it more difficult for us to operate our businesses and may have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements, differing views of personal privacy rights or security breaches. In the processing of our traveler transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable information. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. This government action is typically intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information, including credit card information, that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if domestic or international legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices, or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business. 20 Table of Contents Travel companies have also been subjected to investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to allegedly improper disclosure of passenger information. As privacy and data protection have become more sensitive issues, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of travel data. These and other privacy concerns, including security breaches, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to risks associated with online commerce security and credit card fraud. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is essential in maintaining customer and supplier confidence in our services. Substantial or ongoing security breaches, whether instigated internally or externally on our system or other Internet-based systems, could significantly harm our business. We currently require customers to guarantee their transactions with their credit cards online. We rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential customer information, including credit card numbers. It is possible that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology that we use to protect customer transaction data. We incur substantial expense to protect against and remedy security breaches and their consequences. However, our security measures may not prevent security breaches. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our remediation plan to address these potential exposures. A party (whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third party) that is able to circumvent our security systems could steal proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in our operations. Security breaches also could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Security breaches could also cause customers and potential customers to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the demand for our products and services. Moreover, public perception concerning security and privacy on the Internet could adversely affect customers’ willingness to use our websites. A publicized breach of security, even if it only affects other companies conducting business over the Internet, could inhibit the growth of the Internet and, therefore, our services as a means of conducting commercial transactions. We are involved in various legal proceedings and may experience unfavorable outcomes, which could harm us. We are involved in various legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, actions relating to intellectual property, in particular patent infringement claims against us, tax matters, employment law and other negligence, breach of contract and fraud claims, that involve claims for substantial amounts of money or for other relief or that might necessitate changes to our business or operations. The defense of these actions may be both time consuming and expensive. If any of these legal proceedings were to result in an unfavorable outcome, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We may not protect our intellectual property effectively, which would allow competitors to duplicate our products and services. This could make it more difficult for us to compete with them. Our success and ability to compete depend, in part, upon our technology and other intellectual property, including our brands. Among our significant assets are our software and other proprietary information and intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and patent laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect these assets. However, we have a limited number of patents, and our software and related documentation are protected principally under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection, and the laws of some jurisdictions provide less protection for our proprietary rights than the laws of the U.S. We have granted Travelport an exclusive license to our supplier link technology, including our patents related to that technology. Under the exclusive license, Travelport has the first right to enforce those patents, and so we will only be able to bring actions to enforce those patents if Travelport declines to do so. Unauthorized use and misuse of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the legal remedies available to us may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by unauthorized use. 21 Table of Contents Further, intellectual property challenges have been increasingly brought against members of the travel industry. These legal actions have in the past and might in the future result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, we may need to take legal action in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, and these enforcement actions could result in the invalidation or other impairment of intellectual property rights we assert. We have a limited operating history as stand-alone public company, and our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. Our historical financial information does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as an independent company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future, primarily as a result of the following factors: • Our businesses were previously operated by Cendant and Travelport as part of their broader corporate organizations, rather than as an independent company. Travelport or one of its affiliates historically performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to, tax administration, certain governance functions (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and internal audit) and external reporting. Our historical combined consolidated results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Travelport for these and similar functions. These allocations are less than the comparable expenses we believe we would have incurred had we operated as an independent company during those periods. • When our businesses were integrated with the other businesses of Travelport, we shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships, as well as pursued integrated strategies with Travelport and other businesses, including the GDS and wholesale travel businesses. Although we entered into a transition services agreement and other agreements with Travelport in connection with our initial public offering, these temporary arrangements may not capture the benefits our businesses previously enjoyed as a result of being integrated with the other businesses of Travelport. The loss of these benefits could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Previously, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, had been satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of Travelport. Other than letters of credit issued by Travelport on our behalf, Travelport no longer provides us with funds to finance our working capital or other cash requirements. Without the opportunity to obtain financing from Travelport, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. As a relatively new independent public company, we will expend additional time and resources to comply with rules and regulations governing public and listed companies, including rules related to internal controls over financial reporting, and our failure to comply with these rules may lead investors to lose confidence in our financial information. As a relatively new independent public company, under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, we continue to implement additional corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules. Compliance with these public company obligations has increased our legal and financial compliance costs and placed significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial, accounting and information systems, as compared to the periods during which we were not an independent public company. In particular, for the year ended December 31, 2008, our management was required for the first time to conduct an annual evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and to issue a report on our 22 Table of Contents internal controls in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, we were required to have our independent public accounting firm attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or, if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an attestation and an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, our investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. We have identified significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, we were required to make an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Although our auditors and we did not identify any matters constituting “material weaknesses” under the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“PCAOB”), our auditors and we have identified certain matters involving our internal control over financial reporting that constitute “significant deficiencies.” The PCAOB defines a material weakness as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of our financial reporting. The significant deficiencies identified result from inconsistent application of controls related to the reconciliation of certain accounts at our HotelClub subsidiary. Although we are in the process of developing and implementing a remediation plan to address these deficiencies and believe they will be remediated, additional measures may be necessary, and the measures we expect to take to improve these deficiencies may not be sufficient to address the issues identified. Prior to the assessment performed in connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, we had identified several material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Although our auditors and we believe that we have addressed the material weaknesses, the measures we have taken may not be effective, and we may not be able to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will not identify other material weaknesses or additional significant deficiencies in the future. If we are unable to correct the identified deficiencies in our internal controls in a timely manner, or if we identify other material weaknesses or deficiencies in the future, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information accurately and within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC would be adversely affected. This failure could negatively affect the market price and trading liquidity of our common stock, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, subject us to civil and criminal investigations and penalties, and adversely impact our business and financial condition. Travelport’s controlling holders control us and may have strategic interests that differ from ours or our other shareholders. Currently, Travelport and investment funds that own and/or control Travelport’s ultimate parent company beneficially own approximately 58% of our outstanding common stock and therefore, indirectly control us and all of our subsidiaries. As a result of this ownership, Travelport’s controlling holders are entitled to nominate and elect all of our directors and to determine the outcome of any actions requiring the approval of our stockholders, including adopting most amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approving or rejecting proposed mergers, significant new investments or divestments or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. 23 Table of Contents The interests of Travelport’s controlling holders may differ from those of our public shareholders in material respects. Travelport’s controlling holders and their affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies and maximizing the return on those investments. They currently have, and may from time to time in the future acquire, interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or our suppliers or customers or businesses on which we are substantially dependent, such as the Travelport GDSs. For example, in an effort to increase its revenues and improve its overall profitability, Travelport could seek to change the terms of its commercial relationships with its GDS customers. Because we are limited in our ability to pursue alternative GDS options or direct connections with suppliers during the term of our GDS agreement with Travelport, any such actions by Travelport could make us a less attractive distribution channel to our suppliers, who could attempt to terminate or renegotiate their agreements with us, and could place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other online travel companies. See “We are dependent on Travelport for our GDS services” below. In addition, Travelport’s customers, many of which are also major suppliers to us, have previously sought and may in the future seek to exert commercial leverage over us in an effort to obtain concessions from Travelport, which could negatively affect our access to travel offerings and adversely affect our business and results of operations. As long as Travelport’s controlling holders continue to indirectly own a significant amount of our outstanding voting stock, even if that amount is less than 50%, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control us. The interests of these holders may differ from our other shareholders’ interests in material respects. Actual or potential conflicts of interest may develop between our management and directors as well as the management and directors of Travelport. Jeff Clarke serves as Chairman of our Board of Directors, while retaining his role as President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Travelport. The fact that Mr. Clarke holds positions with both Travelport and us could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest for him when he faces decisions that may affect both Travelport and us. In addition, Mr. Paul C. Schorr IV, who is a senior managing director at The Blackstone Group, and Mr. William J.G. Griffith, who is a general partner of TCV, and who both currently serve on the board of directors of Travelport, serve on our board of directors. The fact that Mr. Schorr and Mr. Griffith hold positions with their respective entities, Travelport and us, could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when they face decisions that may affect two or more of these entities. In addition, Jill A. Greenthal, who is a senior advisor in the Private Equity Group of The Blackstone Group, currently serves on our board of directors. Affiliates of The Blackstone Group exercise control over Travelport’s ultimate parent company and therefore, the fact that Ms. Greenthal holds a position with The Blackstone Group could create, or appear to create, a potential conflict of interest when she faces decisions that affect both Travelport and us. Further, our certificate of incorporation provides that no officer or director of Travelport who is also an officer or director of ours may be liable to us or our stockholders for a breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity to Travelport instead of us or does not communicate information regarding a corporate opportunity to us because the officer or director has directed the corporate opportunity to Travelport. These provisions may have the effect of exacerbating the risk of conflicts of interest between Travelport and us because the provisions effectively shield an overlapping director/executive. Because of their former positions with Travelport or its subsidiaries, some of our executive officers retained interests in Travelport’s ultimate parent company, some of which may be significant relative to their total assets. Continued ownership by our officers of these interests creates, or may create, the appearance of conflicts of interest when these officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for Travelport than the decisions have for us. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between Travelport and us regarding the terms of commercial agreements between the parties or their affiliates. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we enter into any other commercial arrangements with Travelport in the future. 24 Table of Contents We are dependent on Travelport for our GDS services. To varying extents, suppliers use GDSs to connect their products and services with travel companies, who in turn make these products and services available to travelers for booking. Under our GDS service agreement with Travelport, we are required, subject to certain exceptions, to utilize Galileo and Worldspan, which are subsidiaries of Travelport, for a significant portion of our GDS services, and our contractual obligations to Travelport for GDS services may limit our ability to pursue alternative GDS options. As a result, if Travelport became unwilling or was unable to provide these services to us, we may not be able to obtain alternative providers on a commercially reasonable basis, in a timely manner or at all, and our business would be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, our GDS service agreement with Travelport limits our ability to modify the terms of our agreements with existing suppliers or to pursue direct connections with new or existing suppliers during the term of the agreement, which expires on December 31, 2014. These contractual obligations may reduce our flexibility to implement changes to our business in response to changing economic conditions, industry trends, or technological developments. As a result, the limitations imposed by the GDS service agreement could place us at a competitive disadvantage and negatively impact our business and results of operations, particularly in the current economic environment where our suppliers are under increased pressure to reduce their overall distribution costs. We have granted Travelport perpetual licenses to use certain of our intellectual property, which could facilitate Travelport’s ability to compete with us. We are party to a Master License Agreement with Travelport that governs each of our and Travelport’s rights to use certain of the other’s intellectual property. The master license agreement permits Travelport and its affiliates to use and, in some cases, to sublicense to third parties certain of our intellectual property, including: • our supplier link technology; • portions of ebookers’ booking, search and dynamic packaging technologies; • certain of our products and online booking tools for corporate travel; • portions of our white label dynamic packaging technology; and • our extranet supplier connectivity functionality currently being implemented as part of our new technology platform. Travelport and its affiliates may use these technologies as part of, or in support of, their own products or services, including in some cases to directly compete with us. The Master License Agreement permits Travelport to sublicense our intellectual property (other than our supplier link technology) to a party that is not an affiliate of Travelport, except that Travelport may not sublicense our intellectual property to a third party for a use that competes with our business, unless Travelport incorporates or uses our intellectual property with Travelport products or services to enhance or improve Travelport products or services (other than to provide our intellectual property to third parties on a stand-alone basis). Travelport and its affiliates are permitted to use our intellectual property to provide their own products and services to third parties that compete with us. With respect to our supplier link technology, Travelport has an unrestricted license. These Travelport rights could facilitate Travelport’s, its affiliates’ and third parties’ ability to compete with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our certificate of incorporation limits our ability to engage in many transactions without the consent of Travelport. Our certificate of incorporation provides Travelport with a greater degree of control and influence in the operation of our business and the management of our affairs than is typically available to a stockholder of a 25 Table of Contents publicly-traded company. Until Travelport ceases to beneficially own shares entitled to 33% or more of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our then outstanding common stock, the prior consent of Travelport is required for: • any consolidation or merger of us or any of our subsidiaries with any person, other than a subsidiary; • any sale, lease, exchange or other disposition or any acquisition or investment, other than certain permitted investments, by us, other than transactions between us and our subsidiaries, or any series of related dispositions or acquisitions, except for those for which we give Travelport at least 15 days prior written notice and which involve consideration not in excess of $15 million in fair market value, except (1) any disposition of cash equivalents or investment grade securities or obsolete or worn out equipment and (2) the lease, assignment or sublease of any real or personal property, in each case, in the ordinary course of business; • any change in our authorized capital stock or our creation of any class or series of capital stock; • the issuance or sale by us or one of our subsidiaries of any equity securities or equity derivative securities or the adoption of any equity incentive plan, except for (1) the issuance of equity securities by us or one of our subsidiaries to Travelport or to another restricted subsidiary of Travelport and (2) the issuance by us of equity securities under our equity incentive plans in an amount not to exceed $15 million per year in fair market value annually; • the amendment of various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • the declaration of dividends on any class of our capital stock; • the authorization of any series of preferred stock; • the creation, incurrence, assumption or guaranty by us or any of our subsidiaries of any indebtedness for borrowed money, except for (1) up to $675 million of indebtedness at any one time outstanding under our credit agreement and (2) up to $25 million of other indebtedness so long as we give Travelport at least 15 days prior written notice of the incurrence thereof; • the creation, existence or effectiveness of any consensual encumbrance or consensual restriction by us or any of our subsidiaries on (1) payment of dividends or other distributions, (2) payment of indebtedness, (3) the making of loans or advances and (4) the sale, lease or transfer of any properties or assets, in each case, to Travelport or any of its restricted subsidiaries; • any change in the number of directors on our board of directors, the establishment of any committee of the board, the determination of the members of the board or any committee of the board, and the filling of newly created memberships and vacancies on the board or any committee of the board; and • any transactions with affiliates of Travelport involving aggregate payments or consideration in excess of $10 million, except (1) transactions between or among Travelport or any of its restricted subsidiaries, including us; (2) the payment of reasonable and customary fees paid to, and indemnities provided for the benefit of, officers, directors, employees or consultants of Travelport, any of its direct or indirect parent companies or any of its restricted subsidiaries, including us; (3) any agreement as in effect on the date of the consummation of this offering; and (4) investments by The Blackstone Group and certain of its affiliates in our or our subsidiaries’ securities so long as (i) the investment is being offered generally to other investors on the same or more favorable terms and (ii) the investment constitutes less than 5% of the proposed or outstanding issue amount of such class of securities. These restrictions could prevent us from being able to pursue transactions or relationships that would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. These restrictions could also limit stockholder value by preventing a change of control that you might consider favorable. 26 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 