Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this report before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and an investor in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Generally General economic conditions may have an adverse impact on demand for our products. Demand for products requiring significant capital expenditures, such as our DSS units, CVD reactors and ASF furnaces, is affected by general economic conditions. A downturn in the global construction market reduces demand for solar panels in new residential and commercial buildings, which in turn reduces demand for our products that are used in the manufacture of PV wafers, cells and modules and polysilicon for the solar power industry. In addition, a downturn in the sapphire material market, and the sapphire-based LED market in particular (or if these markets do not experience any growth) would likely result in reduced demand for our sapphire material and our advanced sapphire furnaces. Uncertainties about economic conditions, negative financial news, tighter credit markets and declines in asset values have caused our customers to postpone making purchases of capital equipment and materials. Increasing budgetary pressures could reduce or eliminate government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications. A prolonged downturn in the global economy could have a material adverse effect on our business in a number of ways, including decreased demand for our products, which would result in lower sales and reduced backlog. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions and identify the risks that may affect our business. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Current or future credit and financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations in several ways. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia experienced extreme disruption in recent years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, tightened liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. There can be no assurance that there will not be further tightening in credit markets, deterioration in the financial markets and reduced confidence in economic conditions. These economic developments adversely affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. The tightening of credit in financial markets has resulted in reduced funding worldwide and a higher level of uncertainty for solar module and sapphire equipment manufacturers. As a result, some of our customers have been delayed in securing, or prevented from securing, funding adequate to honor their existing contracts with us or to enter into new contracts to purchase our products. We believe a reduction in the availability of funding for new manufacturing facilities and facility expansions in the solar and sapphire industries, or reduction demand for solar equipment panels or sapphire material, could cause a decrease in orders for certain of our products. We currently require most of our equipment customers to prepay a portion of the purchase price of their orders. We use these customer deposits to prepay our suppliers to reduce the need to borrow to cover our cash needs for working capital. This practice may not be sustainable if the recent market conditions continue. Some of our customers who have become financially distressed have failed to provide letters of credit or make payments in accordance with the terms of their existing contracts. If customers fail to post letters of credit or make payments, and we do not agree to revised terms, it could have a significant impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. During the fiscal years ended April 2, 2011 and April 3, 2010, some of our PV and polysilicon customers failed to make deposits when due under their contracts, and we terminated some of those contracts. In addition, certain of these customers requested extensions of delivery dates and other modifications. The resulting contract modifications included lower pricing and reductions in the number of units deliverable under the contracts, thereby reducing our order backlog. As a result of these terminations and other contract modifications, our PV and polysilicon order backlog was reduced by $10.7 million during the fiscal year ended April 2, 2011 and by $105.0 million during the fiscal year ended April 3, 2010. 20 Table of Contents As a result of PV and polysilicon customer delays or contract terminations, we reschedule or cancel, from time to time, purchase orders with our vendors to procure materials and reimburse the vendor for costs incurred to the date of termination plus predetermined profits. In addition, in the past, certain of the vendors from whom we purchased materials were unable to deliver their components because economic conditions had an adverse impact on their ability to operate their businesses and, in some cases, we were unable to recover advances paid to those vendors for components that were not delivered. For example, during the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009, we rescheduled and/or cancelled commitments to our vendors as a result of customer delays, contract modifications and terminations and we recorded losses of $11.3 million relating to expected forfeitures of vendor advances and reserves against advances on inventory purchases with vendors that had become financially distressed. In cases where we are not able to cancel or modify purchase orders impacted by customer delays or terminations, our purchase commitments may exceed our order backlog requirements and we may be unable to redeploy the undelivered equipment. In addition, we may be required to pay advances to vendors in the future without being able to recover that advance if the vendor is placed in bankruptcy, becomes insolvent or otherwise experiences financial distress. We are new to the sapphire material and equipment industry and have only delivered our first two ASF furnaces to customers (and have not operated these furnaces in the customers' facilities), but expect that the adverse impact of changes in the credit and financial markets on our sapphire business segment would be similar to that in our PV and polysilicon business segments. Delays in deliveries for products of all of our segments could cause us to have inventories in excess of our short-term needs and may delay our ability to recognize revenue on contracts in our order backlog. Contract breaches or cancellation of orders would prevent us from recognizing revenue on contracts in our order backlog and may require us to reschedule and/or cancel additional commitments to vendors in the future. Credit and financial market conditions may similarly affect our suppliers. We may lose advances we make to our suppliers in the event they become insolvent because our advances are not secured or backed by letters of credit. The inability of our suppliers to obtain credit to finance development or manufacture our products could result in delivery delays or prevent us from delivering our products to our customers. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the disruption in financial markets and adverse worldwide economic conditions and any resulting effects or changes, including those described above, may have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Amounts included in our order backlog may not result in actual revenue or translate into profits. Although our order backlog is based on signed purchase orders or other written contractual commitments, we cannot guarantee that our order backlog will result in actual revenue in the originally anticipated period or at all. In addition, the contracts included in our order backlog may not generate margins equal to our historical operating results. We began to track our order backlog on a consistent basis as a performance measure in 2007, and as a result, we do not have significant experience in determining the level of realization that we will actually achieve on our backlog. Our customers may experience project delays or defaults on the terms of their contracts with us as a result of external market factors and economic or other factors beyond our control. If a customer fails to perform its contractual obligations and we do not reasonably expect such customer to perform its obligations, we may terminate the contract. In addition, our backlog is at risk to varying degrees to the extent customers request that we extend the delivery schedules and make other modifications under their contracts in our order backlog. Any contract modifications that we negotiate could likely include an extension of delivery dates, and could result in lower pricing or in a reduction in the number of units deliverable under the contract, thereby reducing our order backlog. Our order backlog includes contracts with customers to whom we have sent notices of breach for failure to provide letters of credit 21 Table of Contents or to make payments when due. If we cannot come to an agreement with these customers, it could result in a further reduction of our order backlog. Other customers with contracts in our order backlog that are not currently under negotiation may approach us with requests for delays in the future, or may fail to make payments when due, which could further reduce our order backlog. As a result of terminations and other contract revisions, our order backlog was reduced by $10.7 million during the fiscal year ended April 2, 2011 and by $105.0 million during the fiscal year ended April 3, 2010. If our order backlog fails to result in revenue in a timely manner, or at all, we could experience a reduction in revenue, profitability and liquidity. We currently depend on a small number of customers in any given fiscal year for a substantial part of our sales and revenue. In each fiscal year, we depend on a small number of customers for a substantial part of our sales and revenue. For example, in the fiscal year ended April 2, 2011, one customer accounted for 19% of our revenue, in the fiscal year ended April 3, 2010, one customer accounted for 34% of our revenue and in the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009, four customers accounted for 62% of our revenue. In addition, as of April 2, 2011, we had a $1.2 billion order backlog of which $346.6 million was attributable to one customer. As a result, the default in payment by any of our major customers, the loss of existing orders or lack of new orders in the future, or a change in the product acceptance schedule by such customers could significantly reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. We anticipate that our dependence on a limited number of customers in any given fiscal year will continue for the foreseeable future. There is a risk that existing customers will elect not to do business with us in the future or will experience financial difficulties. Furthermore, many of our customers are at an early stage and many are dependent on the equity capital markets to finance their purchase of our products. As a result, these customers could experience financial difficulties and become unable to fulfill their contracts with us. There is also a risk that our customers will attempt to impose new or additional requirements on us that reduce the profitability of sales to those customers for us. If we do not develop relationships with new customers, we may not be able to increase, or even maintain, our revenue, and our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected. Our success depends on the sale of a limited number of products. A significant portion of our operating profits has historically been derived from sales of DSS units, CVD reactors and STC converters, which sales accounted for 89% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended April 2, 2011, 91% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended April 3, 2010 and 89% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009. There can be no assurance that DSS units and CVD reactors sales will increase beyond, or be maintained at, past levels or that any sales of sapphire materials or equipment will offset any decrease in sales of DSS units or CVD reactors. In fact, sales of our STC converters are substantially lower than in prior periods due to changes in technology. Factors affecting the level of future sales of our products include factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, demand for solar products and sapphire material (including sapphire-based LED material) and competing product offerings by other equipment manufacturers. Even following the acquisition of Crystal Systems, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully diversify our product offering and thereby increase our revenue and/or maintain our profits in the event of a decline in DSS units and CVD reactors sales. If sales of our PV, polysilicon or sapphire products decline for any reason, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of third party suppliers. We use component parts supplied by a small number of third party suppliers in our polysilicon, PV and sapphire equipment products and ancillary equipment, and certain of these components are critical 22 Table of Contents to the manufacture and operation of certain of our products. For example, we use specialist manufacturers to provide vessels and power supplies which are essential to the manufacture and operation of our polysilicon products. In addition, certain of our products consist entirely of parts and components supplied by third party suppliers, and in these instances filling orders depends entirely upon parties over which we exercise little or no control, and if these contractors were unable to supply, or refused to supply, the parts and components, we would be unable to complete orders which would have a negative impact on our reputation and our business. Further, our agreements with suppliers are typically short term in nature, which leaves us vulnerable to the risk that our suppliers may change the terms on which they have previously supplied products to us or cease supplying products to us at any time and for any reason. In addition, our sapphire business depends on a small number of suppliers for certain raw materials, components, services and equipment used in manufacturing our products and our ASF furnaces. In particular, (i) the supply of meltstock we use to grow sapphire materials is limited and there may be an insufficient amount to grow our sapphire materials business as currently planned or available for the purchasers of our crystal growth furnaces and (ii) the supply of crucibles used in our ASF furnace, which require specialized manufacturing processes, may not be adequate to support the expected increase in the use of the ASF furnace by us or by customers of our ASF furnaces. We generally purchase these items with purchase orders, and we have no guaranteed supply arrangements with such suppliers. There is no guarantee that we will maintain relationships with our existing suppliers or develop new relationships with other suppliers. In the ordinary course of business, we are also exposed to market risk from fluctuations in the price of raw materials necessary in the manufacture of our products, such as graphite, steel and molybdenum. In addition, certain of our suppliers are small companies that may cease operations for any reason, including financial viability reasons, and/or may be unable to meet any increases in our demand for component parts and equipment. We are also dependent on our suppliers to maintain the quality of the components and equipment we use and the increased demands placed on these suppliers as we expect to continue to grow may result in quality control problems. We may be unable to identify replacement or additional suppliers or qualify their products in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Component parts supplied by new suppliers may also be less suited to our products than the component parts supplied by our existing suppliers. Certain of the component parts used in our products have been developed, made or adapted specifically for us. Such parts are not generally available from other vendors and could be difficult or impossible to obtain elsewhere. As a result, there may be a significant time lag in securing an alternative source of supply. In addition, the inability of our suppliers to support our demand could be indicative of a marketwide scarcity of the materials, which could result in even longer interruptions in our ability to supply our products. Our failure to obtain sufficient component parts and/or third party equipment that meet our requirements in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms could interrupt or impair our ability to assemble our products, and may adversely impact our plans to expand and grow our business, as well as result in a loss of market share. Further, such failure may prevent us from delivering our products as required by the terms of our contracts with our customers, and may harm our reputation and result in breach of contract and other claims being brought against us by our customers. Any changes to our current supply arrangements, whether to the terms of supply from existing suppliers or a change in our suppliers, may also increase our costs in a material amount. As a result of any of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents We face competition in each of our business segments, and if our competitors are able to manufacture products that employ newer technologies or are otherwise more widely used than we currently utilize, and if we are unable to modify our products to adapt to such future changes, we may be unable to attract or retain customers. The solar energy industry and the sapphire industry are both highly competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to increase their market share and new entrants strive to capture market share in each of these industries. In addition, the solar energy industry also has to compete with the larger conventional electric power industry. Many of our competitors have, and future competitors may also have, substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. These resources may provide our competitors with an advantage because they can realize economies of scale, synergies and purchase certain raw materials and key components at lower prices. Current and potential competitors of ours may also have greater brand name recognition, more established distribution networks and larger customer bases, and may be able to devote more resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products or to respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions. In addition, given the ability of other parties to access equipment technology in each of our segments, we also face low-cost competitors who offer products at very competitive prices. We may not be able to maintain our current share of the market in our respective businesses as competitive intensity increases and particularly as our customers are targeted by local competitors in China and other countries. Customers may place orders to supply equipment for new facilities or future expansions with our competitors, and we believe the likelihood that our customers and others will go to competitors has increased over time. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. In relation to our polysilicon business, we are not the only provider of polysilicon production equipment to the market and the technology underlying our CVD reactor product is not the only known technology for producing polysilicon. Our CVD reactor is based on a method known as the Siemens process, whereby silicon depositions from silane or TCS gas are grown on heated rods inside a cooled bell jar. An alternative polysilicon production method is the fluidized bed reactor, or FBR, process, in which polysilicon is grown from hot polysilicon granules suspended in an upward flow of silane or TCS gas inside a specially designed chamber. A large scale FBR process has certain advantages over the Siemens process, including allowing for the continuous production and extraction of polysilicon, consuming less energy and being less labor intensive. There can be no assurance that the FBR process or other polysilicon growth technologies will not supersede the Siemens process as the most commonly used method of polysilicon production. If other technologies for producing polysilicon become more widely used or more widely available, demand for our CVD reactor product, may be adversely affected. Existing direct competitors of our polysilicon business include various companies that we believe deliver CVD reactors based upon what we believe is a Siemens process reactor design. There can be no assurance that our polysilicon business will compete successfully with these companies. Although we believe our CVD reactor to be distinct from the competing products offered by our competitors, there can be no assurance that our CVD reactor will compete successfully with their products. If we are unable to compete successfully with these other products, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. In addition, companies that produce polysilicon for their own purposes currently compete indirectly with our polysilicon business, as any increase in the supply of polysilicon may have an adverse effect of the demand for our CVD reactor. The PV and sapphire industries are rapidly evolving and are highly competitive. Technological advances may result in lower manufacturing costs for these products and/or such product manufacturing equipment, and may render existing products and/or product manufacturing equipment of our PV and sapphire businesses obsolete. We will therefore need to keep pace with technological advances in these industries, including committing resources to ongoing research and development, acquiring new 24 Table of Contents technologies, continually improving our existing products and continually expanding and/or updating our product offering, in order to compete effectively in the future. Our failure to further refine our technologies and/or develop and introduce new solar power and sapphire products could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect demand for our products, and our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Additionally, there are certain competitive factors that are particular to the sapphire material market including sapphire-based LED, and the sapphire equipment market. Our ability to expand into new applications in the sapphire material market and sapphire equipment market depends on continued advancement in the design and manufacture of sapphire and LEDs (including sapphire and non-sapphire-based LEDs) by others. This industry has been characterized by a rapid rate of development of new technologies and manufacturing processes, rapid changes in customer requirements, frequent product introductions and ongoing demands for greater functionality. The future success of our sapphire business will depend on our ability to develop new products for use in sapphire and sapphire-based LED applications and to adjust our product specifications in response to these developments in a timely manner. If our development efforts for sapphire material and equipment are not successful or are delayed, or if our newly developed products do not achieve market acceptance, we may be unable to attract or retain customers. In addition, although sapphire is currently the preferred substrate material for certain LED applications, we cannot be assured that the LED market demand for sapphire will continue. Research is also ongoing for the use of silicon substrates in LED applications. Moreover, if effective new sources of light other than sapphire-based LED devices are developed, our sapphire business' current products and technologies could become less competitive or obsolete. If sapphire is displaced as the substrate of choice for certain LED applications, or if sapphire-based LED is no longer a preferred technology among our customers, the financial condition and results of operations of our sapphire business could be adversely affected. We may face product liability claims and/or claims in relation to third party equipment. It is possible that our products could result in property damage and/or personal injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper use or installation or other causes. We cannot predict whether or not product liability claims will be brought against us or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on our business, which may include loss of existing customers, failure to attract new customers and a decline in sales. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages being payable by us, and we may not have adequate resources to satisfy any judgment against us. Furthermore, it may be difficult to determine whether any damage or injury was due to product malfunction, operator error, failure of the product to be operated and maintained in accordance with our specifications or the failure of the facility in which our products are used to comply with the facility specifications provided to our customers or other factors beyond our control. For example, one of our significant customers experienced chamber leakage involving a number of DSS units in its facilities which we believe was the result of their facility failing to conform to specifications. We nonetheless agreed to replace certain chambers at our cost. Other customers may experience similar issues in the future as a result of product defects, facilities not complying with specifications or other reasons. To date, we have not received any product liability or other claims with respect to these or any other accidents. The bringing of product liability claims against us, whether ultimately successful or not, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. We have provided third party equipment in connection with our product sales. There can be no guarantee that such third party equipment will function in accordance with our intended or specified purpose or that the customer's personnel, in particular those who are inexperienced in the use of the specialized equipment sold by us, will be able to correctly install and operate it, which may result in the return of products and/or claims by the customer against us. In the event of a claim against us, there is no guarantee that we will be able to recover all or any of our loss from the third party equipment 25 Table of Contents provider. Any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Our future success depends on our management team and on our ability to attract and retain key employees and to integrate new employees into our management team successfully. We are dependent on the services of our management team. Although certain of these individuals are subject to service agreements with us, any and all of them may choose to terminate their employment with us on thirty or fewer days' notice. The loss of any member of the management team could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. There is a risk that we will not be able to retain or replace these or other key employees. Integrating new employees into our management team could prove disruptive to our daily operations, require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention and ultimately prove unsuccessful. This may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. We may be unable to attract, train and retain technical personnel. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to continue to develop and improve our technology and to attract, train and retain experienced and knowledgeable technical personnel. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the polysilicon or PV products industries and the sapphire industry, is vital to our success. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and qualified personnel are currently, and for the foreseeable future are likely to remain, a limited resource. Locating candidates with the appropriate qualifications can be costly, time-consuming and difficult. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract new, or retain existing, technical personnel. We may need to provide higher compensation or increased training to our personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, or are required to change the terms on which our personnel are employed, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property adequately and may face litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete effectively against our competitors in the PV, polysilicon and sapphire markets will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our current and future proprietary technologies, product designs, product uses and manufacturing processes under relevant intellectual property laws including, but not limited, to laws relating to patents and trade secrets. We own various patents and patent applications in the United States and other countries relating to our products, product uses and manufacturing processes. To the extent that we rely on patent protection, our patents may provide only limited protection for our technology and may not be sufficient to provide competitive advantages to us. For example, competitors could develop similar or more advantageous technologies or design around our patents or otherwise employ alternative products, equipment or processes that may successfully compete with our products and technology. In addition, patents are of limited duration. Any issued patents may also be challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable. If our patents are challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable, other companies will be better able to develop products that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. Further, we may not have, or be able to obtain, effective patent protection in all of our key sales territories. Our patent applications may not result in issued patents and, even if they do result in issued patents, the patents may not include rights of the scope that we seek. The patent position of technology-oriented companies, including ours, is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. Accordingly, we do not know what degree of protection we will obtain from our proprietary rights or 26 Table of Contents the breadth of the claims allowed in patents issued to us or to others. Further, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important to our business. Third parties may infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate our proprietary technologies, product designs, manufacturing processes and our intellectual property rights therein, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. For example, we have filed a lawsuit in the Hillsborough County Superior Court (Southern District) in New Hampshire against Advanced RenewableEnergy Company, LLC ("ARC"), Kedar Gupta, its Chief Executive Officer and Chandra Khattak, an ARC employee, for the misappropriation of trade secrets relating to sapphire crystallization processes and equipment. Because the laws and enforcement mechanisms of various countries that we seek protection in may not allow us to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, the strength of our intellectual property rights will vary from country to country. Litigation to prevent, or seek compensation for such infringement, misappropriation or other violation, such as that described above may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business without any guarantee of success. We also rely upon proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other know-how or trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we generally enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements could be breached and are limited, in some instances, in duration and may not provide meaningful protection for the trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise that we hold. We have had in the past and may continue to have certain of our employees terminate their employment with us to work for one of our customers or competitors. Adequate or timely remedies may not be available in the event of misappropriation, unauthorized use or disclosure of our manufacturing expertise, technological innovations and trade secrets. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our manufacturing expertise, technological innovations and trade secrets through independent development or other legal means and, in such cases, we may not be able to assert any trade secret rights against such a party. We may face claims in relation to the infringement or misappropriation of third-party intellectual property rights. Notwithstanding our intellectual property rights, we may be subject to claims that our products, processes or product uses infringe the intellectual property rights of others. These claims, even if meritless, could be expensive and time consuming to defend. In addition, if we are not successful in our defense of such claims, we could be subject to injunctions and/or damages, or be required to enter into licensing arrangements requiring royalty payments and/or use restrictions. In some instances, licensing arrangements may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on acceptable terms. We face potential claims by third parties of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of such third parties' intellectual property rights. From time to time we have received and may in the future receive notices or inquiries from other companies regarding our services or products suggesting that we may be infringing their patents or misappropriating their intellectual property rights. Such notices or inquiries may, among other things, threaten litigation against us. Furthermore, the issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have the right to practice the patented invention. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing our own patented product and practicing our own patented technology. In addition, third parties could allege that our products and processes make use of their unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise and/or trade secrets, whether in breach of confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements or otherwise. If an action for infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of third party rights were successfully brought against us, we may be required to cease our activities on an interim or permanent basis and could be ordered to pay compensation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of 27 Table of Contents operations, business and/or prospects. Additionally, if we are found to have willfully infringed certain intellectual property rights of another party, we may be subject to treble damages and/or be required to pay the other party's attorney's fees. Alternatively, we may need to seek to obtain a license of the third party's intellectual property rights or trade secrets, which may not be available, whether on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, any litigation required to defend such claims brought by third parties may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business, without any guarantee of success. Moreover, we may also not have adequate resources to devote to our business in the event of a successful claim against us. From time to time, we hire personnel who may have obligations to preserve the secrecy of confidential information and/or trade secrets of their former employers. Some former employers monitor compliance with these obligations. For example, a former employer of three of our current employees, one of whom is one of our executive officers, contacted us seeking assurance that its ex-employees were honoring their confidentiality obligations to the former employer. We also received a similar inquiry from the former employers of two other employees. In both instances, we believe that we have provided such former employers with such assurance. While we have policies and procedures in place to guard against the risk of breach by our employees of confidentiality obligations to their former employers, there can be no assurance that a former employer of one or more of our employees will not allege a breach and seek compensation for alleged damages. If such a former employer were to successfully bring such a claim, our know-how and/or skills base could be restricted and our ability to produce certain products and/or to continue certain business activities could be affected, to the detriment of our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. The international nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in foreign countries. A substantial majority of our marketing and distribution takes place outside the United States, primarily in China, and substantially all of our sales are to customers outside the United States. We also have contracts with customers in Europe and expect to recognize revenue from sales to customers in Asia and Europe in the future. In addition, we have transitioned our global operations center to Hong Kong, further increasing our exposure to the risks of operating in Asia. As a result, we are subject to the legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions other than the United States. Risks inherent to maintaining international operations, include, but are not limited to, the following: •trade disputes between countries, particularly China, in which our customers sell end-products, including their sales of solar wafers, cells and modules, and sapphire materials produced with our furnaces or reactors, which could result in government or trade organization actions that have the effect of increasing the price for our and our customers' products which would have a corresponding decrease in the demand for our products; •withholding taxes or other taxes on our foreign income, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls imposed by or in other countries; •the inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights in other jurisdictions, at a reasonable cost or at all; •difficulty with staffing and managing widespread and growing operations; •trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make our product offering less competitive in some countries; and •establishing ourselves and becoming tax resident in foreign jurisdictions. 28 Table of Contents Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed under differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop, implement and maintain policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. As a result of any of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. We are a global corporation with significant operations in Asia, and challenges by various tax authorities to our global operations could, if successful, increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our earnings. We are a Delaware corporation that operates through various affiliates and subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world, primarily in Asia. In October 2010, we established our global operations center in Hong Kong. Our income taxes are based upon the applicable tax laws, treaties, and regulations in the many countries in which we operate and earn income as well as upon our operating structures in these countries. While we carefully analyze and account for the tax risks and uncertainties under the applicable rules, multiple tax authorities could contend that a greater portion of the income of the Company and its affiliates should be subject to income or other tax in their respective jurisdictions. If successful, these challenges could result in an increase to our effective tax rate. We continue to monitor the impact of various international tax proposals and interpretations of the tax laws and treaties in the countries where we operate, including those in the United States, China, Hong Kong, and other countries. If enacted, certain changes in tax laws, treaties, regulations, or their interpretation could result in a higher tax rate on our earnings, which could result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flow from operations. We are subject to the legal systems of the countries in which we offer and sell our products. We offer and sell our products internationally, including in some emerging markets. As a result, we are and/or may become subject to the laws, regulations and legal systems of the various jurisdictions in which we carry on business and/or in which our customers or suppliers are located. Among the laws and regulations applicable to our business are health and safety and environmental regulations, which vary from country to country and from time to time. We must therefore design our products and ensure their manufacture so as to comply with all applicable standards. Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, including any change in existing legal and regulatory requirements, may cause us to incur costs and may be difficult, impractical or impossible. Accordingly, foreign laws and regulations which are applicable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. As a result of the procedural requirements or laws of the foreign jurisdictions in which we carry on business and/or in which our customers or suppliers are located, we may experience difficulty in enforcing supplier or customer agreements or certain provisions thereof, including, for example, the limitations on the product warranty we typically provide to our customers. In some jurisdictions, enforcement of our rights may not be commercially practical in light of the duration, cost and unpredictability of such jurisdiction's legal system. Any inability by us to enforce, or any difficulties experienced by us in enforcing, our contractual rights in foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. We may be subject to export restrictions and laws affecting trade and investments, and the future sale of our products, including our sapphire materials and furnaces, may be limited or prohibited in the future by a government agency or authority. As a global company headquartered in the United States, our products and services are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that may limit and/or restrict the export of some of our products, services 29 Table of Contents and related product information, as well as laws of those foreign jurisdictions in which we sell or re-export our products. Compliance with these laws and regulations could significantly limit our operations and our sales in the future and failure to comply could result in a range of penalties, including restrictions on all of our exports for a specified time period, or forever, and severe monetary penalties. In certain circumstances, these restrictions may affect our ability to interact with our foreign subsidiaries and otherwise limit our trade and investments with third parties operating outside the U.S. In addition, certain customers of our sapphire materials business operate in the defense sector or are subcontractors of companies in the defense industry, and our products are incorporated in, among other things, missiles, military aircraft and aerospace systems. In addition, Crystal Systems has received funding from the U.S. government in connection with certain research work for certain U.S. government agencies. The work performed pursuant to certain of these contracts is not commercially available, but we may make it available commercially in the future. The State Department, the Commerce Department or other government agency may, however, determine that our sapphire material or other products, including our ASF furnaces, PV furnaces and/or polysilicon reactors, are important to the military potential of the U.S. If so, we may be subject to more stringent export licensing requirements or prohibited from selling certain of our sapphire materials for certain applications, ASF furnaces, PV furnaces and/or polysilicon reactors to any customer outside the U.S. The government has, and will likely continue to, vigorously enforce these laws in light of continuing security concerns. If the export or sale of any of our current or future products outside the U.S. are limited or restricted by the U.S. government or any foreign government, our operations and results of operations would be negatively impacted. We face particular market, commercial, jurisdictional and legal risks associated with our business in China. We have had significant sales in China, accounting for 71% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended April 2, 2011, 63% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended April 3, 2010, and 62% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009. Further, we have significant facilities in China. Accordingly, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected by economic, political and legal conditions or developments in China. Examples of economic and political developments that could adversely affect us include government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In addition, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China remain government owned. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditures by solar and sapphire product manufacturers, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Additionally, China has historically adopted laws, regulations and policies which impose additional restrictions on the ability of foreign companies to conduct business in China or otherwise place them at a competitive disadvantage in relation to domestic companies. Any adverse change in economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on our overall economic growth and therefore have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. We also face risks associated with Chinese laws and the Chinese legal system. China's legal system is rapidly evolving and, as a result, the interpretation and enforcement of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and legal proceedings in China often involve uncertainties. The legal protections available to us may therefore be uncertain and may be limited. Enforcement of Chinese intellectual property related laws has historically been weak, primarily because of ambiguities in Chinese laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, the intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections available to us in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. In addition, any litigation brought by or against us in China may be protracted and 30 Table of Contents may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention and the anticipated outcome would be highly uncertain. As a result of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected. We are in the process of expanding our presence in China, including in the areas of customer service, certain manufacturing services, sales and research and development. As we expand our presence in China, we are increasingly exposed to the economic, political and legal conditions and developments in China, which could further exacerbate these risks. We have entered into and may enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions that may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, expose us to litigation or unknown liabilities, dilute stockholder value and divert management attention. If acquisition opportunities arise in the future, we may seek to enter into business combinations or purchases. For example, in July 2010, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding stock of Crystal Systems. Acquisitions and combinations, including the acquisition of Crystal Systems, are accompanied by a number of risks, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the potential distraction of management, expenses related to the acquisition and potential unknown liabilities and claims associated with acquired businesses. We may be subject to (i) liability for activities of the acquired company prior to the acquisition, including violations of laws, commercial disputes, environmental and tax and other known and unknown liabilities and (ii) litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims brought by terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties. In addition, there may, in particular, be risks and uncertainties in connection with the intellectual property rights of an acquired company, including (i) the nature, extent and value of the intellectual property assets of an acquired company, (ii) the rights that an acquired company has to utilize intellectual property that it claims to have developed or to have licensed, (iii) the validity of intellectual property transfers to or from third parties, (iv) the enforceability of registered and other intellectual property rights, and (v) actions by third parties against the acquired company for intellectual property infringement and the extent of the potential loss relating thereto. Third parties may also be more likely to assert claims against the acquired company, including claims for breach of intellectual property rights, once the company has been acquired by us. Any inability to integrate completed acquisitions or combinations in an efficient and timely manner or the inability to properly assess and utilize the intellectual property portfolio without infringing the rights of a third party could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to recognize any expected synergies or benefits in connection with a future acquisition or combination or we may be unable to effectively implement the business plan for the acquired company, which would prevent us from achieving our financial and business goals for the business. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions or combinations that we may pursue in the future, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources without a successful result. In addition, future acquisitions could require use of substantial portions of our available cash or result in the incurrence of debt or dilutive issuances of securities. Acquisitions and combinations also frequently require the acquiring company to recognize significant amounts of intangible assets, such as goodwill, patents and trademarks and customer lists, in an acquisition, which amounts may be subject to a future impairment if we are unable to successfully implement the operating strategy for the acquired company. 31 Table of Contents Our ability to supply a sufficient number of products to meet demand could be severely hampered by natural disasters or other catastrophes. Currently, a portion of our operations are located in Asia and we have recently increased our presence in Asia by opening our global operations center in Hong Kong. Additionally, a significant portion of our revenue is generated from customers that install our equipment in Asia. These areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods. A significant catastrophic event such as war, acts of terrorism or global threats, including, but not limited to, the outbreak of epidemic disease, could disrupt our operations and impair distribution of our products, damage inventory, interrupt critical functions, cause our suppliers to be unable to meet our demand for parts and equipment, reduce demand for our products, prevent our customers from honoring their contractual obligations to us or otherwise affect our business negatively. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or our inability to fill orders, causes cancellations of customer orders, or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may potentially be subject to concentration of credit risk related to our cash equivalents and short-term investments. We may potentially be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the financial counterparties to our cash equivalent investments and short term investments. This risk may be heightened as a result of the financial crisis and volatility in the markets. We manage the concentration risk by making investments that comply with our investment policy. Currently, our cash equivalents are invested in money market mutual funds. Although we do not currently believe the principal amounts of these investments are subject to any material risk of loss, the recent volatility in the financial markets is likely to significantly impact the investment income we receive from these investments. In general, increases of credit risk related to our cash equivalents and short-term investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Our credit facilities contain covenants that impose significant restrictions on us. In 2010, we entered into a credit agreement, or Credit Agreement, which consists of a term loan facility and a revolving credit facility with Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the lenders from time to time party thereto. The credit agreement contains covenants and conditions that restrict our ability to incur certain additional debt, pay dividends and make distributions, enter into specified transactions with affiliates, acquire businesses, among others, and resulted in liens being placed on certain of our properties and assets. The terms of the Credit Agreement also impose several financial covenants on us and our subsidiaries, including, but not limited to (i) maximum capital expenditures of $50 million during the two quarters ended April 2, 2011 and $40 million in any fiscal year thereafter, (ii) minimum ratio of consolidated adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement) to consolidated fixed charges (as defined in the Credit Agreement) ranging from 1.0 to 1 to 2.0 to 1 at various times during the term of the Credit Agreement and (iii) maximum leverage ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of 0.6 to 1.0 throughout the term of the Credit Agreement. In addition, we have agreed to maintain all of our cash and permitted investments (as defined in the Credit Agreement) (which we collectively refer to as the Pledged Cash) in deposit or securities accounts in the United States that are subject to a lien in favor of the collateral agent for the benefit of the secured parties and perfected by control, provided that we shall be required to maintain Pledged Cash greater than 110% of the aggregate amount of the outstanding principal amount of the Term Facility and the revolving credit exposure. We are also obligated to make certain prepayments of the Term Facility and the revolving credit facility. 32 Table of Contents The foregoing restrictions may limit our ability to operate our business and our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness under the Credit Agreement. If such acceleration occurs, we would be required to repay our indebtedness, and we may not have the ability to do so or the ability to refinance our indebtedness, which would prevent us from investing in our business in an effort to grow our operations. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be available on acceptable or reasonable terms. An acceleration of our indebtedness could impair our ability to operate as a going concern. We may face significant warranty claims. Our DSS products and ASF furnace are generally sold with a standard warranty for technical defects for a period equal to the shorter of: (i) twelve months from the date of acceptance by the customer; or (ii) fifteen months from the date of shipment. We provide longer warranty coverage in our polysilicon business, typically covering a period not exceeding twenty-four months from delivery. The warranty is typically provided on a repair or replace basis, and is not limited to products or parts manufactured by us. Our sapphire products are sold with a standard warranty for a period not greater than thirty days, but the warranty period may be longer in certain cases. As a result, we bear the risk of warranty claims on all products we supply, including equipment and component parts manufactured by third parties. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in claiming under any warranty or indemnity provided to us by our suppliers in the event of a successful warranty claim against us by a customer or that any recovery from such supplier would be adequate. There is a risk that warranty claims made against us will exceed our warranty reserve and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Exchange rate fluctuations may make our products less attractive to non-U.S. customers and otherwise have a negative impact on our operating results. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and almost all of our contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, greater than 99% of our revenue was generated from sales to customers located outside the United States in each of the fiscal years ended April 2, 2011, April 3, 2010 and March 28, 2009, and we expect that a large percentage of our future revenue will continue to be derived from sales to customers located outside the United States. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could make our products less attractive to non-U.S. customers and therefore decrease our sales and gross margins. In addition, we incur costs in the local currency of the countries outside the United States in which we operate and as a result are subject to currency translation risk. Exchange rates between a number of foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly over the last few years and future exchange rate fluctuations may occur. Our largest foreign currency exposure is the euro. In an attempt to mitigate foreign currency fluctuations, we have entered into, from time to time, forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge portions of equipment purchases from vendors located primarily in Europe. Our hedging activities may not be successful in reducing our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and in fiscal 2010 we were required to take a charge of $2.1 million as a result of certain forward foreign exchange contracts no longer qualifying as cash flow hedges, which may occur again if we delay, cancel or otherwise modify the terms of the equipment purchases that affect the forecasted cash flow transaction being hedged. Future exchange rate fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. An increase in interest rates or the reduced availability of financing could reduce the demand for our products. Our customers may use debt or equity financing to purchase our products and otherwise run their businesses. As a result, an increase in interest rates or the reduced availability of financing in any of the markets in which our customers operate, including Europe, Asia and the United States, could make 33 Table of Contents it difficult for existing and potential customers to secure the financing necessary to purchase our products. In addition, end users of PV products may depend on debt financing to fund the capital expenditures required to purchase and install PV applications. As a result, an increase in interest rates or the reduced availability of financing could make it difficult for end-users to secure necessary financing on favorable terms, or at all, and therefore could reduce demand for PV products. Any such decrease in demand for PV products could, in turn, result in decreased demand for our products, which are used in the manufacture of PV products, as well as of polysilicon and sapphire equipment. Thus, an increase in interest rates or the reduced availability of financing could lower demand for all of our products, reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. We are subject to securities class action lawsuits that could adversely affect our business. This litigation, and potential similar or related litigation, could result in substantial damages and may divert management's time and attention from our business. Beginning on August 1, 2008, seven putative securities class action lawsuits were commenced in the United States District Court for the District of New Hampshire, or the Court, against us, certain of our officers and directors, certain underwriters of our July 24, 2008 initial public offering and others, including certain of our investors, together called the "federal class actions". On October 3, 2008, the Court entered an order consolidating the federal class actions into a single action captioned Braun et al. v. GT Solar International, Inc., et al. The Court selected the lead plaintiff and lead plaintiff's counsel in the consolidated matter on October 29, 2008. The lead plaintiff filed an amended consolidated complaint on December 22, 2008. The lead plaintiff asserts claims under various sections of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The amended consolidated complaint alleges, among other things, that the defendants made false and materially misleading statements and failed to disclose material information in certain SEC filings, including the registration statement and Prospectus for our July 24, 2008 initial public offering, and other public statements, regarding our business relationship with LDK Solar, Ltd., one of our customers, JYT Corporation, one of our competitors, and certain of our products, including the DSS furnaces. Among other relief, the amended consolidated complaint seeks class certification, unspecified compensatory damages, rescission, interest, attorneys' fees, costs and such other relief as the Court should deem just and proper. The defendants moved to dismiss the amended consolidated complaint on February 5, 2009. On September 22, 2009, the Court denied the defendant's motion. Following the Court's denial of the motion, the parties submitted a proposed joint case management order, which the Court approved on November 6, 2009. The case management order provides for discovery to close on May 25, 2011. In addition, on September 18, 2008 a putative securities class action was filed in New Hampshire state court in the Superior Court for Hillsborough County, Southern District, or the "State Court", under the caption Hamel v. GT Solar International, Inc., et al., against us, certain of our officers and directors and certain underwriters of our July 24, 2008 initial public offering, called the "state class action". The state class action plaintiffs assert claims under various sections of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The state class action complaint alleges, among other things, that the defendants made false and materially misleading statements and failed to disclose material information in certain SEC filings, including the registration statement for our July 24, 2008 initial public offering, and other public statements, regarding the status of our business relationship with LDK Solar. Among other relief, the state class action complaint seeks class certification, unspecified compensatory damages, rescission, interest, attorneys' fees, costs and such other relief as the State Court should deem just and proper. We removed the state class action to the United States District Court for the District of New Hampshire on October 22, 2008. The state class action was consolidated with the federal class action on November 25, 2008. On February 2, 2009, the federal Court granted the plaintiff's motion to 34 Table of Contents remand the state class action to New Hampshire State Court. On May 4, 2009, the parties agreed to a stay of the state class action, pending resolution of the motion to dismiss in the consolidated federal case. At a case structuring conference on June 3, 2009, the State Court endorsed the proposed joint case management order filed by the parties which requires coordination of any discovery to be taken in the state class action with that taken in the federal class action. With the denial of the motion to dismiss the federal action, the parties submitted a proposed joint case management order to the State Court on November 6, 2009. On January 12, 2010, the State Court granted a joint motion of the parties to transfer the state class action to the State Court's Business and Commercial Dispute Docket. In March 2011, the Company reached an agreement in principle to settle these two putative securities class-action lawsuits related to the Company's initial public offering. The terms of the proposed settlement, which includes no admission of liability or wrongdoing by the Company or by any other defendants, provides for a full and complete release of all claims that were or could have been brought against all defendants in both the federal and state securities actions. The Company will pay $10.5 million into a settlement fund. Of this amount, the Company will contribute $1.0 million and the Company's liability insurers will contribute the remaining $9.5 million. The Company's contribution represents its contractual indemnification obligation to its underwriters. On May 4, 2011, the parties to the federal class action filed a stipulation of settlement and a motion for preliminary approval of the settlement with the federal court. On May 5, 2011, the parties to the state class action filed a stipulation of settlement and motion for dismissal with prejudice in the state action. The stipulations in both the federal and the state courts provide that the putative class in the state class action will participate in the settlement as members of the settlement class in the federal class action. The stipulation filed in the state court provides that the state class action will be dismissed with prejudice upon entry of an order of final approval by the federal court. On May 13, 2011, the Federal Court gave preliminary approval of the settlement, and ordered that notice be provided to the proposed settlement class (as defined in the stipulation). The Federal Court also scheduled a hearing for September 27, 2011, to determine whether the settlement will receive final approval. While we believe that the proposed settlement is fair and adequate to all members of the proposed settlement class, there can be no assurance that the federal court will grant final approval of the settlement. A derivative suit, captioned Fan v. GT Solar Int'l, Inc., et al., was filed in New Hampshire State Court on January 14, 2009, called the "derivative action". The derivative complaint is asserted nominally on our behalf against certain of our directors and officers and alleges various claims for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, abuse of control and gross mismanagement and is premised on the same purported misconduct alleged in the federal action. On April 10, 2009, the State Court granted our motion to stay the derivative action, pending resolution of the motion to dismiss in the federal action. In accordance with the terms of the stay the parties have conferred regarding a case management schedule for the derivative action. The derivative action is not included in the settlement of the federal and state class actions. We intend to defend these actions vigorously. We are currently unable to estimate a range of payments if any, we may be required to pay, or may agree to pay, with respect to the derivative action. We believe, however, that the resolution of these suits will not result in a material adverse effect to our consolidated financial statements. However, due to the inherent uncertainties that accompany litigation of this nature, there can be no assurance that we will be successful, and an adverse resolution of any of the lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. 35 Table of Contents New interpretations of existing accounting standards or the application of new standards could affect our revenue recognition and other accounting policies, which could have an adverse effect on the way we report our operating results. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretations by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various other organizations formed to promulgate and interpret accounting principles. A change in these accounting principles or their interpretations could affect the reporting of transactions that were completed before the announcement of a change in principles or interpretations. In October 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that provides amendments to the revenue recognition criteria for separating consideration in multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements This guidance is effective prospectively for revenue recognition arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, which for us means April 3, 2011 (the beginning of our fiscal year). The new guidance prescribes a methodology for determining the fair value, or best estimated selling price, of deliverables on an individual element basis, including elements for which objective reliable evidence of fair value previously did not exist. As noted in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under the current revenue guidance, for arrangements containing products considered to be "established", the majority of our revenue is recognized upon delivery of the product. For arrangements containing products considered to be "new", or containing customer acceptance provisions that are deemed more than perfunctory, revenue is recorded upon customer acceptance. If we make incorrect estimates or judgments in applying our revenue recognition policies, for example, if we incorrectly classify a product as "established" when it should have been "new", it may impact the timing of recognizing that revenue and may further result in failing to meet guidance provided by us or require that we restate our prior financial statements. Additional errors in applying estimates or judgments in accounting policies may also adversely impact our operating results and may, in certain cases, require us to restate prior financial statements. Risks Relating to Our Polysilicon Business We license and do not own certain components of the technology underlying our CVD reactor and STC converter products. Certain components of the technology underlying our CVD reactor and STC converter products is not owned by us, but is licensed under a ninety-nine year license agreement that could be terminated in the event of a material breach by us of such agreement that remains uncured for more than thirty days, or upon our bankruptcy or insolvency. To the extent such components are deemed to be incorporated into our current or future products, any termination of our rights to use such technology could have a material adverse effect on our ability to offer our polysilicon products and therefore on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects if our company was unable to secure these rights in a different manner or from an alternative arrangement. Revenue recognition on sales of our CVD reactor and STC converter products may be affected by a number of factors, some of which are outside our control. Revenue from sales of our CVD reactors and STC converters is recognized by us only upon customer acceptance in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. The timing of customer acceptance depends on many factors, some of which are outside our control. Acceptance of our polysilicon products does not occur until after they have been received by the customer, are operational and have performed satisfactorily in agreed upon tests. Due to the complexity of integrating the reactors into the customers' plants, it is possible that there may be significant delays between our 36 Table of Contents shipping the reactors and the reactors becoming operational and capable of being tested. There is therefore a risk that we may be unable to recognize revenue on our existing orders in our backlog for polysilicon products in a timely manner or at all, even if we fully perform our obligations in respect of such orders in a timely manner. Delays in customer acceptance of such orders could adversely affect further demand for our reactors and STC converters, and may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Additionally, due to the nature of our CVD contracts, there continues to be a risk that if we fail to perform our obligations in respect of an order, such order may be terminated and/or we may be required to pay damages or refund all or a portion of the purchase price. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of our revenue recognition policy relating to our polysilicon products and the significant size of our individual contracts for polysilicon products. The market for polysilicon has been cyclical, resulting in periods of insufficient or excess production capacity and could result in variation in demand for our products. The market for polysilicon has been cyclical. Demand for polysilicon increased and prices that manufacturers charged for polysilicon was stable in 2010. This, however followed a period in which polysilicon supply had increased due to an increase in polysilicon production capacity as a result of new entrants to the polysilicon production industry during 2008 and 2009. Polysilicon supply had also increased due to a slowdown in the solar panel market. These factors, among others, resulted in excess polysilicon manufacturing capacity and declining prices in polysilicon. An excess in production capacity for polysilicon could adversely affect demand for our CVD reactors. There can be no certainty that the increased demand in 2010 will persist for an extended period of time, or at all. A lack of demand for our CVD reactors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Conversely, if there are shortages of polysilicon in the future, the PV industry may be unable to continue to grow and/or may decline, and, as a result, demand for our PV products may decrease or may be eliminated. Risks Relating to the Photovoltaic Industry Government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications could be reduced or eliminated. Demand for PV equipment, including on-grid applications, has historically been dependant in part on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Currently, the cost of solar electricity exceeds the retail price of electricity in most major markets in the world. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain, South Korea, Japan, China and the United States, have provided subsidies in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax write-offs and other incentives to end-users, distributors, systems integrators and/or manufacturers of PV products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Many of these government incentives have expired or are due to expire in time, phase out over time, cease upon exhaustion of the allocated funding and/or are subject to cancellation or non-renewal by the applicable authority. For example, in March, 2010 Germany announced a 16% reduction in their solar feed-in tariff rate for roof-top solar systems and the elimination of subsidies of ground-based solar systems on agricultural land, both of which became effective in July 2010. Spain, which has also been a major market for PV products, reduced subsidies in 2009 from 2,400 MW per year to 500 MW of solar projects. The reduction, expiration or elimination of relevant government subsidies or other economic incentives may result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy relative to conventional and other renewable sources of energy, and adversely affect demand for PV equipment or result in increased price competition, all of which could 37 Table of Contents cause our sales and revenue to decline and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Further, any government subsidies and economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether at any time and for any reason. Relevant statutes or regulations may be found to be anti-competitive, unconstitutional or may be amended or discontinued for other reasons. Some government subsidies and incentives have been subject to challenge in courts in certain foreign jurisdictions. New proceedings challenging minimum price regulations or other government incentives in other countries in which we conduct our business may be initiated, and if successful, could cause a decrease in demand for our products. The reduction, expiration or elimination of relevant government subsidies or other economic incentives may result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy relative to conventional and other renewable sources of energy, and adversely affect demand for PV equipment or result in increased price competition, all of which could cause our sales and revenue to decline and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of photovoltaic products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of user-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are currently being modified and may be modified again in the future. These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of PV products and investment in the research and development of PV technology. For example, without a mandated regulatory exception for PV systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to end-users of PV systems and make such systems less attractive to potential customers, which may have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. The photovoltaic industry may not be able to compete successfully with conventional power generation or other sources of renewable energy. Although the PV industry has experienced growth in recent years, it still comprises a relatively small component of the total power generation market and competes with other sources of renewable energy, as well as conventional power generation. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and thus demand for solar wafer manufacturing equipment, including the following: •cost-effectiveness of solar energy compared to conventional power generation and other renewable energy sources; •performance and reliability of solar modules compared to conventional power generation and other renewable energy sources and products; •availability and size of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar energy industry; •success of other renewable energy generation technologies such as hydroelectric, wind, geothermal and biomass; and •fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional power generation and other renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels. 38 Table of Contents As a result of any of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Technological changes in the photovoltaic industry could render existing products and technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. The PV industry is rapidly evolving and is highly competitive. Technological advances may result in lower manufacturing costs for PV products and/or PV product manufacturing equipment, and may render existing PV products and/or PV product manufacturing equipment obsolete. We will therefore need to keep pace with technological advances in the industry, including committing resources to ongoing research and development, acquiring new technologies, continually improving our existing products and continually expanding and/or updating our product offering, in order to compete effectively in the future. Our failure to further refine our technology and/or develop and introduce new solar power products could cause our PV products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect demand for our products, and our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Risks Relating to the Sapphire Business If our sapphire products do not achieve market acceptance, prospects for our sapphire business would be limited. As a result of our acquisition of Crystal Systems, a portion of our business will consist of the manufacture and sale of sapphire materials, which are used in the LED industry and other specialty markets. Potential customers for sapphire and sapphire-based LED materials may be reluctant to adopt such products as an alternative to existing traditional sapphire materials or lighting technology. In addition, our potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing sapphire and LED technologies, and may perceive risks relating to the complexity, reliability, quality, usefulness and cost-effectiveness of our sapphire material products compared to other sapphire and LED products available in the market. If acceptance of sapphire material and sapphire-based LEDs do not increase significantly, opportunities to increase this portion of our business and revenues would be limited. Any of these factors could have an adverse impact on the growth of that portion of our business and the recoverability of our investment in Crystal Systems. Historically, the sapphire industry has experienced volatility in product demand and pricing. Changes in average selling prices of the sapphire material products as a result of competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts and new product introductions by competitors could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, the sapphire materials industry is characterized by rapid technological innovations, with improvements being made using several different crystal growth processes. If we are unable to improve our technology and equipment adequately, we will lose customers and our business would be adversely impacted. The commercialization of our advanced crystal growth furnaces may not be successful. We have recently entered into contracts to supply our ASF furnaces that incorporate advanced Heat Exchange Method, or HEM, technology. We shipped our first two ASF furnaces in May 2011 and expect to ship more furnaces pursuant to these contracts in the near future. We have no experience installing and operating the ASF furnace in any customer facility, and failure of these furnaces to operate properly for any reason will prevent us from recognizing revenue, would likely result in claims against us for the return of deposits, would harm our reputation and our results of operations. Since we are new to this business, we may not be able to execute on our strategy to ship and install such furnaces for various reasons, including if we are unable to obtain the necessary components from third parties. 39 Table of Contents In addition, we may not be able to enter into additional agreements to sell such ASF furnaces in a timely manner, or at all. Among the factors that may delay or prevent the realization of our business plan include: limited resources that we can utilize to manufacture such furnaces; developments by competitors and others in the sapphire market that make the ASF furnaces inefficient or obsolete; or power demands of these furnaces that limit broad market acceptance. We may not be able to execute on our strategy to sell advanced sapphire furnaces for reasons within or outside of our control, and even if we are able to sell these furnaces, we may be unable to recognize revenue on these furnaces in a timely manner, or at all. While we believe that the ASF furnace provides advantages in sapphire growth there are other competitors in the market that also utilize this and other processes for sapphire growing that could compete with our technology and they may be able to more cost-effectively produce high quality, large diameter boules. These competitors include existing sapphire growing companies and new entrants to the industry attracted by the prospects of the LED market. In addition, other companies may also begin to offer furnaces to sapphire growers. If any current or potential competitor develops or purchases comparable or superior technology that enables the growing of higher quality, larger diameter sapphire material or that offers for sale a furnace that grows sapphire material more cost effectively than ours, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Crystal growth using the ASF furnace requires a consistent supply of power and any interruption in the supply of power may result in sapphire material that has reduced or no sales value. The process by which we grow sapphire boules using the ASF furnace technology requires that the furnace be supplied with a consistent supply of power during the cycle required to grow a boule. If there are certain types of power interruptions, which we have experienced at our Salem facility, even for a brief period of time, the sapphire boule being generated by that furnace will be of inferior quality and we would likely be unable to sell that sapphire material to a customer. In addition, if potential customers of our ASF furnace do not have consistent power supplies, our furnace would not gain market acceptance because it will not create boules of the quality that may be expected by our customers and we would likely not meet the required contractual acceptance criteria necessary to receive the final installment payment and we further may not be able to recognize any revenue on that ASF furnace if such acceptance criteria is not met. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, could depress our stock price. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. In addition, future equity financings could also result in dilution to our stockholders and new securities could have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of the shares offered hereby. Our certificate of incorporation currently authorizes us to issue up to 500 million shares of common stock, and as of April 2, 2011, we had approximately 126 million shares of common stock outstanding. All of these shares, shares are freely tradable, in the public market under a registration statement or an exemption under the securities laws. Moreover, as of April 2, 2011, 7.6 million shares of our common stock were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding vested and unvested options and upon vesting of restricted stock units. 40 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders may receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: •the removal of directors only by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; •any vacancy on our board of directors, however occurring, including a vacancy resulting from an enlargement of the board, may only be filled by vote of the directors then in office; •inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders or take action by written consent; •advance notice requirements for board nominations and proposing matters to be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and •authorization of the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock without the need for action by stockholders. Our common stock has only been publicly traded since July 24, 2008, and we expect that the price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. There has been a public market for our common stock only since July 24, 2008. Broad market, industry and economic factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: •actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; •changes in market prices for our products or for our raw materials; •changes in our financial guidance or estimates made by us or by any securities analysts who may cover our stock or our failure to meet the estimates made by securities analysts; •changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures or significant contracts; •changes in governmental policies with respect to energy; •additions or departures of key personnel; and •sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers or by our larger stockholders. Announcements of contract awards could have a significant impact on our stock price. It is common in the PV sector for equipment manufacturers to enter into contracts for the sale and delivery of substantial amounts of equipment, involving highly competitive bidding situations. Public announcements of contract awards often cause a reaction in the stock market and affect, sometimes significantly, the trading price of the stock of the manufacturer that received a contract award. It could also have a negative effect on the trading price of stock of competitors that did not receive such contract. This reaction may be unrelated to the historical results of operations or financial condition of the affected companies or, in the case of unsuccessful competitors, any guidance they may have provided with respect to their future financial results. An announcement that a competitor of ours was awarded a significant customer contract could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our stock. 41 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect that our quarterly results will continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect that our quarterly results will continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Future quarterly fluctuations may result from a number of factors, including: •the size of new contracts and when we are able to recognize the related revenue, especially with respect to our polysilicon products; •requests for delays in deliveries by our customers; •delays in customer acceptances of our products; •delays in deliveries from our vendors; •our rate of progress in the fulfillment of our obligations under our contracts; •the degree of market acceptance of our products and service offerings; •the mix of products and services sold; •budgeting cycles of our customers; •product lifecycles; •changes in demand for our products and services; •the level and timing of expenses for product development and sales, general and administrative expenses; •competition by existing and emerging competitors in the PV and sapphire industry; •announcements by our competitors or customers of the awarding of a significant contract; •termination of contracts in our backlog; •our success in developing and selling new products and services, controlling costs, attracting and retaining qualified personnel and expanding our sales force; •changes in government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications; •announcements regarding litigation or claims against us; •changes in export licensing or export restrictions with respect to our products; •changes in our strategy; •foreign exchange fluctuations; and •general economic conditions. Based on these factors, we believe our future operating results will vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. As a result, quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful nor do they indicate what our future performance will be. Hedging activity and sales of our common stock related to the Mandatorily Exchangeable Notes issued by UBS AG and/or the expectation of distribution of our common stock at maturity of the exchangeable notes could depress our stock price. During September 2010, UBS AG sold its Mandatorily Exchangeable Notes due 2013, or the exchangeable notes, pursuant to which UBS AG will deliver to holders of the exchangeable notes at maturity up to 17,500,000 shares of our common stock or the value of such shares in cash, or a combination of cash and shares, based on a formula linked to the price of our common stock. In 42 Table of Contents connection with the issuance by UBS AG of its exchangeable notes, GT Solar Holdings, LLC sold an aggregate of 14,000,000 shares of our common stock to UBS Securities LLC, an affiliate of UBS AG. We understand that UBS AG and one or more of its affiliates have entered into and/or are expected to enter into hedging arrangements related to UBS AG's obligations under the exchangeable notes. This hedging activity will likely involve trading in our common stock or in other instruments, such as options or swaps, based upon our common stock, and may include sales of common stock acquired by an affiliate of UBS AG upon early exchange of exchangeable notes. This hedging activity could affect our stock price, including by depressing it. Also, the price of our common stock could be depressed by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the exchangeable notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in us and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to occur involving our common stock by investors in the exchangeable notes. Our stock price could become more volatile and could be depressed by investors' anticipation of the potential distribution into the market of substantial additional amounts of our common stock at the maturity of the exchangeable notes. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and as a result, the only opportunity to achieve a return on an investment in our common stock is if the price appreciates. On August 1, 2008, we paid a dividend in the aggregate amount of $90.0 million to our then existing stockholders, including GT Solar Holdings, LLC. We currently do not expect to declare or pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, our credit agreement with Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands, which we entered into in December 2010, restricts our right to declare or make any dividends, subject to certain exceptions. As a result, the only opportunity to achieve a return on an investment in our common stock will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and the shares are sold at a profit. We cannot assure our investors that the market price for our common stock will ever exceed the price that was paid. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance. From time to time, we release guidance in our quarterly earnings releases, quarterly earnings conference call or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our management's estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, is based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon, or otherwise consider, our guidance in making an investment decision in respect of our common stock. 43 Table of Contents Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in our "Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and such differences may be adverse and material. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 