Item 1A. Risk Factors. Discussed below are the more significant risk factors relating to us. Risks Related to our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable us to make cash distributions to holders of common and subordinated units. In order to make cash distributions at our minimum distribution rate of $0.30 per common unit per quarter, or $1.20 per unit per year, we will require Available Cash of approximately $24.1 million per quarter, or $96.4 million per year, depending on the actual number of common units and subordinated units outstanding. We may not have sufficient Available Cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable us to make cash distributions at the minimum distribution rate. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from operations, which will fluctuate based on, among other things: • the rates charged for transportation, storage and gathering services, and the volumes of natural gas contracted by customers for transportation, storage and gathering services; • the overall demand for natural gas in the southeastern, mid-Continent and mid-Atlantic regions of the United States and the quantities of natural gas available for transport, especially from the Gulf of Mexico, Appalachian and mid-Continent areas; • regulatory action affecting the demand for natural gas, the supply of natural gas, the rates we can charge, contracts for services, existing contracts, operating costs and operating flexibility; • regulatory and economic limitations on the development of LNG import terminals in the Gulf Coast region; and • the level of operating and maintenance, and general and administrative costs. In addition, the actual amount of cash available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of capital expenditures to complete construction projects; • the cost and form of payment of acquisitions; • debt service requirements and other liabilities; • fluctuations in working capital needs; • the ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • restrictions on distributions contained in debt agreements; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. Our subsidiaries and equity affiliates conduct operations and own our operating assets, which may affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. In addition, we cannot control the amount of cash that will be received from Gulfstream and Market Hub, and we may be required to contribute significant cash to fund their operations. We are a partnership holding company and our operating subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the ownership interests in our subsidiaries and our equity investments, including Gulfstream and Market Hub. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders depends on the performance of these subsidiaries and equity investments and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries and equity investments to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, the provisions of existing and future indebtedness, applicable state partnership and limited liability company laws and other laws and regulations, including FERC policies. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Market Hub and Gulfstream are expected to generate approximately one-half of the cash we distribute. Spectra Energy operates Market Hub and the operation of Gulfstream is shared between Spectra Energy and Williams. Accordingly, we do not control the amount of cash distributed to us nor do we control ongoing operational decisions, including the incurrence of capital expenditures that we may be required to fund. Our lack of control over the operations of Gulfstream and Market Hub may mean that we do not receive the amount of cash we expect to be distributed to us. In addition, we may be required to provide additional capital, and these contributions may be material. Neither Gulfstream nor Market Hub is prohibited from incurring indebtedness by the terms of their respective limited liability company agreement and general partnership agreements. If Gulfstream or Market Hub were to incur significant additional indebtedness, it could inhibit their respective abilities to make distributions to us. This lack of control may significantly and adversely affect our ability to distribute cash. Natural gas transportation, storage and gathering operations are subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to establish transportation, storage and gathering rates that would allow us to recover the full cost of operating our pipelines, including a reasonable return, and our ability to make distributions. Our interstate natural gas transportation, storage and gathering operations are subject to federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Specifically, our natural gas pipeline systems and certain of our storage facilities and related assets are subject to regulation by the FERC. Its authority to regulate natural gas pipeline transportation services includes the rates charged for the services, terms and conditions of service, certification and construction of new facilities, the extension or abandonment of services and facilities, the maintenance of accounts and records, the acquisition and disposition of facilities, the initiation and discontinuation of services, and various other matters. In addition, we cannot give any assurance regarding the likely future regulations under which we will operate our natural gas transportation, storage and gathering businesses or the effect such regulation could have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions. Certain transportation services are subject to long-term, fixed-price “negotiated rate” contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if our cost to perform services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts, and, as a result, our costs could exceed our revenues received under such contracts. Under the FERC policy, a regulated service provider and a customer may mutually agree to sign a contract for service at a “negotiated rate” which may be above or below the FERC-regulated “recourse rate” for that service. For 2009, 99% of Gulfstream’s firm revenues were derived from such negotiated rate contracts and approximately 44% of Gas Transportation and Storage’s firm revenues were derived from capacity reservation charges under negotiated rate contracts. These negotiated rate contracts are not subject to adjustment for increased costs which could be produced by inflation or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services. It is possible that Gulfstream’s, East Tennessee’s, Ozark’s and Saltville’s costs to perform services under these negotiated rate contracts will exceed the negotiated rates. If this occurs, it could decrease cash flows from Gulfstream, East Tennessee, Ozark and Saltville. Market Hub’s right to charge “market-based rates” at its Egan storage facility is subject to the continued existence of certain conditions related to the competitive position of Market Hub and, if those conditions change, the right to charge market-based rates could be terminated. Certain of the rates charged by Market Hub are regulated by the FERC pursuant to its market-based rate policy, which allows regulated storage companies to charge rates above those which would be permitted under traditional cost-of-service regulation. The right of Market Hub to charge market-based rates is based upon determinations by the FERC that it does not have market power in the relevant market areas it serves. This determination of a lack of market power is subject to review and revision by the FERC if circumstances change. In the event of an adverse determination concerning market power with respect to Market Hub, its rates could become subject to cost-of-service regulation which could have adverse consequences for the cash flows of Market Hub. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Increased competition from alternative natural gas transportation, storage and gathering options and alternative fuel sources could have a significant financial effect on us. We compete primarily with other interstate and intrastate pipelines, storage and gathering facilities in the transportation, storage and gathering of natural gas. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and access to greater supplies of natural gas than we do. Some of these competitors may expand or construct transportation, storage and gathering systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. Moreover, Spectra Energy and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us. Further, natural gas also competes with other forms of energy available to our customers, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. The principal elements of competition among natural gas transportation, storage and gathering assets are rates, terms of service, access to natural gas supplies, flexibility and reliability. The FERC’s policies promoting competition in natural gas markets are having the effect of increasing the natural gas transportation, storage and gathering options for our traditional customer base. As a result, we could experience some “turnback” of firm capacity as existing agreements expire. If East Tennessee, Ozark, Saltville, Gulfstream or Market Hub are unable to remarket this capacity or can remarket it only at substantially discounted rates compared to previous contracts, they may have to bear the costs associated with the turned back capacity. Increased competition could reduce the volumes of natural gas transported, stored or gathered by our systems or, in cases where we do not have long-term fixed rate contracts, could force us to lower our transportation, storage or gathering rates. Competition could intensify the negative effect of factors that significantly decrease demand for natural gas in the markets served by our pipeline systems, such as competing or alternative forms of energy, a recession or other adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas. Our ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Any significant decrease in supplies of natural gas connected to our areas of operation could adversely affect business and operating results, and reduce cash available for distribution. All of our businesses are dependent on the continued availability of natural gas production and reserves. Low prices for natural gas or regulatory limitations could adversely affect development of additional reserves and production that is accessible by our pipeline and storage assets. Production from existing wells and natural gas supply basins with access to our pipelines will naturally decline over time. Additionally, the amount of natural gas reserves underlying these wells may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than anticipated. Accordingly, to maintain or increase throughput on our pipelines and cash flows associated with the transportation of gas, our customers must continually obtain new supplies of natural gas. If new supplies of natural gas are not obtained to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing supply basins, the overall volume of natural gas transported, stored and gathered on our systems would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. We may not be able to maintain or replace expiring natural gas transportation, storage and gathering contracts at favorable rates. Our primary exposure to market risk occurs at the time existing transportation, storage and gathering contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation and renewal. A portion of the revenue generated by our systems in 2009 is attributable to firm capacity reservation fees that are set to expire on or prior to December 31, 2012. For Gas Transportation and Storage, Gulfstream and Market Hub, those portions were 18%, 1% and 51%, 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements respectively. Upon expiration, we may not be able to extend contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term basis. The extension or replacement of existing contracts depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including: • the level of existing and new competition to deliver natural gas to our markets; • the growth in demand for natural gas in our markets; • whether the market will continue to support long-term contracts; • whether our business strategy continues to be successful; and • the effects of state regulation on customer contracting practices. Our key markets are projected to continue to exhibit higher than average annual growth in natural gas demand of approximately 3.0% through 2019 as compared with the U.S. lower 48 average growth rate of approximately 2% for the same period. This demand growth is primarily driven by the natural gas-fired electric generation sector. Any failure to extend or replace a significant portion of our existing contracts may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. We depend on certain key customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of any of these key customers could result in a decline in our revenues and cash available to make distributions. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the three largest customers for Gas Transportation and Storage were Atmos Energy Corporation, CNX Gas Corporation and Southwestern Energy Services, Co.; for Gulfstream were Florida Power & Light Company, Florida Power Corporation d/b/a Progress Energy Florida, Inc. and TECO Energy and its affiliates; and for Market Hub were J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation, NiSource and AGL Resources. In 2009, these customers accounted for approximately 26%, 87% and 25% of the operating revenues for Gas Transportation and Storage, Gulfstream and Market Hub, respectively. While most of these customers are subject to long-term contracts, the loss of all or even a portion of the contracted volumes of these customers as a result of competition, creditworthiness, inability to negotiate extensions or replacements of contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions, unless we are able to contract for comparable volumes from other customers at favorable rates. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our pipelines become unavailable to transport natural gas, our revenues and cash available to make distributions could be adversely affected. We depend upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and storage facilities. Because we do not own these third-party pipelines or facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If these or any other pipeline connection were to become unavailable for current or future volumes of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the facility, lack of capacity or any other reason, our ability to operate efficiently and continue shipping natural gas to end-markets could be restricted, thereby reducing revenues. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnect could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions. If we do not complete expansion projects or make and integrate acquisitions, our future growth may be limited. A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow the cash distributions on our units by expanding our business. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to complete expansion projects and make acquisitions that result in an increase in cash generated. We may be unable to complete successful, accretive expansion projects or acquisitions for any of the following reasons: • an inability to identify attractive expansion projects or acquisition candidates or we are outbid by competitors; 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • an inability to obtain necessary rights-of-way or government approvals, including regulatory agencies; • an inability to successfully integrate the businesses we build or acquire; • we are unable to raise financing for such expansion projects or acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; • incorrect assumptions about volumes, reserves, revenues and costs, including synergies and potential growth; or • we are unable to secure adequate customer commitments to use the newly expanded or acquired facilities. Expansion projects or future acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per unit basis. Even if we complete expansion projects or make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these expansion projects or acquisitions may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per-unit basis. Any expansion project or acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • an inability to complete expansion projects on schedule or within the budgeted cost due to the unavailability of required construction personnel, equipment or materials, and the risk of cost overruns resulting from inflation or increased costs of materials, labor and equipment; • a decrease in our liquidity as a result of us using a significant portion of our Available Cash or borrowing capacity to finance the project or acquisition; • an inability to complete expansion projects on schedule due to accidents, weather conditions or an inability to obtain necessary permits; • an inability to receive cash flows from a newly built or acquired asset until it is operational; • unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and • customer losses at the acquired business. Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding, delay its completion or increase our anticipated costs. As a result, our new facilities may not achieve expected investment returns, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. If any expansion projects or acquisitions that we ultimately complete are not accretive to cash available for distribution, our ability to make distributions may be reduced. The amount of our cash available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flows and not solely on profitability, which may prevent us from making cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Our amount of cash available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flows, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record a net loss for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net earnings for financial accounting purposes. Significant prolonged changes in natural gas prices could affect supply and demand, reducing contracted volumes on our systems and adversely affecting revenues and cash available to make distributions over the long-term. Higher natural gas prices over the long term could result in a decline in the demand for natural gas and, therefore, in the throughput on our systems. Also, lower natural gas prices over the long term could result in a 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements decline in the production of natural gas resulting in reduced contracted volumes on our systems. In addition, prolonged reduced price volatility could reduce the revenues generated by our parking-and-lending and interruptible storage services. As a result, significant prolonged changes in natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our natural gas transportation, storage and gathering activities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. We may incur substantial costs in order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations. Moreover, new and stricter environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be implemented that significantly increase our compliance costs or the cost of any remediation of environmental contamination that may become necessary, and these costs could be material. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations, or the permits issued under them, may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. In addition, strict joint and several liability may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Private parties may also have the right to pursue legal actions against us to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for noncompliance, with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage that may result from environmental and other effects of operations. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs through insurance or increased revenues, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. The enactment of future climate change legislation could result in increased operating costs and delays in obtaining necessary permits for our capital projects. The current international climate framework, the United Nations-sponsored Kyoto Protocol, prescribes specific targets to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for developed countries for the 2008-2012 period. The Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012 and has not been signed by the United States. United Nations-sponsored international negotiations were held in Copenhagen, Denmark in December 2009 with the intent of defining a future agreement for 2012 and beyond. While the talks resulted in a non-binding political agreement, to date, a binding successor accord to the Kyoto Protocol has not been realized. In the United States, climate change action is evolving at state, regional and federal levels. We expect that a number of our assets and operations could be affected by eventual mandatory GHG programs; however, the timing and specific policy objectives in many jurisdictions, including at the federal level, remain uncertain. In addition, a number of states in the United States are establishing or considering state or regional programs that would mandate reductions in GHG emissions. We expect a number of our assets and operations could be affected either directly or indirectly by state or regional programs. However, as the key details of future GHG restrictions and compliance mechanisms remain undefined, the likely future effects on our business are highly uncertain. The EPA has proposed the Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule in 2009 to address how GHG emissions would be regulated under the existing Clean Air Act. This proposed rulemaking has not yet been finalized. Regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act would subject our new capital projects to additional permitting requirements which may result in delays in completing such projects. In addition, several legislative proposals have been introduced and discussed in the U.S. Congress that would impose GHG emissions constraints, including H.R. 2454 – the American Clean Energy and Security Act, which passed the House of Representatives in June 2009. To date, similar legislation has not been considered by the full U.S. Senate. Due to the speculative outlook regarding any U.S. federal and state policies, we cannot 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements estimate the potential effect of proposed GHG policies on our future consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. However such legislation could materially increase our operating costs, require material capital expenditures or create additional permitting, which could delay proposed construction projects. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and any necessary pipeline repair or preventative or remedial measures. The DOT has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm in “high consequence areas.” The regulations require operators to: • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could affect a high consequence area; • improve data collection, integration and analysis; • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and • implement preventive and mitigating actions. Our actual implementation costs may be affected by industry-wide demand for the associated contractors and service providers. Additionally, should we fail to comply with DOT regulations, we could be subject to penalties and fines. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the transportation, storage and gathering of natural gas, including: • damage to pipelines, facilities and related equipment caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters, explosions and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from third parties, including from construction, farm and utility equipment; • leaks of natural gas and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities; • collapse of storage caverns; • operator error; • environmental pollution; • explosions and blowouts; • risks related to underwater pipelines in the Gulf of Mexico, which are susceptible to damage from shifting as a result of water currents (as seen in the Gulf of Mexico following Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Gustav and Ike), as well as damage from vessels; • risks related to pipeline that traverses areas in Florida where karst conditions exist. Karst conditions refers to terrain, usually found where limestone or other carbonate rock is present, that may subside or result in a sinkhole collapse when the underlying water table changes; and • risks related to operating in a marine environment. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage which may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities. We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. Changes in the insurance markets subsequent to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, and Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Gustav and Ike have made it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of coverage, and we may elect to self insure a portion of our asset portfolio. In addition, we do not maintain offshore business interruption insurance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we would otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes or that the insurance coverage we do obtain will not contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. The occurrence of any operating risks not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. At December 31, 2009, we had $240 million in revolving debt under our $500 million credit facility. We continue to have the ability to incur additional debt, subject to limitations in our credit facility. Our level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; and • our debt level could make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy in general. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to service debt under our revolving credit facility will depend on market interest rates, since we anticipate that the interest rates applicable to our borrowings will fluctuate with movements in interest rate markets. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to affect any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. Restrictions in our credit facility may limit our ability to make distributions and may limit our ability to capitalize on acquisition and other business opportunities. We are a holding company with no business operations. As such, we depend upon the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries and equity investments and the distribution of that cash to us in order to meet our obligations and to allow us to make distributions to our unitholders. Any interruption of distributions to us from our subsidiaries and equity investments may limit our ability to satisfy our obligations and to make distributions. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue business activities associated with our subsidiaries and equity investments. Our credit facility contains covenants that restrict or limit our ability to: • make distributions if any default or event of default, as defined, occurs; 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • make other restricted distributions or dividends on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of partnership interests; • incur additional indebtedness or guarantee other indebtedness; • grant liens or make certain negative pledges; • make certain loans or investments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • make any material change to the nature of our business from the midstream energy business; • make a disposition of assets; or • enter into a merger, consolidate, liquidate, wind up or dissolve. The credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and tests. The ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the credit facility may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our credit facility, the lenders will be able to accelerate the maturity of all borrowings under the credit facility and demand repayment of amounts outstanding, the lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate, and the operating partnership may be prohibited from making any distributions. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Any subsequent replacement of our credit facility or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. The credit and risk profile of our general partner and its owner, Spectra Energy, could adversely affect our credit ratings and risk profile, which could increase our borrowing costs or hinder our ability to raise capital. The credit and business risk profiles of our general partner and Spectra Energy may be factors considered in credit evaluations of us. This is because our general partner controls our business activities, including our cash distribution policy, acquisition strategy and business risk profile. Another factor that may be considered is the financial condition of Spectra Energy, including the degree of its financial leverage and its dependence on cash flow from the partnership to service its indebtedness. If we were to have an independent credit rating in the future, our credit rating could be adversely affected by the leverage of our general partner or Spectra Energy, as credit rating agencies may consider the leverage and credit profile of Spectra Energy and its affiliates because of their ownership interest in and control of us, and the strong operational links between Spectra Energy and us. Any adverse effect on our credit rating would increase our cost of borrowing or hinder our ability to raise financing in the capital markets, which would impair our ability to grow our business and make distributions. Terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks, have resulted in increased costs to our business. Continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns may adversely affect our results of operations. Acts of terrorism and any possible reprisals as a consequence of any action by the United States and its allies could be directed against companies operating in the United States. This risk is particularly great for companies, like ours, operating in any energy infrastructure industry that handles volatile gaseous and liquid hydrocarbons. The potential for terrorism has subjected our operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, we may experience increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security for our facilities and pipelines, such as additional physical facility and pipeline security, and additional security personnel. Moreover, any physical damage to high profile facilities resulting from acts of terrorism may not be covered, or covered fully, by insurance. We may be required to expend material amounts of capital to repair any facilities, the expenditure of which could adversely affect our cash flows and business. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Spectra Energy controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our general partner and its affiliates, including Spectra Energy, have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties, and may favor their own interests to the detriment of us. Spectra Energy owns and controls our general partner. Some of our general partner’s directors, and some of its executive officers, are directors or officers of Spectra Energy or its affiliates. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to Spectra Energy and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to Spectra Energy. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between Spectra Energy and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Spectra Energy to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Spectra Energy’s directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the owners of Spectra Energy, which may be contrary to our interests; • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as Spectra Energy and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest; • Spectra Energy and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us; • our general partner may make a determination to receive a quantity of our Class B units in exchange for resetting the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights without the approval of the Conflicts Committee of our general partner or our unitholders; • some officers of Spectra Energy who provide services to us also will devote significant time to the business of Spectra Energy and will be compensated by Spectra Energy for the services rendered to it; • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. By purchasing common units, unitholders will be deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and, based on the applicable facts and circumstances, whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure (which reduces operating surplus) or an expansion capital expenditure (which does not reduce operating surplus). This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • in some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or our affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; • our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. Affiliates of our general partner, including Spectra Energy, DCP Midstream, LLC and DCP Midstream Partners, LP, are not limited in their ability to compete with us, which could limit commercial activities or our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses. Neither our partnership agreement nor the omnibus agreement among us, Spectra Energy and others prohibits affiliates of our general partner, including Spectra Energy, DCP Midstream, LLC and DCP Midstream Partners, LP, from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, Spectra Energy and its affiliates may acquire, construct or dispose of additional transportation, storage and gathering or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. Each of these entities is a large, established participant in the midstream energy business and each has significantly greater resources and experience than we have, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with these entities with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. As a result, competition from these entities could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution. If a unitholder is not an Eligible Holder, such unitholder will not be entitled to receive distributions or allocations of income or loss on common units and those common units will be subject to redemption at a price that may be below the current market price. In order to comply with certain FERC rate-making policies applicable to entities that pass through taxable income to their owners, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common and subordinated units. Eligible Holders are individuals or entities subject to United States federal income taxation on the income generated by us or entities not subject to United States federal income taxation on the income generated by us, so long as all of the entity’s owners are subject to such taxation. If a unitholder is not a person who fits the requirements to be an Eligible Holder, such unitholder will not receive distributions or allocations of income and loss on the unitholder’s units and the unitholder runs the risk of having the units redeemed by us at the lower of the unitholder’s purchase price cost or the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. Cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which will be determined by our general partner, will be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution. Pursuant to an omnibus agreement we entered into with Spectra Energy, our general partner and certain of their affiliates, Spectra Energy will receive reimbursement for the payment of operating expenses related to our operations and for the provision of various general and administrative services for our benefit, including costs for rendering administrative staff and support services, and overhead allocated to us, which amounts will be determined by our general partner in its sole discretion. Payments for these services will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of our cash otherwise available for distribution. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of our common and subordinated units, and restricts the remedies available to holders of our common and subordinated units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting us, our affiliates or any limited partner; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of our partnership; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the Conflicts Committee of the board of directors of our general partner acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith. In determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” the general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to unitholders; • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision the general partner or its Conflicts Committee acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder will agree to become bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Our general partner may elect to cause us to issue Class B units to the general partner in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the Conflicts Committee of the general partner or holders of our common units and subordinated units. This may result in lower distributions to holders of our common units in certain situations. Our general partner has the right, at a time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial cash target distribution levels at higher levels based on the distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements minimum quarterly distribution amount will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution amount per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”) and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution amount. In connection with resetting these target distribution levels, our general partner will be entitled to receive a number of Class B units. The Class B units will be entitled to the same cash distributions per unit as our common units and will be convertible into an equal number of common units. The number of Class B units to be issued will be equal to that number of common units whose aggregate quarterly cash distributions equaled the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or may be expected to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued our Class B units, which are entitled to receive cash distributions from us on the same priority as our common units, rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued new Class B units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to our general partner incentive distribution rights. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which the common units will trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders will not elect our general partner or its board of directors, and will have no right to elect our general partner or board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, will be chosen entirely by its owners and not by the unitholders. Furthermore, if the unitholders were dissatisfied with the performance of the general partner, they will have little ability to remove the general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent. The unitholders will be unable initially to remove our general partner without its consent because the general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. Our general partner and its affiliates own 73% of our aggregate outstanding common and subordinated units. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on our common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect our common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. “Cause” is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of the general partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with the general partner’s performance in managing us will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of all subordinated units to common units. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. If we are deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, it would adversely affect the price of our common units and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our assets include a 100% ownership interest in East Tennessee, Ozark and Saltville, a 24.5% limited liability company interest in Gulfstream and a 50% general partner interest in Market Hub. If a sufficient amount of our assets, such as our ownership interests in Gulfstream and Market Hub or other assets acquired in the future, are deemed to be “investment securities” within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify the organizational structure or contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Although general partner interests are typically not considered “securities” or “investment securities,” there is a risk that our 50% general partner interest in Market Hub could be deemed to be an investment security. In that event, it is possible that our ownership of this interest, combined with our 24.5% interest in Gulfstream or assets acquired in the future, could result in us being required to register under the Investment Company Act if we were not successful in obtaining exemptive relief or otherwise modifying the organizational structure or applicable contract rights. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from its affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. The occurrence of some or all of these events would adversely affect the price of the common units and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of our general partner or its parent from transferring all or a portion of their respective ownership interest in the general partner or its parent to a third party. The new owners of our general partner or its parent would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of its parent with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, incur debt or for other purposes. In recent years, the U.S. credit markets have experienced 50-year record lows in interest rates. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is affected by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. Therefore, changes in interest rates may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse effect on our unit price and the ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, to incur debt or for other purposes. We may issue additional units without our common unitholders’ approval, which would dilute our existing common unitholders’ ownership interests. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • each unitholder’s proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Spectra Energy and its affiliates may sell units in the public or private markets, which sales could have an adverse effect on the trading price of the common units. As of February 26, 2010, Spectra Energy and its affiliates hold an aggregate of 37,337,521 common units and 21,638,730 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period, which could occur on the first business day after June 30, 2010, and all of the subordinated units may convert into common units if additional tests are satisfied. The sale of any of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse effect on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our common unitholder to sell the units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, our common unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. A common unitholder may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. As of February 26, 2010, our general partner and its affiliates own approximately 64% of our outstanding common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units (other than for the conversion of the subordinated units into common units), our general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 73% of our aggregate outstanding common units. Our common unitholder’s liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. We are organized under Delaware law and conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the states in which we do business. Our common unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if our common unitholders were a general partner if a court or government agency determined that: • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • our common unitholder’s right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitutes “control” of our business. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to the unitholder if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) treats us as a corporation or we become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on us being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to the common unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to a common unitholder, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the effect of that law. An IRS contest of the federal income tax positions we take may adversely affect the market for our common units, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of us. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with all of our conclusions or positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely affect the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by the unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The unitholder may be required to pay taxes on the unitholder’s share of our income even if the unitholder does not receive any cash distributions. Because the unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash distributed, common unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on the common unitholder’s share of taxable income even if the common unitholders receive no cash distributions from us. The common unitholder may not receive cash distributions from us equal to the unitholder’s share of taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If the common unitholder sells its common units, the unitholder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the common unitholder’s tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of the common unitholder’s allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the common unitholder’s tax basis in the common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units the unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the unitholder sells such units at a price greater than the tax basis, even if the price the unitholder receives is less than the original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes the share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if the common unitholder sells the units, the common unitholder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash the unitholder receives from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (IRAs), other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If the unitholder is a tax-exempt entity or a foreign person, the unitholder should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We will treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing U.S. Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to the common unitholder. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of our common units and could have a negative effect on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of the unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of the unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to the unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from the unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative effect on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of the partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated the partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of the taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. A common unitholder will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where the common unitholder does not live as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, a common unitholder will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if the common unitholder does not live in any of those jurisdictions. The common unitholder will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, the common unitholder may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We will initially own assets and do business in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. Each of these states, other than Texas and Florida, currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals. A majority of these states impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose an income tax. It is the common unitholder’s responsibility to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the foreign, state or local tax consequences of an investment in the common units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 