ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors and the discussion as set forth in Item 7 of this Form 10-K or incorporated by reference, and our subsequent periodic filings with the SEC, contain various "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face, as it is not possible to foresee all of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and speak only as of the date on which they are made. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently know to us or that we currently deem immaterial or that are not specific to us, such as general economic conditions, may also adversely affect our business and operations. We believe all material risk factors have been discussed below. Fluctuations in the Cost of Food Products Could Impact Operating Results Our primary food products are fresh chicken wings and ground beef. We work to counteract the effect of the volatility of chicken wing prices, which can adversely affect operating results. Our cost of sales could be significantly affected by increases in the cost of fresh chicken wings and ground beef, which can result from a number of factors, including but not limited to, seasonality, cost of grain, animal disease, increase in demand domestically and internationally, and other factors that may affect availability. We also depend on our franchisor, BWWI, as it relates to chicken wings, to negotiate prices and deliver product to us at a reasonable cost. Chicken wing prices averaged $1.21 per pound in 2011, $0.37 per pound lower than the average of $1.58 in 2010. Our franchisor, BWWI, currently purchases, and secures for its franchisors, chicken wings at market price. The market price for traditional wings reached its lowest price in several years during April 2011; since then, the market price has trended higher. 9 We May Suffer Negative Consequences if New Restaurants Don't Open in a Timely Manner If we are unable to successfully open new restaurants in a timely manner, our revenue growth rate and profits may be adversely affected. We must open restaurants in a timely and profitable manner to successfully expand our business. In the past we have experienced delays in restaurant openings and we may face similar delays in the future. These delays may trigger financial penalties by the franchisor as provided in our Area Development Agreement. These delays may not meet market expectations, which may negatively affect our stock price. Further, future restaurants may not meet operating results similar to those of existing locations. Our ability to expand successfully will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. A few of the factors are listed below: • Locating and securing quality locations in new and existing markets; • Negotiating acceptable leases or purchase agreements; • Securing acceptable financing for new locations; • Cost effective and timely planning, design, and build-out of restaurants; • Attracting, recruiting, training, and retaining qualified team members; • Hiring reputable and satisfactory construction contractors; • Competition in new and existing markets; • Obtaining and maintaining required local, state, and federal government approvals and permits related to construction of the sites and the sale of food and alcoholic beverages; • Creating brand awareness in new markets; and • General economic conditions. Our Inability to Renew Existing Leases on Favorable Terms May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations As of December 25, 2011, 26 of our 28 restaurants are located on leased premises and are subject to varying lease-specific arrangements. For example, some of the leases require base rent that is subject to certain market factors, and other leases include base rent with specified periodic increases. Some leases are subject to renewals which could involve substantial increases. Additionally, a few leases require contingent rent based on a percentage of gross sales. We do not currently have any restaurant leases that will expire during the next 12 months. Should we have any leases that expire in the future, we will evaluate the desirability of renewing such lease. While we currently expect to pursue all renewal options, no guarantee can be given that such lease will be renewed or, if renewed, that rents will not increase substantially. The success of our restaurants depends in large part on their leased locations. As demographic and economic patterns change, current leased locations may or may not continue to be attractive or profitable. Possible declines in trade areas where our restaurants are located or adverse economic conditions in surrounding areas could result in reduced revenues in those locations. In addition, desirable leased locations for new restaurant openings or for the relocation of existing restaurants may not be available at an acceptable cost when we identify a particular opportunity for a new restaurant or relocation. We May Not Be Able To Manage Our Growth Our Company's expansion strategy will depend upon our ability to open and operate additional restaurants profitably. The opening of new restaurants will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others, the availability of management, restaurant staff, and other personnel, the cost and availability of suitable restaurant locations, cost effective and timely planning, design and build-out of restaurants, acceptable leasing or financial terms, acceptable financing, and securing required governmental permits. Although we have formulated our business plans and expansion strategies based on certain assumptions, we anticipate that, as with most business ventures, we will be subject to changing conditions. Our assessments regarding timing and the opening of new restaurants, as well as a variety of other factors, may not prove to be correct and/or such new restaurants may not be profitable. Our Restaurants May Not Achieve Market Acceptance When expanding our BWW and Bagger Dave's concepts, we will enter new markets in which we may have limited operating experience. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve success and/or profitability in our new markets or in our new stores. The success of these new restaurants will be affected by the different competitive conditions, consumer tastes, and discretionary spending patterns of the new markets as well as our ability to generate market awareness of the BWW and Bagger Dave's brands. New restaurants typically require several months of operation before achieving normal profitability. When we enter highly competitive new markets or territories in which we have not yet established a market presence, the volatile effects on revenue and profit margins may be greater and more prolonged than anticipated. Competition in the Restaurant Industry May Affect Our Ability to Compete Effectively The restaurant industry is intensely competitive. We believe we compete primarily with regional and local sports bars, burger establishments, casual dining concepts, and quick-casual establishments. Many of our direct and indirect competitors are well-established national, regional, or local chains with a greater market presence than us. Further, some competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than us. In addition, independent owners of local or regional establishments may enter the wing-based or burger-based restaurant businesses without significant barriers to entry and such establishments may provide price competition for our restaurants. Competition in the casual dining, quick casual, and quick service segments of the restaurant industry is expected to remain intense with respect to price, service, location, concept, and the type and quality of food. We also face intense competition for real estate sites, qualified management personnel, and hourly restaurant staff. 10 New Restaurants Added to Our Existing Markets May Take Sales from Existing Restaurants New restaurants added to our existing markets, whether by us, other franchisees, or the franchisor, may take sales away from our restaurants. Because we intend to open restaurants in our existing markets, this may impact revenues earned by our existing restaurants. Acquisitions May Have Unanticipated Consequences That Could Harm Our Business and Our Financial Condition We may seek to selectively acquire existing restaurants. To do so, we would need to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable acquisition terms, and obtain appropriate financing. Any acquisition that we pursue, whether or not successfully completed, may involve risks, including: • material adverse effects on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the acquisition as the acquired restaurants are integrated into our operations; • risks associated with entering into markets or conducting operations where we have no or limited prior experience; and • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. Future acquisitions of existing restaurants, which may be accomplished through a cash purchase transaction, the issuance of our equity securities, or a combination of both, could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and impairment charges related to intangible assets, any of which could harm our business and financial condition. A Decline in Visitors to Any of the Business Districts Near the Locations of Our Restaurants Could Negatively Affect Our Restaurant Sales Some of our restaurants are located near high-activity areas such as retail centers, big box shopping centers, and entertainment centers. We depend on high visitor rates at these businesses to attract guests to our restaurants. If visitors to these centers decline due to economic conditions, closure of big-box retailers, road construction, changes in consumer preferences or shopping patterns, changes in discretionary consumer spending or otherwise, our restaurant sales could decline significantly and adversely affect our results of operations. Shortages or Interruptions in the Availability and Delivery of Food and Other Supplies May Increase Costs or Reduce Revenues Possible shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants caused by inclement weather, terrorist attacks, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, pandemics, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit in a tightened credit market, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements, or other conditions beyond our control could adversely affect the availability, quality, and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. Our inability to effectively manage supply chain risk could increase our costs and limit the availability of products critical to our restaurant operations. Unfavorable Publicity Could Harm Our Business Multi-unit restaurant businesses such as ours can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from complaints or litigation or general publicity regarding poor food quality, food-borne illness, personal injury, food tampering, adverse health effects of consumption of various food products or high-calorie foods (including obesity), or other concerns. Negative publicity from traditional media or on-line social network postings may also result from actual or alleged incidents or events taking place in our restaurants. Regardless of whether the allegations or complaints are valid, unfavorable publicity relating to a number of our restaurants, or only to a single restaurant, could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand. Adverse publicity and its effect on overall consumer perceptions of food safety, or our failure to respond effectively to adverse publicity, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to Establish, Maintain, and Control Our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting Could Harm Our Business and Financial Results Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A significant financial reporting failure or material weakness in internal control over financial reporting could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our stock. Economic Conditions Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Landlords or Other Tenants in Retail Centers in Which We Are Located Our landlords may be unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements, resulting in failures to pay required construction contributions or satisfy other lease covenants to us. In addition other tenants at retail centers in which we or our future franchisees are located or have executed leases may fail to open or may cease operations. If our landlords fail to satisfy required co-tenancies, such failures may result in us terminating leases or delaying openings in these locations. Also, decreases in total tenant occupancy in retail centers in which we are located may affect guest traffic at our restaurants. All of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our Success Depends Substantially on the Value of Our Brands and Our Reputation for Offering Guests an Exceptional Guest Experience We believe we have built a strong reputation for the quality and breadth of our menu items as part of the total experience that guests enjoy in our restaurants. We believe we must protect and grow the value of our brands to continue to be successful in the future. Any incident that erodes consumer trust in or affinity for our brands could significantly reduce its value. If consumers perceive or experience a reduction in food quality, service, ambiance, or in any way believes we failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, the value of our brands could suffer. 11 We May Not Be Able To Attract and Retain Qualified Team Members to Operate and Manage Our Restaurants The success of our restaurants depends on our ability to attract, motivate, develop, and retain a sufficient number of qualified restaurant employees, including managers and hourly team members. The inability to recruit, develop, and retain these individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in high employee turnover in existing restaurants, thus increasing the cost to efficiently operate our restaurants. This could inhibit our expansion strategy and business performance and negatively impact our operating results. The Loss of Key Executives or Difficulties Recruiting and Retaining Qualified Team Members Could Affect Our Performance Our success depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of key executives and other employees and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. We must continue to recruit, retain, and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. The loss of any of our executive officers could jeopardize our ability to meet our financial targets. In particular, we are presently dependent upon the services of T. Michael Ansley, David G. Burke, and Jason T. Curtis. We do not have employment agreements with any of our employees. Our inability to retain the full-time services of any of these people or to attract other qualified individuals could have an adverse effect on us, and there would likely be a difficult transition period in finding replacements for any of them. Legal Actions Could Have an Adverse Affect on Us We could face legal action from our franchisor, government agencies, employees, customers, or other parties. Many state and federal laws govern our industry and if we fail to comply with these laws, we could be liable for damages or penalties. Further, we may face litigation from customers alleging that we were responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants, or that we have problems with food quality or operations. We may also face litigation resulting from employer-employee relations, including age discrimination, sexual harassment, gender discrimination, or local, state and federal labor law violations, as an example. Expensive litigation may adversely affect both our revenue and profits. We May Not Be Able to Obtain and Maintain Licenses and Permits Necessary to Operate Our Restaurants The restaurant industry is subject to various federal, state, and local government regulations, including those relating to the sale of food and alcoholic beverages. The failure to obtain and maintain these licenses, permits and approvals, including food and liquor licenses, could adversely affect our operating results. Difficulties or failure to obtain the required licenses and approvals could delay or result in our decision to cancel the opening of new restaurants. Local authorities may revoke, suspend, or deny renewal of our food and liquor licenses if they determine that our conduct violates applicable regulations. The Sale of Alcoholic Beverages at Our Restaurants Subjects Us to Additional Regulations and Potential Liability Because our restaurants sell alcoholic beverages, we are required to comply with the alcohol licensing requirements of the federal government, states, and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require applications to state authorities and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises and to provide service for extended hours and on Sundays. Typically, the licenses are renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of the restaurants, including minimum age of guests and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. If we fail to comply with federal, state, or local regulations, our licenses may be revoked and we may be forced to terminate the sale of alcoholic beverages at one or more of our restaurants. In certain states we are subject to "dram shop" statutes, which generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Some dram shop litigation against restaurant companies has resulted in significant judgments, including punitive damages. Our Operating Results May Fluctuate Due to the Timing of Special Events and Other Factors Our operating results depend, in part, on special events, such as the Super Bowl® and other sporting events viewed by our guests in our restaurants such as those sponsored by the National Football League, Major League Baseball, National Basketball Association, National Hockey League, and National Collegiate Athletic Association. Interruptions in the viewing of these professional sporting league events due to strikes, lockouts, or labor disputes may impact our results. Additionally, our results are subject to fluctuations based on the dates of sporting events and their availability for viewing through broadcast, satellite, and cable networks. Historically, sales in most of our restaurants have been higher during fall and winter months based on the relative popularity and extent of national, regional, and local sporting and other events. We May Not Be Able to Protect Our Trademarks, Service Marks, and Trade Secrets We place considerable value on our trademarks, service marks, and trade secrets. We intend to actively enforce and defend our intellectual property, although we may not always be successful. We attempt to protect our recipes as trade secrets by, among other things, requiring confidentiality agreements with our suppliers and executive officers. However, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully enforce our rights under our marks or prevent competitors from misappropriating our recipes. We also cannot be sure that our marks are valuable; using our marks does not, or will not, violate others' marks; the registrations of our marks would be upheld if challenged; or we would not be prevented from using our marks in areas of the country where others might have already established rights to them. Any of these uncertainties could have an adverse effect on us and our expansion strategy. There Can Be No Assurance That An Active Trading Market for Shares of Our Common Stock Will Develop There is a minimal, relatively inactive public market for our common stock. We cannot be certain that a more active public market for our common stock will develop, or if developed, the extent to which investor interest in our company will sustain an active trading or how liquid such a market might be in the future. Our Common Stock will likely be thinly traded compared to larger more widely known companies. It is possible that an active trading market, if established, will not continue and there can be no assurance as to the price at which our common stock will trade. We are not subject of any research analyst coverage. The absence of research analyst coverage can adversely affect the market value and liquidity of an equity security. 12 Our Current Principal Stockholder Owns a Large Percentage of Our Voting Stock, Which Allows Him to Control Substantially All Matters Requiring Stockholder Approval T. Michael Ansley, our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Directors, owns approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he may have significant influence over a decision to enter into any corporate transaction and has the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders, regardless of whether or not our other stockholders believe that such transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control or other business combination, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. Since We Do Not Expect to Pay Any Dividends for the Foreseeable Future, Holders of Our Common Stock May Be Forced to Sell Their Stock in Order to Obtain a Return on Their Investment We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to reinvest any earnings to finance our restaurant operations and growth plans. Accordingly, stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. As a result, investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Adverse Effect of Undesignated Stock Our authorized capital includes 10,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue any or all of the shares of preferred stock, including the authority to establish one or more series, and to fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, without seeking stockholder approval. Possible Issuance of Additional Shares without Stockholder Approval Could Dilute Stockholders As of December 25, 2011, we have an aggregate of 18,936,400 shares of common stock outstanding and 81,063,600 shares of common stock authorized but unissued. The Company also has 10,000,000 shares of authorized but unissued preferred stock. Our directors have a total of 354,000 options to purchase shares of common stock at $2.50 per share. Of these options, 214,000 are fully vested, 70,000 will vest in July 2012, and 70,000 will vest in July 2013. Additionally, on July 18, 2011, the Company awarded 60,800 shares of restricted stock to employees under the Company's Stock Incentive Plan during 2011. Although there are currently no other material plans, agreements, commitments, or undertakings with respect to the issuance of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into any such shares, if any shares are issued in the future, they would further dilute the percentage ownership of our common stock held by our stockholders. Penny Stock Regulations Could Inhibit the Trading Of Our Stock in the Secondary Market The SEC has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks". Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is furnished by the exchange or system). Prior to a transaction in a penny stock, a broker-dealer is required to: • deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market; • provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock; • explain the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction; • provide monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account; and • make a special written acknowledgment that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. If our share price drops below $5.00, our shares could be subject to the penny stock rules. As such, investors might find it more difficult to sell their shares. Actions by the Franchisor Could Negatively Affect Our Business and Operating Results Our BWW restaurant operations depend, in part, on decisions made by our franchisor. Business decisions made by our franchisor could adversely impact our operating performance and profitability. If our image and reputation is compromised, we may suffer materially which, in turn, may negatively affect our operating performance. Changes in Consumer Preferences or Discretionary Consumer Spending Could Harm our Performance Our success depends, in part, upon the continued popularity of our chicken and boneless wings, hamburgers and turkey burgers, other food and beverage items, and appeal of our restaurant concepts. We also depend on trends toward consumers eating away from home. Shifts in these consumer preferences could negatively affect our future profitability. Such shifts could be based on health concerns related to the cholesterol, carbohydrate, fat, calorie, or salt content of certain food items, including items featured on our menu. Negative publicity over the health aspects of such food items may adversely affect consumer demand for our menu items and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants, which could materially harm our business. In addition, our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income, and consumer confidence. A decline in consumer spending or in economic conditions could reduce guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow. 13 We Are Susceptible To Adverse Trends and Economic Conditions in Michigan and Florida The Michigan economy is largely tied to the automotive industry. This geographic area is susceptible to strikes, industry lay-offs, and general economic contraction, which could negatively affect customer counts and consumer discretionary spending which, in turn, would adversely impact our revenue and profits. The Florida economy is heavily tied to tourism and the real estate market. A continued decline in both may have a negative impact on our individual customer base, whether through loss of value or lack of new jobs, and may result in decreased sales at our Florida locations. Our Ability to Raise Capital In The Future May Be Limited, Which Could Adversely Impact Our Business Changes in our restaurant operations, lower than anticipated restaurant sales, increased food or labor costs, increased property expenses, acceleration of our expansion plans, or other events, including those described in this report, may cause us to seek additional debt or equity financing on an accelerated basis. Financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, and our failure to raise capital when needed could negatively impact our restaurant growth plans as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock. Debt financing may involve significant cash payment obligations, covenants, and financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate and grow our business. Risks of Financial Covenant Violations There can be no assurances that in the future the Company will be in compliance with all covenants of its current or future debt agreements or that its lenders would waive any violations of such covenants. Non-compliance with debt covenants by the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our Current Insurance May Not Provide Adequate Levels of Coverage Against Claims We currently maintain insurance that is customary and required in our franchise agreements and leases. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure against, such as losses due to natural disasters. Such damages could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. An Impairment in the Carrying Value of Our Fixed Assets and / or Intangible Assets Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Consolidated Results of Operations We evaluate the useful lives of our fixed assets and intangible assets to determine if they are definite- or indefinite-lived. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required maintenance expenditures, and the expected lives of other related groups of assets. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of intangible assets become impaired, there could be an adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. If We Are Unable To Maintain Our Rights to Use Key Technologies of Third Parties, Our Business May Be Harmed We rely on certain technology licensed from third parties, and may be required to license additional technology in the future, for use in managing our Internet sites and providing related services to users. These third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable commercial terms or at all. The inability to enter into and maintain any of these technology licenses could significantly harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. We May Incur Costs Resulting From Security Risks We Face in Connection With Our Electronic Processing and Transmission of Confidential Customer Information We accept electronic payment cards from our guests for payment in our restaurants. During 2011, approximately 66% of our sales were attributable to credit/debit card transactions, and credit/debit card usage could continue to increase. A number of restaurant operators and retailers have experienced actual or potential security breaches in which credit and debit card information may have been stolen. While we have taken reasonable steps to prevent the occurrence of security breaches in this respect, we may, in the future, become subject to claims for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of credit or debit card information, and we may also be subject to lawsuits or other proceedings in the future relating to these types of incidents. Proceedings related to theft of credit/debit card information may be brought by payment card providers, banks, and credit unions that issue cards, cardholders (either individually or as part of a class action lawsuit), and federal and state regulators. Any such proceedings could distract our management from running our business and cause us to incur significant unplanned losses and expenses. We also receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and team members. The use of this information by us is regulated at the federal and state levels. If our security and information systems are compromised or our team members fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as results of operations, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, our ability to accept credit cards as payment in our restaurants and on-line store depends on us remaining in compliance with standards set by the PCI Security Standards Council. These standards, set by a consortium of the major credit card companies, require certain levels of system security and procedures to protect our customers' credit card and other personal information. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change over time, and compliance with those changes may result in cost increases due to necessary systems and process changes. Changes in Public Health Concerns May Impact Our Performance Changes in public health concerns may affect consumer preferences for our products. For example, if incidents of the avian flu occur in the United States, consumer preferences for poultry or beef products may be negatively impacted, resulting in a decline in demand for our products. Similarly, public health concerns regarding food ingredients, fat, and calories have resulted in governmental regulations that may adversely affect our operations to the extent that such regulations are imposed in specific locations, rather than nationally or state wide, or that exceptions to the regulations are given to bars or other restaurant establishments, giving patrons the ability to choose nearby locations that are not subject to the same regulations. Further, growing movements to change laws relating to alcohol may result in a decline in alcohol consumption at our restaurants or increase the number of dram shop claims made against us, either of which may negatively impact operations or result in the loss of liquor licenses. We are carefully monitoring new laws regulating the preparation and sale of food items and alcohol. 14 Unpredictable Catastrophic Events Could Have a Material Adverse Effect The occurrence of catastrophic events such as hurricanes, tropical storms, earthquakes, pandemic disease, windstorms, floods, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms, and blizzards), fires, and other catastrophes could adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Unpredictable natural and other disasters could have an adverse effect on the Company in that such events could materially disrupt its operations or the ability or willingness of its customers to visit the Company's restaurants. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. Although the Company carries insurance to mitigate its exposure to certain catastrophic events, catastrophic events could nevertheless reduce the Company's earnings and cause volatility in its financial results for any quarter or year and have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Future property insurance deductibles and premiums may also negatively impact our financial performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 