ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of factors that might cause our actual results to differ significantly from the results reflected by the forward-looking statements contained herein. In addition to factors generally affecting the political, economic and competitive conditions in the United States and abroad, such factors include those set forth below. Investors should consider the following factors before investing in our Company. The current economic conditions and uncertain future outlook, including the credit and liquidity crisis in the financial markets and the continued deterioration in consumer confidence and spending, may continue to negatively impact our business and results of operations. As widely reported, since the latter part of 2008 financial and credit markets in the United States and globally have experienced significant volatility and disruption, which has resulted in, among other things, diminished liquidity and credit availability and a widespread reduction in business activity and consumer spending and confidence. Since 2008, these economic conditions have negatively impacted our business and our results of operations and continue to do so. Any continuation or deterioration in the current economic conditions, or any prolonged global, national or regional recession, may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. The current adverse market conditions, including the tightening of credit in financial markets, negatively impacts the discretionary spending of our consumers and may result in a decrease in sales or demand for our products. Similarly, these conditions may negatively impact the financial and operating condition of our wholesale customer base, or their ability to obtain credit, either of which in turn could cause them to reduce or delay their purchases of our products and increase our exposure to losses from bad debts. These conditions could also increase the likelihood that one or more of our wholesale customers may file for bankruptcy or similar protection from creditors, which also may result in a loss of sales and increase our exposure to bad debt. div> From a financing perspective, we believe that we currently have sufficient liquidity to support the ongoing activities of our business, service our existing debt and invest in future growth opportunities. While the existing conditions have therefore not currently impacted our ability to finance our operations, the continuation or further tightening of the credit markets may adversely affect our ability to access the credit market and to obtain any additional financing or refinancing on satisfactory terms or at all. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the ongoing economic downturn in the United States and the economies of other countries, nor are we able to predict the long-term impact of these conditions on our operations. Many aspects of our manufacturing and distribution facilities are customized for our business; as a result, the loss of one of these facilities would materially disrupt our operations. Approximately 75% of our gross sales for the fifty-two weeks ended January 1, 2011 were generated by products we manufactured at our manufacturing facility in Whately, Massachusetts and we rely primarily on our distribution facilities in South Deerfield, Massachusetts to distribute our products. Because most of our machinery is designed or customized by us to manufacture our products, and because we have strict quality control standards for our products, the loss of our manufacturing facility, due to natural disaster or otherwise, would materially affect our operations. Similarly, our distribution facilities rely upon customized machinery, systems and operations, the loss of which would materially affect our operations. Although our manufacturing and distribution facilities are adequately insured, if our facilities were destroyed we belie ve it would take up to twelve months to resume operations at a level equivalent to current operations. It will be difficult to maintain our historical growth rates. If we fail to grow our business as planned, our future operating results may suffer. We intend to continue to pursue a long-term business strategy of increasing sales and earnings by expanding our retail and wholesale operations both in the United States and internationally. However, our ability to grow these operations in the short-term may be negatively impacted by the current economic conditions. Our ability to implement our long-term growth strategy successfully will also be dependent in part on several factors beyond our control, including economic conditions, consumer preferences, and the competitive environment in the markets in which we compete, and we may not be able to achieve our planned growth or sustain our financial performance. Our ability to anticipate changes in the candle, home fragrance and giftware industries, and identify industry trends, will be critical factors in our ability to remain competitive.< /font> We expect that it will become more difficult to maintain our historical growth rate, which could negatively impact our operating margins and results of operations. New stores typically generate lower operating margin contributions than mature stores because (i) fixed costs, as a percentage of sales, are higher and (ii) pre-opening costs are fully expensed in the year of opening. In addition, our retail sales generate lower segment margins than our wholesale sales. Over the past several years, our wholesale business has grown by increasing sales to existing customers and by adding new customers. If we are not able to continue this, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, as we expand our wholesale business into new channels of trade that we believe to be appropriate, sales in some of these new channels may, fo r competitive reasons within the channels, generate lower margins than do our existing wholesale sales. Similarly, as we continue to broaden our product offerings in order to meet consumer demand, we may do so in part by adding products that have lower product margins than those of our core candle products. 8 Table of Contents Further increases in wax prices above the rate of inflation may negatively impact our cost of goods sold and margins. Any shortages in refined oil supplies could impact our wax supply. In the past several years significant increases in the price of crude oil have adversely impacted our transportation and freight costs and have contributed to significant increases in the cost of various raw materials, including wax, which is a petroleum-based product. These price increases continued in 2010. This in turn negatively impacts our cost of goods sold and margins. In addition, we believe that rising oil prices and corresponding increases in raw materials and transportation costs negatively impact not only our business but consumer sentiment and the economy at large. Continued weakness in consumer confidence and the macro-economic environment could negatively impact our sales and earnings. Future increases in wax prices could have an adverse affect on our cost of goods sold and could lower our margins. In addition to the impact of increased wax prices, any shortages in refined oil supplies may impact our wax supply. The closing or disruption of oil refineries could significantly limit our ability to source wax and negatively impact our operations. While we experienced no supply issues in 2010, any future prolonged interruption or reduction in wax supplies could negatively impact our operations, sales and earnings. We face significant competition in the giftware industry. This competition could cause our revenues or margins to fall short of expectations which could adversely affect our future operating results, financial condition, liquidity and our ability to continue to grow our business. We compete generally for the disposable income of consumers with other producers and retailers in the giftware industry. The giftware industry is highly competitive with a large number of both large and small participants and relatively low barriers to entry. Our products compete with other scented and unscented candle, home fragrance and personal care products and with other gifts within a comparable price range, like boxes of candy, flowers, wine, fine soap and related merchandise. Our retail stores compete primarily with specialty candle retailers and a variety of other retailers including department stores, gift stores and national specialty retailers that carry candles along with personal care items, giftware and houseware. In addition, while we focus primarily on the premium scented candle segment, scented and unscented candles are also sold outside of that segment by a variety of retailers, including mass merchandisers. In our wholesale business, we compete with numerous manufacturers and importers of candles, home fragrance products and other home decor and gift items for the limited s pace available in our wholesale customer locations for the display and sale of such products to consumers. Some of our competitors are part of large, diversified companies which have greater financial resources and a wider range of product offerings than we do. Many of our competitors source their products from low cost manufacturers outside of the United States. This competitive environment could adversely affect our future revenues and profits, financial condition and liquidity and our ability to continue to grow our business. A material decline in consumers’ discretionary income could cause our sales and income to decline. Our results depend on consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Accordingly, we may experience declines in sales during periods of significant economic volatility and disruption such as the one we are currently experiencing, or during other economic downturns or periods of uncertainty like that which followed the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States or which result from the threat of war or the possibility of further terrorist attacks. Any material decline in the amount of discretionary spending could have a material adverse effect on our sales and income. Current environmental laws and regulations, or those enacted in the future, could result in additional liabilities and costs. The manufacturing of our products may require the use of materials that are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. For example, various federal and state agencies regulate the petroleum used to produce our wax products and certain ingredients contained in our fragrance oils. Compliance with these laws and regulations could increase our costs and impact the availability of components required to manufacture our products. Violation of these laws and regulations may subject us to significant fines, penalties or disposal costs, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We may be unable to continue to open new stores successfully or renew leases for existing locations. Our retail strategy depends in large part on our ability to successfully open new stores in both existing and new geographic markets. For our strategy to be successful, we must identify and lease favorable store sites on favorable economic terms, hire and train managers and associates and adapt management and operational systems to meet the needs of our expanded operations. These tasks may be difficult to accomplish successfully and any changes in the availability of suitable real estate locations on acceptable terms could adversely impact our retail growth. If we are unable to open new stores as quickly as planned or at all, then our future sales and profits could be materially adversely affected. Even if we succeed in opening new stores, these new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores. Also, our r etail strategy includes opening new stores in markets where we already have a presence so we can take advantage of economies of scale in marketing, distribution and supervision costs, or the opening of new malls or lifestyle centers in the market. However, these new stores may result in the loss of sales in existing stores in nearby areas, thereby negatively impacting our comparable store sales. A decrease in our retail comparable store sales will have an adverse impact on our cash flows and earnings. This is due to the fact that a significant portion of our expenses are comprised of fixed costs, such as lease payments, and our ability to decrease expenses in response to negative comparable store sales is limited in the short term. Our retail strategy also depends upon our ability to successfully renew the expiring leases of our profitable existing stores. If we are unable to do so at planned levels and upon favorable economic terms, then our future sales and profits could be negatively affected. The loss or significant deterioration in the financial condition of a significant wholesale customer, or a bankruptcy filing and subsequent bankruptcy proceedings by such a customer, could negatively impact our sales and operating results. The loss or significant deterioration in the financial condition of one of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability and cash flow to the extent that we are unable to offset any revenue losses with additional revenue from existing customers or by opening new accounts. We continually monitor and evaluate the credit status of our customers and attempt to adjust trade and credit terms as appropriate. Given the current economic environment, there is an increased risk that wholesale customers could be forced to cease or significantly reduce their purchases from us. The loss of one or more significant wholesale customers, or a significant reduction in their operations, could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in the event that one of o ur significant wholesale customers files for bankruptcy protection, there are various potential claims that may arise in connection therewith that, if filed and adversely decided, could potentially negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents The failure or delay of a third party to supply goods to our customers could adversely impact our business. For certain of our operations, we rely on third-party vendors to supply goods to our customers. The failure of such vendors to deliver our goods in a timely or appropriate manner could adversely impact our customer relationships, which would adversely impact our business. For example, we currently utilize a third party fulfillment provider for the Fundraising business and the Consumer Direct business. This party recently experienced difficulty in timely delivering goods to our Fundraising business and Consumer Direct business customers. Delays such as these or other problems encountered by our third-party vendors could have an adverse effect on our business, including our reputation and ability to grow our operations as planned. Sustained interruptions in the supply of products from overseas may affect our operating results. We source various accessories and other products from Asia. A sustained interruption of the operations of our suppliers, as a result of economic difficulties, the impact of global shipping capacity constraints, the impact of health epidemics, natural disasters or other factors, could have an adverse effect on our ability to receive timely shipments of certain of our products, which might in turn negatively impact our sales and operating results. Counterparties to the Credit Facility and interest rate swaps may not be able to fulfill their obligations due to disruptions in the global financial and credit markets. As a result of concerns about the stability of the financial and credit markets and the strength of counterparties during this challenging global macroeconomic environment, many financial institutions have reduced, and in some instances ceased to provide, funding to borrowers. Based upon information available to us, we have no indication that financial institutions syndicated under Yankee Candle’s Revolving Facility would be unable to fulfill their commitments to us. However, if certain counterparties were to become unable to fulfill those obligations, it may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the variability of interest payments associated with the Term Loan Facility. We may be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on these instruments. Continued turbulence in the global credit markets and the U.S. economy may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Because we are not a diversified company and are primarily dependent upon one industry, we have less flexibility in reacting to unfavorable consumer trends, adverse economic conditions or business cycles. We rely primarily on the sale of premium scented candles and related products in the giftware industry. In the event that sales of these products decline or do not meet our expectations, we cannot rely on the sales of other products to offset such a shortfall. As a significant portion of our expenses is comprised of fixed costs, such as lease payments, our ability to decrease expenses in response to adverse business conditions is limited in the short term. As a result, unfavorable consumer trends, adverse economic conditions or changes in the business cycle could have a material and adverse impact on our earnings. If we lose our senior executive officers, or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our business could be disrupted and our financial performance could suffer. Our success is in part dependent upon the retention of our senior executive officers. If our senior executive officers become unable or unwilling to participate in our business, our future business and financial performance could be materially affected. In addition, as our business grows in size and complexity we must be able to continue to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel sufficient to allow us to adequately manage and grow our business. If we are unable to do so, our operating results could be negatively impacted. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain personnel as and when necessary in the future. In the past we have been required to recognize a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges against goodwill or intangible assets in the future. At January 1, 2011, the net carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets totaled approximately $643.6 million and $281.8 million, respectively. Our amortizing intangible assets are subject to impairment testing in accordance with the Property Plant and Equipment Topic of the Accounting Standards Codification (the “ASC”), and our non-amortizing goodwill and trade names are subject to impairment tests in accordance with the Intangibles, Goodwill and Other Topic of the ASC. We review the carrying value of our intangible assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable, at least annually for our goodwill and trade names. Significant negative industry or economic trends, including disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or plann ed changes in the use of our intangible assets, and mergers and acquisitions could result in an impairment charge for any of our intangible assets, goodwill or other long-lived assets. In the impairment analyses we used certain estimates and assumptions, including a combination of market-based and income-based approaches, each of which were weighted at 50% for the impairment test performed as of November 6, 2010. The market-based approach estimates fair value by applying multiples of potential earnings, such as EBITDA and revenue, of publicly traded comparable companies. We believe this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value using multiples from companies with operations and economic characteristics similar to our reporting units. The income-based approach is based on projected future debt-free cash flow that is discounted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk of the future cash flows. We believe this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upo n the reporting units expected long-term operations and cash flow performance. The income-based approach is based on future projections of operating results and cash flows. These projections are discounted to present value using a weighted average cost of capital for market participants, who are generally thought to be industry participants. The future projections are based on both past performance and the projections and assumptions used in our current operating plan. Such assumptions are subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions and could result in additional impairment charges. Further, if the economic market conditions were to worsen and our estimated future discounted cash flows decrease further we may incur additional impairment charges. Additional impairment charges related to our goodwill, tradenames or other intangible assets could have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Our international operations subject us to a number of risks, including unfavorable regulatory, labor, tax and political conditions in foreign countries. Sales from our international operations were $76.9 million for the fifty-two weeks ended January 1, 2011, and were primarily generated in Europe. As a result, we are subject to the legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions other than the United States. Risks inherent to maintaining international operations, include, but are not limited to, the following: • withholding taxes or other taxes on our foreign income, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls imposed by or in other countries; • the inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights in other jurisdictions, at a reasonable cost or at all; • difficulty with staffing and managing widespread operations; • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make our product offering less competitive in some countries; and • our establishing ourselves and becoming tax resident in foreign jurisdictions. Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success in these international markets depends, in part, on our ability to succeed under differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop, implement and maintain policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. As a result of any of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Seasonal, quarterly and other fluctuations in our business, and general industry and market conditions, could affect the market for our results of operations. Our sales and operating results vary from quarter to quarter. We have historically realized higher sales and operating income in our fourth quarter, particularly in our retail business, which accounts for a larger portion of our sales. We believe that this has been due primarily to an increase in giftware industry sales during the holiday season of the fourth quarter. In addition, in anticipation of increased holiday sales activity, we incur certain significant incremental expenses, including the hiring of a substantial number of temporary employees to supplement our existing workforce. As a result of this seasonality, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. In addition, we may also experienc e quarterly fluctuations in our sales and income depending on various factors, including, among other things, the number of new retail stores we open in a particular quarter, changes in the ordering patterns of our wholesale customers during a particular quarter, pricing and promotional activities of our competitors, and the mix of products sold. Most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense, advertising and promotional expense and employee wages and salaries, do not vary directly with sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales for a particular quarter are below our expectations, we might not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore a sales shortfall could have a disproportionate effect on our operating results for that quarter. Further, our comparable store sales from our retail business in a particular quarter could be adversely affected by competition, the opening nearby of new retail stores or wholesale locations, economic or other general conditions or our inability to execute a particular business strategy. As a result of these factors, we may report in the future sales, operating results or comparable store sales that do not match the expectations of analysts and investors. This could cause the price of the notes to decline. Other factors may also cause our actual results to differ materially from our estimates and projections. In addition to the foregoing, there are other factors which may cause our actual results to differ materially from our estimates and projections. Such factors include the following: • changes in the general economic conditions in the United States including, but not limited to, consumer debt levels, financial market performance, interest rates, consumer sentiment, inflation, commodity prices, unemployment and other factors that impact consumer confidence and spending; • changes in levels of competition from our current competitors and potential new competition from both retail stores and alternative methods or channels of distribution; • loss of a significant vendor or prolonged disruption of product supply; • the successful introduction of new products and technologies in our product categories, including the frequency of such introductions, the level of consumer acceptance of new products and technologies, and their impact on demand for existing products and technologies; • the impact of changes in pricing and profit margins associated with our sourced products or raw materials; • changes in income tax laws or regulations, or in interpretations of existing income tax laws or regulations; • adverse outcomes from significant litigation matters; • changes in the interpretation or enforcement of laws and regulations regarding our business or the sale of our products, or the ingredients contained in our products; or the imposition of new or additional restrictions or regulations regarding the same; • changes in our ability to attract, retain and develop highly-qualified employees or changes in the cost or availability of a sufficient labor force to manage and support our operations; • changes in our ability to meet objectives with regard to business acquisitions or new business ventures; • the occurrence of severe weather events prohibiting or discouraging consumers from traveling to retail or wholesale locations; 11 Table of Contents • the disruption of global, national or regional transportation systems; • the occurrence of certain material events including natural disasters, acts of terrorism, the outbreak of war or other significant national or international events; • an outbreak of certain public health issues, including contagious diseases; • our ability to react in a timely manner and maintain our critical business processes and information systems capabilities in a disaster recovery situation; and • changes in our ability to manage our existing computer systems and technology infrastructures, and our ability to implement successfully new computer systems and technology infrastructures. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 