Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for our business as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and an investor in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business Generally Oversupply of polysilicon, solar panels and sapphire material, including LED quality material, may have an adverse impact on our business and, unless such oversupplies are reduced in the near future due to expansion in demand, development of new technologies or otherwise, the negative impact on our business could last for an extended period. We principally sell equipment that is utilized in the manufacture of polysilicon (which is a key component to making solar cells), silicon ingots (which are, through various cutting and finishing processes, used to make solar cells) and sapphire boules (which are, through various cutting and finishing processes, used to make, among other things, LED wafers). Each of the polysilicon, solar cell and LED wafer market is currently experiencing significant oversupply. The consequence of this oversupply is that those who sell into these markets (many of whom are customers for our equipment) are either required to sell at very low prices (sometimes selling at a loss) or are unable to sell at all. As a consequence of these conditions, demand for our equipment, particularly our polysilicon reactors and DSS furnaces, has dropped significantly in the past six months. In addition, certain customers have requested that we delay delivery of equipment that is to be delivered under existing contracts (and we expect that we may receive similar requests in the future). This has had an adverse impact on our business and will continue to have such an effect, including requiring that we sell products at prices below what we usually charge or resulting in the absence of any meaningful new sales. If the existing inventories of polysilicon, solar cells and LED/sapphire materials are not reduced in the near future, as a result of increased demand, new solar or sapphire technologies that increase demand for end-products incorporating polysilicon, solar cells or sapphire material or due to other reasons, we expect that our business and results of operations will be significantly and materially impacted. General economic conditions may have an adverse impact on demand for our products. Purchasing our products requires significant capital expenditures, and demand for such products is affected by general economic conditions. A downturn in the global construction market has reduced 22 Table of Contents demand for solar panels in new residential and commercial buildings, which in turn reduces demand for our products that are used in the manufacture of PV wafers, cells and modules and polysilicon for the solar power industry (including our DSS units and CVD reactors). In addition, a downturn in the sapphire material market, and the sapphire-based LED and general illumination markets in particular, has resulted in reduced demand for our sapphire material and our ASF systems. Uncertainties about economic conditions, negative financial news, potential defaults by or rating downgrades of debt issued by governmental entities and corporate entities, tighter credit markets and declines in asset values have, in the recent past, caused our customers to postpone or cancel making purchases of capital equipment and materials. We believe that increasing governmental budgetary pressures will likely result in reduced, or the elimination of, government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications. A prolonged downturn in the global economy, combined with decreased governmental incentives for solar power usage, would have a material adverse effect on our business in a number of ways, including decreased demand for our products, which would result in lower sales, reduced backlog and contract terminations. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it challenging for us to: forecast demand for our products and our operating results, make business decisions and identify the risks that may affect our business. For example, our inventory balances have increased substantially recently and, if such inventory is unable to be deployed in our products sold to customers and becomes obsolete, we could be required to take a write down and the amount of such write down may be material. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Current or future credit and financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations in several ways. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia experienced extreme disruption in recent years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, tightened liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others and increased bankruptcy filings by companies in a number of industries (including the solar industry). These economic developments adversely affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. The tightening of credit in financial markets has resulted in reduced funding worldwide, including China (where many of our customers are located), and a higher level of uncertainty for solar module manufacturers and manufacturers incorporating sapphire material into their products. As a result, some of our customers have been delayed in securing, or prevented from securing, funding adequate to honor their existing contracts with us or to enter into new contracts to purchase our products. We believe a reduction in the availability of funding for new manufacturing facilities and facility expansions in the solar and sapphire industries, or reduction in demand for solar equipment panels or sapphire material, could cause a decrease in orders for certain of our products. We currently require most of our equipment customers to prepay a portion of the purchase price of their orders. We use these customer deposits to prepay our suppliers to reduce the need to borrow to cover our cash needs for working capital. This practice may not be sustainable if the recent market disruptions continue or grow worse. Some of our customers who have become financially distressed have failed to provide letters of credit or make payments in accordance with the terms of their existing contracts. If customers fail to post letters of credit or make payments, and we do not agree to revised contract terms, it could have a significant impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The impact of these disruptions are increasingly being felt in China, and by certain of our customers which are located in China, and accounts in part for the decline in the rate of increase of our total revenue and order backlog (as compared to the quarter ended December 31, 2011) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. 23 Table of Contents We may experience further revenue rate and backlog reductions in the future similar to or greater than those reductions we experienced in fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. Credit and financial market conditions may similarly affect our suppliers. We may lose advances we make to our suppliers in the event they become insolvent because our advances are not secured or backed by letters of credit. The inability of our suppliers to obtain credit to finance development or manufacture our products could result in delivery delays or prevent us from delivering our products to our customers. Trade tensions with China have recently increased markedly and any further retaliatory actions by either side could harm our business and our stock price. Recently, trade tensions between China and the U.S. have escalated. On May 17, 2012, the U.S. Department of Commerce announced its preliminary determination that China had violated fair trade policies by "dumping" into the U.S. certain solar products at prices that were intended to advantage Chinese manufacturers. In connection with this ruling, certain Chinese solar cell and wafer manufacturers (including some of our equipment customers) had preliminary duties levied against them of approximately 31%. The Chinese government responded by saying the preliminary determination was deliberately provoking trade friction between the two nations. This follows a March 2012 action by the United States to impose preliminary punitive duties, in the single digits, on solar panels imported from China. The Department of Commerce is expected to issue final rulings on these matters later in the year. In addition, Congress has considered legislation targeting China's currency practices, which would, among other things, impose trade sanctions against Chinese companies that ship finished goods into the U.S. at artificially low prices caused by Chinese currency manipulation. The Chinese government has indicated that passage of this legislation or similar actions could lead to retaliatory tariffs. Retaliatory tariffs and trade tensions with China would have a material adverse impact on our business since we sell into China and our equipment customers sell end products into the U.S. In addition, if the U.S. government were to issue final determinations consistent with the preliminary determinations in 2012 or impose other duties on solar products from China, it would have a direct and negative effect on several of our PV customers who purchase our PV equipment and polysilicon equipment. Our business and results of operations would be negatively affected if anti-dumping or other duties were imposed or a trade war was to occur with China. In addition, we expect that any further announcements about imposition of duties by the U.S. government on solar cells imported from China could negatively impact our stock price and may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If our customers delay or cancel equipment purchases, we may be required to modify or cancel contractual arrangements with our suppliers which may result in the loss of deposits or pre-paid advances, which losses have been significant in the past. As a result of our customer delays or contract terminations, we reschedule or cancel, from time to time, purchase orders with our vendors to procure materials and, in certain cases, we are required to reimburse the vendor for costs incurred to the date of termination plus predetermined profits. In addition, certain of the vendors from whom we purchased materials were unable to deliver the ordered components because economic conditions had an adverse impact on their ability to operate their businesses and we were unable to recover advances paid to those vendors for components that were not delivered. We have, in prior fiscal years, recorded significant losses resulting from rescheduled and/or canceled commitments to our vendors as a result of customer delays, contract modifications and terminations relating to expected forfeitures of vendor advances and reserves against advances on inventory purchases with vendors that had become financially distressed. In cases where we are not able to cancel or modify vendor purchase orders due to customer delays or terminations, our purchase commitments may exceed our order backlog requirements and we may be unable to redeploy the undelivered equipment. In addition, we expect that we may be required to pay advances to vendors in 24 Table of Contents the future without being able to recover that advance if the vendor is placed in bankruptcy, becomes insolvent or otherwise experiences financial distress. Delays in deliveries, or cancellations of orders, for products of all of our segments could cause us to have inventories in excess of our short-term needs and may delay our ability to recognize, or prevent us from recognizing, revenue on contracts in our order backlog. We have recently experienced significant increases in the amount of inventory that we hold in order to meet certain anticipated demands for our products including our ASF systems. Contract breaches or cancellation of orders may require us to reschedule and/or cancel additional commitments to vendors in the future and require that we write-down any inventory purchased that we are unable to deploy or require that we sell products at prices that are below our historical prices, which would also have a negative impact on our gross margins. Amounts included in our order backlog may not result in actual revenue or translate into profits. Our order backlog is primarily based on signed purchase orders or other written contractual commitments. We cannot guarantee that our order backlog will result in actual revenue in the originally anticipated period, or at all. For example, during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, our backlog was reduced by $135.9 million as a result of contract terminations that did not result in revenue. In addition, the contracts included in our order backlog may not generate margins equal to our historical operating margins. Our customers may experience project delays or default on the terms of their contracts with us as a result of external market factors and economic or other factors beyond our or their control. If a customer fails to perform its contractual obligations and we do not reasonably expect such customer to perform its obligations, we may terminate the contract, which would result in a decrease in our backlog. In addition, our backlog is at risk to varying degrees to the extent customers request that we extend the delivery schedules and make other modifications under their contracts in our order backlog. Any contract modifications that we negotiate could likely include an extension of delivery dates, and could result in lower pricing or in a reduction in the number of units deliverable under the contract, thereby reducing our order backlog and not resulting in any revenue recognized. Our order backlog includes contracts with customers to whom we have sent notices of breach for failure to provide letters of credit or to make payments when due. If we cannot come to an agreement with these customers, it could result in a further reduction of our order backlog. Other customers with contracts, however, may approach us with requests for delays in the future, or may fail to make payments when due, which could further reduce our order backlog. If our order backlog fails to result in revenue in a timely manner, or at all, we could experience a reduction in revenue, profitability and liquidity. We intend to pursue business and technology acquisition opportunities in the future as part of our business plan to grow and diversify our business and we expect that one or more of these acquisitions will expand our product offerings into markets we have not previously served. Our business plan is focused on growing and diversifying our product and technology offerings. Acquiring Crystal Systems, a sapphire manufacturer, was part of this business plan to extend our offerings beyond polysilicon and PV markets. We expect that achieving these goals of growth and diversification will include the acquisition of businesses and technologies from third parties and expect that in the future we will continue to engage in negotiations for such acquisitions. In order to achieve our objective of diversifying our business to technologies outside of polysilicon, photovoltaic and sapphire, we expect that some of these acquisitions will be in markets or industries that may be unrelated to those markets we currently serve. We are, however, an equipment company and we currently expect that future acquisitions will continue to be for the purpose of accessing technologies that will enable us to provide equipment to our customers. 25 Table of Contents This business diversification plan involves risks. Our stock may be valued differently depending on what markets we serve in the future. Diversification may also require significant time and resource commitments from our senior management, which will limit the amount of time these individuals will have available to devote to our existing operations. This diversification may also involve the complexities in managing an employee base that is already located in several different locations and in effectively deploying, operating and utilizing our internal systems, including those related to financial reporting, and other systems we depend on. We may also have very little experience in dealing with these new markets and products. Any failure or any inability to effectively manage and integrate the growth and diversification could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, we may not be successful in acquiring any new businesses or technologies, despite our efforts to do so, and there can be no certainty that we will acquire any other companies or technologies that allow us to diversify. If we do not close acquisitions in accordance with our business plan, we may not be able to diversify revenue and our performance will be tied directly to the PV and sapphire markets, and if one or both experience difficulties, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be negatively impacted. We face competition in each of our business segments, and if our competitors are able to manufacture products that employ newer technologies or are otherwise more widely used than our products, and if we are unable to modify our products to adapt to such future changes, we may be unable to attract or retain customers. The PV energy and sapphire industries are both highly competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to increase their market share and new entrants strive to capture market share. In addition, the PV energy industry also has to compete with the larger conventional electric power industry. The PV and sapphire industries are also rapidly evolving and are highly competitive. Particularly with respect to the solar cell industry, new technologies are leading to rapid improvements in cell efficiencies and performance. Technological advances are, we believe, also resulting in lower manufacturing costs for these products. These developments may render existing products and/or product manufacturing equipment of our PV and sapphire businesses obsolete. We will therefore need to keep pace with technological advances in these industries in order to compete effectively in the future, which may require significant expenditures on research and development or investments in acquisition of other businesses and technologies. For example, our success in (i) the sapphire market depends on our ability to expand into new applications that are based on continued advancement in the design and manufacture of sapphire and LEDs (including sapphire and non-sapphire-based LEDs) and lighting technology by others, as well as the continued demand for sapphire in the LED market (while we believe sapphire is currently one of the preferred substrate materials for certain LED applications, which is the market our ASF customers sell into, research is ongoing for the use of silicon substrates and substrates incorporating other materials in LED applications) and (ii) in the PV market will depend to a large extent in our success in commercializing our monocrystallization technology offerings. Our failure to further refine our technologies and/or develop and introduce new solar power and sapphire products could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect demand for our products, and our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Many of our competitors, in each of our business segments, have, and future competitors may also have, substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. These resources may provide our competitors with an advantage because they can realize economies of scale, synergies and purchase certain raw materials, commodities and key components at lower prices. Current and potential competitors of ours may also have greater brand name recognition, more 26 Table of Contents established distribution networks and larger customer bases, and may be able to devote more resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products or to respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions. In addition, given the ability of other parties to access equipment technology in each of our segments, we also face low-cost competitors who may be able to offer similar products at very competitive prices. We may not be able to maintain our current share of the market in our respective business segments as competitive intensity increases and particularly as our customers are targeted by local low-cost competitors in China and other countries. We believe that certain customers have already begun purchasing our competitors' equipment and installing them in their facilities. Our efforts to capitalize on technological developments in the markets in which we operate, such as the HiCz™ and MonoCast™ growth technology, may not result in increased market share and require that we make substantial capital investments without any corresponding increase in revenues. In addition, customers may place orders to supply equipment for new facilities or future expansions with our competitors, and we believe the likelihood that our customers and others will go to competitors has increased over time. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors and/or new technological developments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. In relation to our polysilicon business, we are not the only provider of polysilicon production equipment to the market based on a Siemens-type CVD reactor design. Although we believe our SDR reactor to be re-designed and distinct from the competing products offered by our competitors, there can be no assurance that our SDR reactor will compete successfully with their products which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. In addition, alternative technologies for producing polysilicon exist and, to the extent that they become more widely available, the demand for our SDR reactor may also be adversely effected. Furthermore, we believe that companies that currently produce polysilicon for their own internal use and consumption compete indirectly with our polysilicon business, as any increase in the supply of polysilicon may have an adverse effect of the demand for our SDR reactor. We currently depend on a small number of customers in any given fiscal year for a substantial part of our sales and revenue. In each fiscal year, we depend on a small number of customers for a substantial part of our sales and revenue. For example, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, one customer accounted for 23% of our revenue and in the fiscal year ended April 2, 2011, one customer accounted for 19% of our revenue. In addition, as of March 31, 2012, we had a $1.8 billion order backlog of which $1.0 billion was attributable to three customers. The failure of our major customers to make any payments, the loss of existing orders or lack of new orders in the future, or a change in the product acceptance schedule by such customers could significantly reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. While we have sought to diversify our business and customer base, we anticipate that our dependence on a limited number of customers will continue for the foreseeable future. There is a risk that existing customers will elect not to do business with us in the future, particularly as we face increased competition in each of our business segments, and/or that these customers will experience financial difficulties. Furthermore, due to the cost of our products, our customers are often dependent on the equity capital markets and debt markets to finance their purchases. As a result, these customers could experience financial difficulties and become unable to fulfill their contracts with us. There is also a risk that these customers will attempt to impose new or additional requirements on us that reduce the gross margins that we are able to generate through sales to such customers. If we do not develop relationships with new customers, we may not be able to increase, or even maintain, our revenue, and our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Our success depends on the sale of a limited number of products. A significant portion of our operating profits has historically been derived from sales of DSS units, SDR reactors, STC converters and ASF units, which sales accounted for 90% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. There can be no assurance that sales of this equipment will increase beyond, or be maintained at, past levels or that any sales of sapphire materials or HiCz™ materials (or any other future product offering, such as our recently commercialized DSS MonoCast technology) will offset any decrease in sales of DSS units, ASF systems or SDR reactors (or result in any revenue). Additionally, we have already experienced decreased demand for some products, sales of our STC converters are substantially lower than in prior periods due to changes in technology, and further changes in technology will also, we expect, result in a further reduction in demand for our DSS multicrystalline furnace. Factors affecting the level of future sales of our products include factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, demand for solar products and sapphire material (including sapphire-based LED material and sapphire use in general illumination), development and/or use of alternatives to sapphire in LED applications (particularly in general illumination) and competing product offerings by other equipment manufacturers. We may be unable to diversify our product offerings and thereby increase our revenue and/or maintain our profits in the event of a decline in DSS units, ASF systems and SDR reactors sales. If sales of our PV, polysilicon or sapphire products decline for any reason, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of third party suppliers. We use certain component parts supplied by a small number of third party suppliers in our polysilicon, PV and sapphire equipment products and ancillary equipment, and certain of these components are critical to the manufacture and operation of certain of our products. For example, we use specialist manufacturers to provide vessels and power supplies which are essential to the manufacture and operation of our polysilicon products. In addition, certain of our products consist entirely of parts and components supplied by third party suppliers, and in these instances filling orders depends entirely upon parties over which we exercise little or no control, and if these contractors were unable to supply, or refused to supply, the parts and components, we would be unable to complete orders which would have a negative impact on our reputation and our business. Our materials businesses, as well as the customers for our ASF units, also depend on suppliers of raw materials and components that are utilized during the manufacturing process. For example, the supply of qualified meltstock and crucibles used to grow sapphire materials is limited and we expect demand will increase as we sell more ASF units, and as a result, there may be an insufficient availability of these items to grow our sapphire materials business as currently planned or available for the purchasers of our crystal growth systems, which would prevent us from growing our sapphire equipment business. Similar shortages may arise for our HiCz™ materials business if and when we commercialize a HiCz™ equipment offering. Further, our agreements with raw material and equipment component suppliers are typically short term in nature, which leaves us vulnerable to the risk that our suppliers may change the terms on which they have previously supplied products to us or cease supplying products to us at any time and for any reason. There is no guarantee that we will maintain relationships with our existing suppliers or develop new relationships with other suppliers. We are also dependent on our suppliers to maintain the quality of the components and equipment we use and the increased demands placed on these suppliers if we continue to grow may result in quality control problems. We may be unable to identify replacement or additional suppliers or qualify their products in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Component parts supplied by new suppliers may also be less suited to our products than the 28 Table of Contents component parts supplied by our existing suppliers. Certain of the component parts used in our products have been developed, made or adapted specifically for us. Such parts are not generally available from other vendors and could be difficult or impossible to obtain elsewhere. As a result, there may be a significant time lag in securing an alternative source of supply. In addition, the inability of our suppliers to support our demand could be indicative of a marketwide scarcity of the materials, which could result in even longer interruptions in our ability to supply our products. We utilize raw materials in manufacturing our materials and equipment and the prices for these materials fluctuate significantly and any increases in price or decrease in availability will harm our business In the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to market risk from fluctuations in the price of raw materials and commodities necessary in the manufacture of our products, such as graphite, steel, copper, helium and molybdenum. We experience similar commodity risks in connection with the consumable materials utilized in our products, and in certain cases, there is very limited access to these commodities. The increase in the price of these commodities, due to further limitations of availability or to greater demand, will make our products less attractive and will harm our material and equipment business. If we bring more entrants into these markets, these commodity risks increase. Any significant increase in these prices would increase our expenses, decrease demand for our products and hurt our profitability. In addition, demand for our products will be negatively impacted if the raw materials that are used to create polysilicon, PV materials and sapphire were to increase. Our failure to obtain sufficient raw materials, commodities, component parts for our equipment and/or third party equipment that meet our requirements in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms could interrupt or impair our ability to assemble our products, and may adversely impact our plans to expand and grow our business, as well as result in a loss of market share. Further, such failure may prevent us from delivering our products as required by the terms of our contracts with our customers, and may harm our reputation and result in breach of contract and other claims being brought against us by our customers. Any changes to our current supply arrangements, whether to the terms of supply from existing suppliers or a change in our suppliers, may also increase our costs in a material amount. The prices for polysilicon and sapphire material, as well as silicon ingots, have, in the past, dropped as a result of either increased supply or decreased demand, and, at the same time, the prices for the inputs to create this output has either remained consistent or increased, which has resulted in decreased margins for polysilicon and sapphire and PV manufacturers, and if these circumstances were to continue or dampen, the demand for our PV, polysilicon and sapphire equipment would be negatively impacted. The prices for polysilicon, sapphire and PV materials have decreased recently due, in part, to either excess supply or decreasing demand for these materials. Concurrently with these price drops, the costs for the consumable materials that are used in our equipment to make polysilicon, sapphire boules and PV ingots and wafers have either remained steady or, in some cases, increased. These two factors, operating in tandem, result in decreased margins for the manufacturers selling polysilicon, sapphire boules and PV ingots and wafers, and, depending on circumstances, could result in negative margins. If this situation were to persist, we would expect that the demand for our polysilicon reactors, ASF units and DSS furnaces (including our newly commercialized DSS MonoCast™ 450) would drop and may hamper the adoption of any new technologies we introduce (including our proposed HiCz™ equipment offering, which is still currently in devlopment). The on-going global economic uncertainty and tightened credit markets may exacerbate these circumstances. We may face product liability claims and/or claims in relation to third party equipment. It is possible that our products could result in property damage and/or personal injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper use or installation or other causes. We cannot predict whether 29 Table of Contents or not product liability claims will be brought against us or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on our business, which may include loss of existing customers, failure to attract new customers and a decline in sales. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages being payable by us, and we may not have adequate resources to satisfy any judgment against us. Furthermore, it may be difficult or impossible to determine whether any damage or injury was due to product malfunction, operator error, failure of the product to be operated and maintained in accordance with our specifications or the failure of the facility in which our products are used to comply with the facility specifications provided to our customers or other factors beyond our control. For example, one of our significant customers experienced chamber leakage involving a number of DSS units in its facilities which we believe was the result of their facility failing to conform to specifications. We nonetheless agreed to replace certain chambers at our cost. Other customers may experience similar issues in the future as a result of product defects, facilities not complying with specifications or other reasons. To date, we have not received any product liability or other claims with respect to these or any other accidents. In addition, we have provided third party equipment in connection with our product sales. There can be no guarantee that such third party equipment will function in accordance with our intended or specified purpose or that the customer's personnel, in particular those who are inexperienced in the use of the specialized equipment sold by us, will be able to correctly install and operate it, which may result in the return of products and/or claims by the customer against us. In the event of a claim against us due to third party equipment, we may be unable to recover all or any of our loss from the third party equipment provider. The bringing of any product liability claims against us, whether ultimately successful or not, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Our future success depends on our management team and on our ability to attract and retain key technical employees and to integrate new employees into our management team successfully. We are dependent on the services of our management team and our technical personnel. Although certain members of our management team are subject to agreements with us, any and all of them may choose to terminate their employment with us on thirty or fewer days' notice. The loss of any member of the management team could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. There is a risk that we will not be able to retain or replace these or other key employees. Integrating new employees into our management team could prove disruptive to our daily operations, require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention and ultimately prove unsuccessful. In addition, we are implementing our succession planning measures for our management and key staff or skilled employees. However, if we fail to successfully implement these succession plans for management and key staff when necessary, our operating results would likely be harmed. We also depend on our technical personnel to grow our business. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the polysilicon, PV and the sapphire industry, is vital to our success. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and qualified personnel are currently, and for the foreseeable future are likely to remain, a limited resource. Locating candidates with the appropriate qualifications can be costly, time-consuming and difficult. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract new, or retain existing, technical personnel. We may need to provide higher compensation or increased training to our personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, or are required to change the terms on which our personnel are employed, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents New technologies we deploy may not gain market acceptance which could result in decreased cash resources and harm our results of operations. We have expended significant financial resources and technical expertise in developing new products and services that we expect will improve our product portfolio and result in increased revenues. These investments, however, may not result in increased revenues and may require that we incur expenses that result in decreasing our cash balances For example, we have already spent approximately $60 million (and may spend up to an additional $20 million in contingent payments and additional significant capital spending) in connection with our acquisition of Confluence Solar, which we ultimately expect will result in a PV equipment offering, or HiCz™, that is to be designed to produce high efficiency monocrystalline solar ingots, which is expected to lower PV production costs. In addition, we have invested significant amounts in our internal research and development efforts on our DSS MonoCast™ growth technology. We intend the DSS MonoCast™ equipment offering will serve as a bridge to our HiCz™ equipment offering, and we expect that HiCz™ equipment, which is still in development, will, over an extended period of time, supersede our MonoCast™ offerings. Both our MonoCast™ and HiCz™ offerings will be targeted at improving the ingot performance compared to that of multicrystalline silicon materials. If we are successful in commercializing these monocrystalline product lines, we expect that it will result in decreased sales of our multicrystalline products, including the DSS 650, which are currently less expensive but do not generate solar cells offering comparable efficiencies. We are also in the process of developing a silicon carbide equipment tool, but that is still in the early stages of development, and we are expending resources in that development effort. If we are not successful in commercializing these newer product lines, we would lose the significant investments we made in our internal development efforts and in the Confluence Solar acquisition. We also have no experience in manufacturing and selling HiCz™ equipment and silicon carbide manufacturing equipment, and we may be unable to commercialize these products or ensure they gain wide-spread market acceptance. We also have very limited experience in installing and operating DSS MonoCast™ equipment, which is critical to recognizing any revenue on the sales of this product. If we are unable to bring any of these products to market and generate substantial sales, we may be unable to recover any or all of the investments we have made in them. Given the pace of technological advancements in the PV equipment industry, it is possible that monocrystalline production may not gain meaningful market share as other companies develop products that generate solar cells offering even higher efficiency. Alternatively, there are competing monocrystalline production techniques that may result in a more efficient solar wafer and/or equipment that can make comparable quality silicon at equipment prices below what we charge or at which our equipment makes ingots. We face similar challenges and competition with respect to any silicon carbide equipment product we may bring to market. Any of the foregoing would have a significant and negative impact on our business and results of operation. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property adequately and may face litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete effectively against our competitors in the PV, polysilicon and sapphire markets will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our current and future proprietary technologies, product designs, product uses and manufacturing processes under relevant intellectual property laws including, but not limited, to laws relating to patents and trade secrets. We own various patents and patent applications in the United States and other countries relating to our products, product uses and manufacturing processes. To the extent that we rely on patent protection, our patents may provide only limited protection for our technology and may not be sufficient to provide competitive advantages to us. For example, competitors could develop similar or more advantageous technologies or design around our patents or otherwise employ alternative 31 Table of Contents products, equipment or processes that may successfully compete with our products and technology. In addition, patents are of limited duration. Any issued patents may also be challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable. If our patents are challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable, other companies will be better able to develop products that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. Further, we may not have, or be able to obtain, effective patent protection in all of our key sales territories. Our patent applications may not result in issued patents and, even if they do result in issued patents, the patents may not include rights of the scope that we seek. The patent position of technology-oriented companies, including ours, is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. Accordingly, we do not know what degree of protection we will obtain from our proprietary rights or the breadth of the claims allowed in patents issued to us or to others. Further, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important to our business. Third parties may infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate our proprietary technologies, product designs, manufacturing processes and our intellectual property rights therein, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. For example, we have filed a lawsuit in the Hillsborough County Superior Court (Southern District) in New Hampshire against Advanced Renewable Energy Company, LLC ("ARC"), Kedar Gupta, its Chief Executive Officer and Chandra Khattak, an ARC employee, for the misappropriation of trade secrets relating to sapphire crystallization processes and equipment. Because the laws and enforcement mechanisms of various countries that we seek protection in may not allow us to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, the strength of our intellectual property rights will vary from country to country. Litigation to prevent, or seek compensation for such infringement, misappropriation or other violation, such as the ARC lawsuit described above, may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business without any guarantee of success. Further, we conduct significant amounts of business in China, yet enforcement of Chinese intellectual property related laws (including trade secrets) has historically been weak, primarily because of ambiguities in Chinese laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, the intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections available to us in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. We also rely upon proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other know-how or trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we generally enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements could be breached and are limited, in some instances, in duration and may not provide meaningful protection for the trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise that we hold. We have had in the past and may continue to have certain of our employees terminate their employment with us to work for one of our customers or competitors. Adequate or timely remedies may not be available in the event of misappropriation, unauthorized use or disclosure of our manufacturing expertise, technological innovations and trade secrets. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our manufacturing expertise, technological innovations and trade secrets through independent development or other legal means and, in such cases, we may not be able to assert any trade secret rights against such a party. We may face claims in relation to the infringement or misappropriation of third-party intellectual property rights. We may be subject to claims that our products, processes or product uses infringe the intellectual property rights of others. These claims, even if meritless, could be expensive and time consuming to defend. In addition, if we are not successful in our defense of such claims, we could be subject to injunctions and/or damages, or be required to enter into licensing arrangements requiring royalty 32 Table of Contents payments and/or use restrictions. In some instances, licensing arrangements may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on acceptable terms. Due to the competitive nature of the industries in which we participate, we may face potential claims by third parties of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of such third parties' intellectual property rights. From time to time we have received and may in the future receive notices or inquiries from other companies suggesting that we may be infringing their patents or misappropriating their intellectual property rights. Such notices or inquiries may, among other things, threaten litigation against us. Furthermore, the issuance of a patent to us does not guarantee that we have the right to practice the patented invention. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing our own patented product and practicing our own patented technology. In addition, third parties could allege that our products and processes make use of their unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise and/or trade secrets, whether in breach of confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements or otherwise. If an action for infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of third party rights were successfully brought against us, we may be required to cease our activities on an interim or permanent basis and could be ordered to pay compensation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Additionally, if we are found to have willfully infringed certain intellectual property rights of another party, we may be subject to treble damages and/or be required to pay the other party's attorney's fees. Alternatively, we may need to seek to obtain a license of the third party's intellectual property rights or trade secrets, which may not be available, whether on reasonable terms or at all, and such technology may be licensed to other parties thereby limiting any competitive advantage to us. In addition, any litigation required to defend such claims brought by third parties may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business, without any guarantee of success. Moreover, we may also not have adequate resources to devote to our business in the event of a successful claim against us. From time to time, we hire personnel who have obligations to preserve the secrecy of confidential information and/or trade secrets of their former employers. Some former employers monitor compliance with these obligations. While we have policies and procedures in place to guard against the risk of breach by our employees of confidentiality obligations to their former employers, there can be no assurance that a former employer of one or more of our employees will not allege a breach and seek compensation for alleged damages. If such a former employer were to successfully bring such a claim, our know-how and/or skills base could be restricted and our ability to produce certain products and/or to continue certain business activities could be affected, to the detriment of our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. The international nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in foreign countries. A substantial majority of our marketing and distribution takes place outside the United States, primarily in China, and substantially all of our sales are to customers outside the United States. We also have contracts with customers in Europe and expect to recognize revenue from sales to customers in Asia and Europe in the future. In addition, we have transitioned our global operations center to Hong Kong, further increasing our exposure to the risks of operating in Asia. As a result, we are subject to the legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions other than the United States. Risks inherent to maintaining international operations, include, but are not limited to, the following: •trade disputes between countries in which our customers sell end-products, including their sales of solar wafers, cells and modules, and sapphire materials produced with our furnaces or reactors, which could result in government or trade organization actions that have the effect of 33 Table of Contents increasing the price for our and our customers' products which would have a corresponding decrease in the demand for our products; •withholding taxes or other taxes on our foreign income, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls imposed by or in other countries; •the inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights in other jurisdictions, at a reasonable cost or at all; •difficulty with staffing and managing widespread and growing international operations; •complying with regulatory and legal requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate and sell products; •effectively operating and maintaining our internal controls and financial reporting processes across multiple countries; •trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make our product offering less competitive in some countries; and •establishing ourselves and becoming tax resident in foreign jurisdictions. Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed under differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop, implement and maintain policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. As a result of any of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. We are a global corporation with significant operations in Asia, and challenges by various tax authorities to our global operations could, if successful, increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our earnings. We are a Delaware corporation that operates through various affiliates and subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world, including in Asia. We established our global operations center in Hong Kong and our operations in Asia have grown significantly. Our income taxes are based upon the applicable tax laws, treaties, and regulations in the many countries in which we operate and earn income as well as upon our operating structures in these countries. While we believe that we carefully analyze and account for the tax risks and uncertainties under the applicable rules, multiple tax authorities could contend that a greater portion of our and our affiliates' income should be subject to income or other tax in their respective jurisdictions. If successful, these challenges could result in an increase to our effective tax rate. We continue to monitor the impact of various international tax proposals and interpretations of the tax laws and treaties in the countries where we operate, including those in the United States, China, Hong Kong, and other countries. If enacted, certain changes in tax laws, treaties, regulations, or their interpretation could result in a higher tax rate on our earnings, which could result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flow from operations. Compliance with the legal systems of the countries in which we offer and sell our products could increase our cost of doing business. We offer and sell our products internationally, including in some emerging markets. As a result, we are and/or may become subject to the laws, regulations and legal systems of the various jurisdictions in which we carry on business and/or in which our customers or suppliers are located. Among the laws and regulations applicable to our business are health and safety and environmental regulations, which 34 Table of Contents vary from country to country and from time to time. We must therefore design our products and ensure their manufacture so as to comply with all applicable standards. Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, including any change in existing legal and regulatory requirements, may cause us to incur costs and may be difficult, impractical or impossible. In addition, China's legal system, where we do a significant amount of business, is rapidly evolving and, as a result, the interpretation and enforcement of many laws (including intellectual property laws), regulations and rules are not always uniform and legal proceedings in China often involve uncertainties and legal protections afforded are uncertain and may be limited. In addition, any litigation brought by or against us in China may be protracted and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention and the anticipated outcome would be highly uncertain. Accordingly, foreign laws and regulations which are applicable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. As a result of the procedural requirements or laws of the foreign jurisdictions in which we carry on business and/or in which our customers or suppliers are located, we may experience difficulty in enforcing supplier or customer agreements or certain provisions thereof, including, for example, the limitations on the product warranty we typically include in our customer contracts. In some jurisdictions, enforcement of our rights may not be commercially practical in light of the duration, cost and unpredictability of such jurisdiction's legal system. Any inability by us to enforce, or any difficulties experienced by us in enforcing, our contractual rights in foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. We are subject to export restrictions and laws affecting trade and investments, and the future sale of our products may be further limited or prohibited in the future by a government agency or authority. As a global company headquartered in the United States, our products and services are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that may limit and/or restrict the export (and re-export from other countries) of some of our products, services and related product and technical information, as well as laws of those foreign jurisdictions to which we sell or from which we re-export our products. Compliance with these laws and regulations could significantly limit our operations and our sales in the future and failure to comply could result in a range of penalties, including restrictions on exports of all of our products for a specified time period, or forever, and severe monetary penalties. In certain circumstances, these restrictions may affect our ability to interact with our foreign subsidiaries and otherwise limit our trade with third parties (including vendors and customers) operating inside and outside the U.S. In addition, as we introduce new products, we may need to obtain licenses of approvals from the US and other governments to ship them into foreign countries. Failure to receive the appropriate approvals may mean that our development efforts (and expenses related to such development) may not result in any revenue, particularly as most of our customers are located in foreign jurisdictions. This would have a material and adverse impact on our business and our development efforts. In addition, certain customers of our sapphire materials business operate in the defense sector or are subcontractors of companies in the defense industry, and our products are incorporated in, among other things, missiles, military aircraft and aerospace systems. In addition, Crystal Systems has received funding from the U.S. government in connection with certain research work for certain U.S. government agencies. Certain work performed pursuant to certain of these contracts is not commercially available, but we may make it available commercially in the future. The State Department, the Commerce Department or other government agencies may, however, determine that our sapphire material or other products, including our ASF systems, PV furnaces and/or polysilicon reactors, are important to the military potential of the U.S. If so, we may be subject to more stringent export licensing requirements or prohibited from selling certain of our sapphire materials for certain applications (or end uses), ASF systems, PV furnaces and/or polysilicon reactors to any customer 35 Table of Contents outside the U.S. or to customers in certain jurisdictions. The government has, and will likely continue to, vigorously enforce these laws in light of continuing security concerns. If the export or sale of any of our current or future products outside the U.S. are limited or restricted by the U.S. government or any foreign government, our operations and results of operations would be negatively impacted. We face particular market, commercial, jurisdictional and legal risks associated with our business in China. We have had significant sales in China, accounting for 52% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, 71% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended April 2, 2011 and 63% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended April 3, 2010. Further, we have significant facilities and operations in China. Accordingly, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected by economic, political and legal conditions or developments in China. Examples of economic and political developments that could adversely affect us include government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In addition, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China remain government owned. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy, including the recent announcement by the Chinese Premier that China would target a lower growth rate than previous years, could result in decreased capital expenditures by solar and sapphire product manufacturers, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Additionally, China has historically adopted laws, regulations and policies which impose additional restrictions on the ability of foreign companies to conduct business in China or otherwise place them at a competitive disadvantage in relation to domestic companies. Any adverse change in economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on our overall economic growth and therefore have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. We have expanded, and expect that we will continue to expand, our presence in China, including in the areas of customer service, certain manufacturing services, administrative functions, sales and research and development. As we adopt a greater presence in China, we are increasingly exposed to the economic, political and legal conditions and developments in China, which could further exacerbate these risks, including the risk that we may not be able to obtain adequate legal protection in connection with any technological developments resulting from our research and development conducted in China. We have entered into and may enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions that may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, expose us to litigation or unknown liabilities, dilute stockholder value and divert management attention. We may enter into business combinations or purchases. For example, we acquired Confluence Solar in 2011 and Crystal Systems in 2010. Acquisitions and combinations are accompanied by a number of risks, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company, disruption of our ongoing business, distraction of management, expenses related to the acquisition and potential unknown liabilities and claims associated with acquired businesses. We may be subject to (i) liability for activities of the acquired company prior to the acquisition, including environmental and tax and other known and unknown liabilities and (ii) litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims brought by terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties. In addition, there may, in particular, be risks and uncertainties in connection with the intellectual property rights and ownership of technology of an acquired company, including (i) the nature, extent and value of the intellectual property and technology assets of an acquired company, (ii) the rights that an acquired company has to utilize intellectual 36 Table of Contents property and technology that it claims to have developed or to have licensed, and (iii) actions by third parties against the acquired company for intellectual property and technology infringement and the extent of the potential loss relating thereto. Third parties may also be more likely to assert claims against the acquired company, including claims for breach of intellectual property rights, once the company has been acquired by us. Any inability to integrate completed acquisitions or combinations in an efficient and timely manner or the inability to properly assess and utilize the intellectual property and technology portfolio without infringing the rights of a third party could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to recognize any expected synergies or benefits in connection with a future acquisition or combination or we may be unable to effectively implement the business plan for the acquired company, which would prevent us from achieving our financial and business goals for the business. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions or combinations that we may pursue in the future, we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources without a successful result. In addition, future acquisitions could require use of substantial portions of our available cash or result in the incurrence of debt or dilutive issuances of securities. If we were to incur additional debt in the future in connection with an acquisition, or otherwise, it may contain covenants restricting our future activities, may incur significant interest rates or penalties for breach and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash to pay the principal or interest. Also, any issuance of equity securities may be dilutive. Acquisitions and combinations also frequently require the acquiring company to recognize significant amounts of intangible assets, such as goodwill, patents and trademarks and customer lists, in an acquisition, which amounts may be subject to a future impairment if we are unable to successfully implement the operating strategy for the acquired company. Our ability to supply a sufficient number of products to meet demand could be severely hampered by natural disasters or other catastrophes. Currently, a portion of our operations are located in Asia and we have increased our presence in Asia by opening our global operations center in Hong Kong. Additionally, a significant portion of our revenue is generated from customers that install our equipment in Asia and many of our suppliers are also located in Asia. These areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods. A significant catastrophic event such as earthquakes. floods, war, acts of terrorism or global threats, including, but not limited to, the outbreak of epidemic disease, could disrupt our operations and impair distribution of our products, damage inventory, interrupt critical functions, cause our suppliers to be unable to meet our demand for parts and equipment, reduce demand for our products, prevent our customers from honoring their contractual obligations to us or otherwise affect our business negatively. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or our inability to fill orders, causes cancellations of customer orders, or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may be subject to concentration of credit risk related to our cash equivalents and short-term investments. We may be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the financial counterparties to our cash equivalent investments and short term investments. This risk may be heightened as a result of the financial crisis and volatility in the markets. We attempt to manage the concentration risk by making investments that comply with our investment policy. Currently, our cash equivalents are invested in cash deposit accounts at our financial institutions. Although we do not currently believe the principal amounts of these investments are subject to any material risk of loss, the recent volatility in the financial markets is likely to significantly impact the investment income we receive from these investments. In general, increases of credit risk related to our cash equivalents and short-term 37 Table of Contents investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Our credit facilities contain covenants that impose significant restrictions on us. On January 31, 2012, we entered into a credit agreement, or Credit Agreement, with Bank of America, N.A. and certain other lenders. The Credit Agreement contains covenants and conditions that restrict our ability to incur certain additional debt, pay dividends and make distributions, enter into specified transactions with affiliates, acquire businesses, among others, and resulted in liens being placed on certain of our properties and assets. The terms of the Credit Agreement also impose financial covenants on us and our subsidiaries relating to our leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio. The foregoing restrictions may limit our ability to operate our business and our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness under the Credit Agreement. If such acceleration occurs, we would be required to repay our indebtedness, and we may not have the ability to do so or we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness, which would prevent us from investing in our business in an effort to grow our operations. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be available on acceptable or reasonable terms. An acceleration of our indebtedness could impair our ability to operate as a going concern. We may face significant warranty claims. All of our equipment and materials are sold with certain warranties. The warranty is typically provided on a repair or replace basis, and is not limited to products or parts manufactured by us. As a result, we bear the risk of warranty claims on all products we supply, including equipment and component parts manufactured by third parties. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in claiming under any warranty or indemnity provided to us by our suppliers in the event of a successful warranty claim against us by a customer or that any recovery from such supplier would be adequate. There is a risk that warranty claims made against us will exceed our warranty reserve and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Exchange rate fluctuations may make our products less attractive to non-U.S. customers and otherwise have a negative impact on our operating results. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and almost all of our contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, greater than 98% of our revenue was generated from sales to customers located outside the United States in each of the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 April 2, 2011 and April 3, 2010, and we expect that a large percentage of our future revenue will continue to be derived from sales to customers located outside the United States. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could make our products less attractive to non-U.S. customers and therefore decrease our sales and gross margins. In addition, we incur costs in the local currency of the countries outside the United States in which we operate and as a result are subject to currency translation risk. Exchange rates between a number of foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly over the last few years and future exchange rate fluctuations may occur. Our largest foreign currency exposure is the euro. In an attempt to mitigate foreign currency fluctuations, we have entered into, from time to time, forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge portions of equipment purchases from vendors located primarily in Europe. Our hedging activities may not be successful in reducing our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, for example, in the quarter ended December 31, 2011 we were required to take a charge of $1.4 million as a result of certain forward foreign exchange contracts no longer qualifying as cash flow hedges, which may occur again if we delay, cancel or otherwise modify the terms of the equipment purchases that affect the forecasted 38 Table of Contents cash flow transaction being hedged. Future exchange rate fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. We have been subject to securities class action lawsuits. Potential similar or related litigation could result in substantial damages and may divert management's time and attention from our business. In 2008, the Company, its directors and certain affiliates were defendants in a class action suits that alleged certain violations under various sections of the Securities Act of 1933, in connection with our initial public offering. In March 2011, these class actions were settled and we were required to pay $10.5 million into a settlement fund. Of this amount, we contributed $1.0 million and our liability insurers contributed the remaining $9.5 million. Our contribution represented its contractual indemnification obligation to its underwriters. As a publicly traded company, we may be subject to additional lawsuits relating to violations of the securities laws. Any such litigation would be expensive, time consuming to defend and, if we were unsuccessful in defending such claims, could result in the payments of significant sums. We do maintain insurance, but the coverage may not be sufficient and may not be available in all instances. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. We have complied with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by assessing, strengthening and testing our system of internal controls. Even though we concluded our system of internal controls was reasonably effective as of March 31, 2012, we need to continue to maintain our processes and systems and adapt them to changes as our business evolves and we acquire new business and technologies. This continuous process of maintaining and adapting our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming, and requires significant management attention. We cannot be certain that our internal control measures will continue to provide adequate control over our financial processes and reporting and ensure compliance with Section 404. Furthermore, as our business changes and if we expand through acquisitions of other companies, our internal controls may become more complex and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify material weaknesses, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remediated, could reduce the market's confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. Interpretations of existing accounting standards or the application of new standards could affect our revenue recognition and other accounting policies, which could have an adverse effect on the way we report our operating results. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretations by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various other organizations formed to promulgate and interpret accounting principles. A change in these accounting principles or their interpretations could affect the reporting of transactions that were completed before the announcement of a change in principles or interpretations. 39 Table of Contents In October 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that provides amendments to the revenue recognition criteria for separating consideration in multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. This guidance prescribes a methodology for determining the fair value, or best estimated selling price, of deliverables on an individual element basis, including elements for which objective reliable evidence of fair value previously did not exist. As noted in Note 2 to our financial statements included herein, under the current revenue guidance, for arrangements containing products considered to be "established", the majority of our revenue is recognized upon delivery of the product. For arrangements containing products considered to be "new", or containing customer acceptance provisions that are deemed more than perfunctory, revenue is recorded upon customer acceptance. If we make incorrect estimates or judgments in applying our revenue recognition policies, for example, if we incorrectly classify a product as "established" when it should have been "new", it may impact the timing of recognizing that revenue and may further result in failing to meet guidance provided by us or require that we restate our prior financial statements. Additional errors in applying estimates or judgments in accounting policies may also adversely impact our operating results and may, in certain cases, require us to restate prior financial statements. If we are unable to adopt and implement adequate data security procedures, we could lose valuable proprietary information, third parties may be able to access information about the operations of our equipment at customer sites and employee data, any of the foregoing may harm our reputation and our results of operations. While we have implemented data security measures, a third party may still gain unauthorized access to our servers, laptops or mobile devices. We store our important proprietary information on our servers, including equipment specifications, and our employees may access this data remotely. This information is also shared via e-mail and we rely on industry standard encryption tools for transmitting data (which has been attacked in the past). If a competitor were able to access this information, we would lose the competitive advantages we believe we have and we could also lose the benefits that are or could be realized from our research and development efforts. Access to this information may be the result of a third-party by-passing our security measures, third party encryption tools not providing adequate protection or inadvertent error by an employee that results in this information being accessed by unauthorized users. Some of our servers containing our proprietary and confidential product and customer information are located in foreign jurisdictions, such as China and Hong Kong, and the governments in these jurisdictions may be able to access, review, retain and use this information without any legal recourse on our part or the right to compensation. In a very limited number of cases, we are able to monitor the operations of our equipment in our customers' facilities. If a third party were able to access this information, they would be able to view important data about the operations of our equipment and use this customer information to their benefit. In addition, it is very likely that our reputation would be harmed among our customers and they could prevent our remote access in the future or even cease purchasing equipment from us. Finally, we also store financial reporting information and employee data on our computer systems. If our financial information were tampered with, investors and could lose confidence in our reported financial results. If our employee information were accessed, our employees may lose confidence in our operations, we may confront challenges attracting new employees and may face government penalties if we were found to have taken inadequate measures to protect employee information. 40 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected by violations of applicable anti-corruption laws or violations of our internal policies designed to ensure ethical business practices. We operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including in countries that do not have as strong a commitment to anti-corruption and ethical behavior that is required by U.S. laws or by corporate policies. We are subject to the risk that we, our U.S. employees or our employees located in other jurisdictions or any third parties that we engage to do work on our behalf in foreign countries may take action determined to be in violation of anti-corruption laws in any jurisdiction in which we conduct business, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (or the FCPA). In addition, we operate in certain countries in which the government may take an ownership stake in an enterprise and such government ownership may not be readily apparent (thereby increasing potential FCPA violations as we conduct business with that entity). Any violation of the FCPA or any similar anti-corruption law could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we have internal ethics policies that we require our employees to comply with in order to ensure that our business is conducted in a manner that our management deems appropriate. If these anti-corruption laws or internal policies were to be violated, our reputation and operations could also be substantially harmed. Further, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. Risks Relating to Our Polysilicon Business The market for polysilicon has been cyclical, resulting in periods of insufficient or excess production capacity and could result in variation in demand for our products. The market for polysilicon has been cyclical. In the recent past, polysilicon supply had increased due principally to expansion by existing manufacturers. This factor, among others, resulted in declining prices in polysilicon. An excess in production capacity for polysilicon has, and in the future may, adversely affect demand for our SDR reactors. There can be no certainty that the increased demand during the periods of expansion in polysilicon manufacturing capacity will persist for an extended period of time, or at all. A lack of demand for our SDR reactors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Conversely, if there are shortages of polysilicon in the future, the PV industry may be unable to continue to grow and/or may decline, and, as a result, demand for our PV products may decrease or may be eliminated. We license and do not own certain components of the technology underlying our SDR reactor and STC converter products. Certain components of the technology underlying our SDR reactor and STC converter products is not owned by us, but is licensed under a ninety-nine year license agreement that could be terminated in the event of a material breach by us of such agreement that remains uncured for more than thirty days, or upon our bankruptcy or insolvency. To the extent such components are deemed to be incorporated into our current or future products, any termination of our rights to use such technology could have a material adverse effect on our ability to offer our polysilicon products and therefore on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects if our company was unable to secure these rights in a different manner or from an alternative arrangement. 41 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Photovoltaic Business Government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications could be reduced or eliminated. Demand for PV equipment, including on-grid applications, has historically been dependent in part on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Currently, the cost of solar electricity exceeds the retail price of electricity in most major markets in the world. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain, South Korea, Japan, China and the United States, have provided subsidies in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax write-offs and other incentives to end-users, distributors, systems integrators and/or manufacturers of PV products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Many of these government incentives have expired or are due to expire in time, phase out over time, cease upon exhaustion of the allocated funding and/or are subject to cancellation or non-renewal by the applicable authority. The reduction, expiration or elimination of relevant government subsidies or other economic incentives may result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy relative to conventional and other renewable sources of energy, and adversely affect demand for PV equipment or result in increased price competition, all of which could cause our sales and revenue to decline and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Further, any government subsidies and economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether at any time and for any reason. We believe that government subsidies and incentives will be eliminated in the near future. Also, relevant statutes or regulations may be found to be anti-competitive, unconstitutional or may be amended or discontinued for other reasons. Some government subsidies and incentives have been subject to challenge in courts in certain foreign jurisdictions. New proceedings challenging minimum price regulations or other government incentives in other countries in which we conduct our business or in which our customers conduct business, may be initiated, and if successful, could cause a decrease in demand for our products. Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of photovoltaic products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of user-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are currently being modified and may be modified again in the future. These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of PV products and investment in the research and development of PV technology. For example, without a mandated regulatory exception for PV systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to end-users of PV systems and make such systems less attractive to potential customers, which may have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. The photovoltaic industry may not be able to compete successfully with conventional power generation or other sources of renewable energy. Although the PV industry has experienced advances in recent years, it still comprises a relatively small component of the total power generation market and competes with other sources of renewable energy, as well as conventional power generation. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread 42 Table of Contents adoption of PV technology and thus demand for solar wafer manufacturing equipment, including the following: •cost-effectiveness of solar energy compared to conventional power generation and other renewable energy sources; •performance and reliability of solar modules compared to conventional power generation and other renewable energy sources and products; •availability and size of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar energy industry; •success of other renewable energy generation technologies such as hydroelectric, wind, geothermal and biomass; and •fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional power generation and other renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil, natural gas and other fossil fuels. As a result of any of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Sapphire Business If our sapphire equipment and material do not achieve market acceptance, prospects for our sapphire business would be limited. The customers to whom we sell the ASF systems are, we believe, largely manufacturing for the LED industry and, in more limited cases, other industrial markets. Potential customers for sapphire equipment and sapphire-based LED materials manufactured with the ASF system may be reluctant to adopt these offerings as an alternative to existing sapphire materials and lighting technology or sapphire manufacturing processes. In addition, many of the customers who purchase our equipment, we believe, will utilize the material for LED lighting. However, LED lighting is currently more expensive than traditional lighting and if the price does not decrease in the near future, our customers may not have a market for the material they produce with our ASF systems, which would reduce the demand for our ASF systems. In addition, potential customers may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing sapphire, LED and lighting technologies, and may perceive risks relating to the complexity, reliability, quality, usefulness and cost-effectiveness of our sapphire equipment and sapphire material products compared to alternative products and technologies available in the market or that are currently under development. For example, companies are developing general lighting technologies that utilize silicon-based material (in lieu of sapphire) and assert that the production costs are significantly lower than the costs to produce sapphire-based lighting materials. If acceptance of sapphire material and sapphire-based LEDs, particularly in general illumination, do not increase significantly, opportunities to increase the sapphire equipment portion of our business and revenues would be limited. In addition, the price of sapphire-based LED material has recently experienced a marked drop due, in part, to the readily available supply of such material. If the price of LED material, which is driven, in large part due to the supply that is generally available, drops, we would expect that our materials and equipment business would be negatively impacted. Any of the foregoing factors could have an adverse impact on the growth of the sapphire portion of our business and the recoverability of our investment in Crystal Systems. Historically, the sapphire industry has experienced volatility in product demand and pricing. Changes in average selling prices of 43 Table of Contents sapphire material as a result of competitive pricing pressures, availability of material, increased sales discounts and new product introductions by competitors could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Crystal growth using the ASF system requires a consistent supply of power and any interruption in the supply of power may result in sapphire material that has reduced or no sales value. The process for growing sapphire boules using the ASF system technology requires that the system be supplied with a consistent supply of power during the cycle required to grow a boule. If there are certain types of power interruptions, which we have experienced at our Salem and Merrimack facilities, even for a brief period of time, the sapphire boule being generated by that system will be of inferior quality and we would likely be unable to sell that sapphire material to a customer. Such power interruptions at our facilities also delay and impair our research and development efforts with respect to sapphire material and ASF systems. In addition, if customers of our ASF system do not have consistent power supplies, our system would not gain market acceptance because it will not create boules of the quality that may be expected by our customers and we would likely not meet the required contractual acceptance criteria necessary to receive the final installment payment and, in many cases, we would not be able to recognize any revenue on that ASF system if such acceptance criteria is not met. Production and sale of sapphire growth systems for producing LED materials is a new industry and we have limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate the business prospects for this business segment. Because of our limited operating history in the sapphire industry it is difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. While we have gained acceptances on our ASF systems from our early customers, our sapphire equipment business, however, presents the difficulties frequently encountered by those that are in the early stage of development, coupled with the risks and uncertainties encountered in new and evolving markets such as the market for sapphire growth technology. We may not be able to successfully address these challenges. If we fail to do so, we may incur losses and our business would be negatively impacted. While we have shipped and commissioned ASF systems at several customer sites, our customers lack experience in operating the ASF systems. Our sapphire furnaces require a skilled and trained employee base to properly operate and efficiently maintain the systems. While we offer training in connection with the sale of ASF systems, at certain customer sites, we have discovered that those applicable customers have not yet hired the personnel or instituted the operations procedures necessary to properly run the ASF system they purchased. As a result of these factors, we believe that certain ASF systems have generated sapphire material that is not salable. Additionally, even in those cases where the sapphire boule was to specification, the boule has not always been properly oriented by the customer and some or all of the value of the sapphire boule was lost as it was sliced and cored. If our customers do not have the manufacturing expertise to operate the ASF systems, they may be delayed in ramping up their operations and sapphire manufacturing operations, we may not recognize revenue from the sale of these systems (or such recognition may be delayed) and the ASF systems may not gain wider market acceptance, all of which would harm our reputation and the results of our sapphire business segment. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, could depress our stock price. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and could impair our 44 Table of Contents ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. In addition, future equity financings could also result in dilution to our stockholders and new securities could have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common shares. Our certificate of incorporation currently authorizes us to issue up to 500 million shares of common stock, and as of March 31, 2012, we had approximately 118 million shares of common stock outstanding. All of these shares are freely tradable, in the public market under a registration statement or an exemption under the securities laws. Moreover, as of March 31, 2012, 7.6 million shares of our common stock were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding vested and unvested options and upon vesting of outstanding restricted stock units. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders may receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: •the removal of directors only by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; •any vacancy on our board of directors, however occurring, including a vacancy resulting from an enlargement of the board, may only be filled by vote of the directors then in office; •inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders or take action by written consent; •advance notice requirements for board nominations and proposing matters to be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and •authorization of the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock without the need for action by stockholders. We are a technology-oriented company and, as such, we expect that the price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. We operate in an industry where there are rapid changes in technologies and product offerings. Broad market, industry and economic factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: •actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; •changes in market prices for our products or for our raw materials; •changes in our financial guidance or estimates made by us or by any securities analysts who may cover our stock or our failure to meet the estimates made by securities analysts; •changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures or significant contracts; •changes in governmental policies with respect to energy; 45 Table of Contents •additions or departures of key personnel; and •sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers or by our larger stockholders. Announcements of contract awards or bankruptcies of solar-related companies could have a significant impact on our stock price. It is common for equipment manufacturers in the business segments in which we operate to enter into contracts for the sale and delivery of substantial amounts of equipment, involving highly competitive bidding situations. Public announcements of contract awards often cause a reaction in the stock market and affect, sometimes significantly, the trading price of the stock of the manufacturer that received a contract award. It could also have a negative effect on the trading price of stock of competitors that did not receive such contract. This reaction may be unrelated to the historical results of operations or financial condition of the affected companies or, in the case of unsuccessful competitors, any guidance they may have provided with respect to their future financial results. An announcement that a competitor of ours was awarded a significant customer contract could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our stock. In addition, there have been several recent announcements that companies offering solar power related services and materials have filed or will file for bankruptcy. For example, Solyndra filed for bankruptcy in August 2011. Such announcements, and future similar announcements, will likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. This will likely be the case even if such companies do not utilize the output for the equipment we sell. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect that our quarterly results will continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect that our quarterly results will continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Future quarterly fluctuations may result from a number of factors, including: •the size of new contracts and when we are able to recognize the related revenue, especially with respect to our polysilicon products; •requests for delays in deliveries by our customers; •delays in customer acceptances of our products; •delays in deliveries from our vendors; •our rate of progress in the fulfillment of our obligations under our contracts; •the degree of market acceptance of our products and service offerings; •the mix of products and services sold; •budgeting cycles of our customers; •product lifecycles; •changes in demand for our products and services; •the level and timing of expenses for product development and sales, general and administrative expenses; •competition by existing and emerging competitors, including in the PV, polysilicon and sapphire industry; 46 Table of Contents •announcements by our competitors or customers of the awarding of a significant contract; •termination of contracts in our backlog; •our success in developing and selling new products and services, controlling costs, attracting and retaining qualified personnel and expanding our sales force; •changes in government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications; •announcements regarding litigation or claims against us; •changes in export licensing or export restrictions with respect to our products; •changes in our strategy; •negative announcements regarding solar and sapphire industry participants, such as the bankruptcies of Evergreen Solar and Solyndra, as well as government investigations of Solyndra operations; •foreign exchange fluctuations; and •general economic conditions. Based on these factors, we believe our future operating results will vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. As a result, quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful nor do they indicate what our future performance willbe. Hedging activity and sales of our common stock related to the Mandatorily Exchangeable Notes issued by UBS AG and/or the expectation of distribution of our common stock at maturity of the exchangeable notes could depress our stock price. During September 2010, UBS AG sold its Mandatorily Exchangeable Notes due 2013, or the exchangeable notes, pursuant to which UBS AG will deliver to holders of the exchangeable notes at maturity up to 17.5 million shares of our common stock or the value of such shares in cash, or a combination of cash and shares, based on a formula linked to the price of our common stock. In connection with the issuance by UBS AG of its exchangeable notes, GT Solar Holdings, LLC (a former significant shareholder) sold an aggregate of 14.0 million shares of our common stock to UBS Securities LLC, an affiliate of UBS AG. We understand that UBS AG and one or more of its affiliates have entered into and/or are expected to enter into hedging arrangements related to UBS AG's obligations under the exchangeable notes. This hedging activity will likely involve trading in our common stock or in other instruments, such as options or swaps, based upon our common stock, and may include sales of common stock acquired by an affiliate of UBS AG upon early exchange of exchangeable notes. This hedging activity could affect our stock price, including by depressing it. Also, the price of our common stock could be depressed by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the exchangeable notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in us and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to occur involving our common stock by investors in the exchangeable notes. Our stock price could become more volatile and could be depressed by investors' anticipation of the potential distribution into the market of substantial additional amounts of our common stock at the maturity of the exchangeable notes. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and as a result, the only opportunity to achieve a return on an investment in our common stock is if the price appreciates. We currently do not expect to declare or pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, our credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A., which we entered into in 47 Table of Contents January 2012, restricts our right to declare or make any dividends, subject to certain exceptions. As a result, the only opportunity to achieve a return on an investment in our common stock will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and the shares are sold at a profit. We cannot assure our investors that the market price for our common stock will ever exceed the price that was paid. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance. From time to time, we release guidance in our quarterly earnings releases, quarterly earnings conference call or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our management's estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, is based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon, or otherwise consider, our guidance in making an investment decision in respect of our common stock. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in our "Risk Factors" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and such differences may be adverse and material. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 