1A. Risk Factors – Risks Related to the Business Combination with New Gold and Operations of the Combined New Gold and Western Goldfields” for a discussion of some of the risks associated with the transaction. 4 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS (a) Business Development We were formed pursuant to a reorganization completed in June 2007 whereby our predecessor, Western Goldfields, Inc., an Idaho corporation (“WGI Idaho”), became our wholly-owned subsidiary as a result of a merger with a newly created subsidiary company, Western Goldfields (USA) Inc., a Nevada Corporation. WGI Idaho was incorporated as Bismarck Mining Inc. in the State of Idaho in 1924 and changed its name to Western Goldfields, Inc. in July 2002. We are an independent gold producer focused on increasing production and maximizing cash flow generation from our Mesquite Mine (“Mesquite” or the “Mine”) in Imperial County, California. Mesquite is our most important asset, and during 2008 provided us with gold production from material that was placed on the heap leach pad from two of our three open pits: Rainbow and Big Chief. No mining was conducted from the Vista pit area. In January 2008 we commenced operations for the production of gold from ore placed on the leach pad in the second half of 2007. The gold produced provided us with positive operating cash flow beginning in the third fiscal quarter of 2008. In 2007 we completed the financing required for the development of the Mesquite Mine to bring it back into full production based on the feasibility report completed in August 2006. See “Our Feasibility Study” below and “Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” New Management and Private Placement Financing On February 13, 2006, we announced the restructuring of our Board of Directors and the appointment of a new senior management team, including Mr. Randall Oliphant as Chairman of the Board, Mr. Raymond Threlkeld as President and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Brian Penny as Chief Financial Officer. On February 20, 2006, we announced the completion of a $6.0 million private placement of our common stock. The proceeds from this private placement were used: · to repay in full our outstanding debt facility of $1.5 million plus accrued interest; · to pay $2.0 to Romarco Minerals Inc. in full satisfaction of amounts owing upon termination of a merger agreement with that company; · to pay costs of approximately $0.8 million for the completion of the Mesquite feasibility study; and · the balance for general corporate purposes. Feasibility Study and Subsequent Developments On August 9, 2006, we announced the completion of a positive feasibility study to expand the operation of our Mesquite mine property. We also announced proven and probable reserves of 2.36 million ounces of gold. Accordingly, we began to capitalize costs incurred in the development of the Mesquite Mine. After completion of the feasibility study, our primary focus was on obtaining financing for and completing the expansion of the Mine. On November 30, 2006, we announced the signing of a mandate letter with Investec Bank (UK) Limited to arrange and underwrite up to $105 million of project debt and that we had received an indicative term sheet. On December 13, 2006, we announced positive initial results from the exploration drilling program underway at the Mesquite Mine. On January 25, 2007, we sold 31,115,000 shares of common stock at Cdn. $2.25 per share pursuant to a prospectus supplement to our shelf prospectus, which we filed in October 2006 for gross proceeds of approximately $59.4 million and net proceeds of approximately $55.2 million. On February 1, 2007, we sold a further 2,215,000 shares of common stock at Cdn. $2.25 per share pursuant to a prospectus supplement to our shelf prospectus, for gross proceeds of approximately $4.2 million and net proceeds of approximately $4.0 million. These shares of common stock were issued upon the exercise of the underwriter’s over allotment option. We have been using the proceeds from this offering to finance our on-going activities at Mesquite, including the acquisition of the majority of the mining equipment fleet, as well as for general corporate purposes. On March 30, 2007, the Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Western Mesquite Mines, Inc., entered into a new term loan facility with Investec Bank (UK) Limited under which the Company will be able to borrow up to $105.0 million in connection with the development of the Mesquite Mine. Interest on advances will be at U.S. LIBOR plus 2.2% until completion (as defined in the credit agreement) and 1.75% after completion. Completion is expected to occur during the first half of 2009. The agreement, in conjunction with the earlier equity financing, completed the financing requirements for Mesquite. The Company had drawn $86.3 million at September 30, 2008 to complete the Mesquite development plan and subsequently, during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2008, repaid $17.7 million leaving $68.6 million outstanding under the credit facility at December 31, 2008. 5 On March 26, 2007 we announced proven and probable reserves of 2.77 million ounces due to the successful 2006 drilling program. On October 12, 2007 we completed an offering of an aggregate of 11,316,000 common shares of the Company, at Cdn. $3.05 per share pursuant to a short form prospectus filed in Canada. The offering was not registered in the United States. The gross proceeds received from this offering were $35.0 million and the net proceeds were approximately $33.4 million. The proceeds from this offering have been and will continue to be used to finance regional exploration activities, carrying out testing on the non-oxide resources, corporate development activities and for general working capital purposes. On October 6, 2008 we announced the implementation of an Improved Mine Plan (“the Plan”) which would lead to sequential mining of the three open pits, beginning in the Rainbow pit, and result in higher production of gold in the four year period 2009 through 2012. As a result of the Plan, certain conditions of the credit agreement were revised including the repayment terms and timing of the completion testing. The repayment schedule was accelerated as a result of the increased production profile with an amortization schedule requiring full repayment by the end of fiscal 2012 versus the end of fiscal 2014 previously. The timing for completion testing was extended with completion required by the end of the second fiscal quarter of 2009. On November 4, 2008 we announced a share repurchase by way of a normal course issuer bid to purchase certain of our outstanding common shares through the Toronto Stock Exchange and NYSE Alternext. We initiated the repurchase program as we felt the market price of the common shares was not reflective of the underlying value. From the period November 7, 2008 through December 31, 2008, the Company repurchased 2.3 million shares at an average price of Cdn. $1.36 per share spending a total of Cdn. $3.1 million on the repurchases including commission related expenses. No additional repurchases have taken place to-date in fiscal 2009. The expansion of the Mine commenced in 2006 and was substantially completed by the end of 2008 at a total cost of $111 million. On August 28, 2006, our common shares commenced trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol WGI, and on November 8, 2007, our common shares commenced trading on the American Stock Exchange, now the NYSE Alternext, under the symbol WGW. Hedging Activities Our preferred approach is to avoid the hedging of gold and provide our shareholders with leverage to changes in the price of gold by selling in the spot market. Under the terms of the term loan facility which we negotiated in early 2007, we were required to enter into a gold hedging program acceptable to the banking syndicate. In June 2007 we entered into a series of forward sales contracts for 429,000 ounces of gold at a price of $801 per ounce. These hedging contracts represent a commitment of 5,500 ounces per month for 78 months commencing July 2008 with the last commitment deliverable in December 2014. During the second half of fiscal 2008, we delivered 33,000 ounces into the hedge leaving 396,000 ounces hedged at December 31, 2008. We also delivered 5,500 ounces in each of January and February 2009 as required under the terms of the agreement. The Company has not designated these contracts as cash flow hedges. Accordingly the hedge accounting rules of SFAS No.133 are not being applied and the period-end mark-to-market adjustments of these contracts is immediately reflected in the Company’s statement of operations and the cumulative effect is reflected as an asset or liability on the balance sheet. At December 31, 2008, the spot price for gold was $870 per ounce compared with our forward sale price of $801, which resulted in our recording an unrealized loss of $45.2 million of which $5.6 million is current. On December 18, 2008 we announced our entry into a fuel hedge program with the hedge of 1.5 million gallons of diesel in each of 2009 and 2010; the 1.5 million gallons represents approximately 25% of the expected diesel consumption in each year. The diesel was hedged at forward prices of $1.82 and $2.00 per gallon for 2009 and 2010, respectively. In addition to these hedged prices, the Company expects to incur approximately $0.15 per gallon related to tax and delivery charges. As approximately 20% of Mesquite’s operating costs are attributable to diesel consumption, the Company felt it prudent to fix this portion of the overall diesel costs. Subsequent to the year end, on January 13, 2009, we announced additional fuel hedges of 1.4 and 1.5 million gallons of diesel in 2009 and 2010, respectively. This second round of hedged diesel was at forward prices of $1.68 and $1.87 per gallon for 2009 and 2010, respectively. Overall, the Company now has approximately 50% of its expected diesel consumption hedged for each of 2009 and 2010 at weighted average prices of $1.75 and $1.94 per gallon (excluding the estimated $0.15 per gallon for tax and delivery charges). Reorganization On June 19, 2007 the shareholders of our predecessor company, WGI Idaho, approved an agreement and plan of merger which became effective June 29, 2007 whereby our place of incorporation was changed from Idaho, USA to Ontario, Canada, and our name was changed from Western Goldfields, Inc. to Western Goldfields Inc. (or “WGI Ontario”). We believe that the reorganization allows us to take advantage of financial and other business opportunities that would not be available under our previous corporate structure, including: being able to complete transactions requiring shareholder approval more quickly; having a higher profile in the Canadian markets; and being a more attractive investment to a wider range of Canadian investors, while still being able to access U.S. capital markets. 6 On completion of the reorganization, the shares of common stock in Western Goldfields, Inc. (the predecessor Idaho corporation) automatically became an equal number of common shares of no par value in Western Goldfields Inc. (the successor Ontario corporation) and the economic ownership of shareholders in the new company remained unchanged. Proposed Business Combination Western Goldfields Inc. and New Gold Inc. (“New Gold”) have entered into a definitive business combination agreement dated March 3, 2009 for the purpose of combining the ownership of their respective businesses. Under the terms of the agreement, New Gold will acquire by way of a plan of arrangement all of the outstanding common shares of Western Goldfields on the basis of one New Gold common share and CDN$0.0001 in cash for each common share of Western Goldfields (the "Transaction"). Upon completion of the Transaction, New Gold will have approximately 348 million shares outstanding (436 million fully-diluted). The Transaction is subject to regulatory approvals, court approval and obtaining a minimum two-thirds approval of those shares voted at a special meeting of the shareholders of Western Goldfields and majority approval at a special meeting of the shareholders of New Gold. The Transaction has been structured as a plan of arrangement under the Business Corporations Act (Ontario). The parties expect to complete and mail the joint information circular in April 2009 and plan to hold the special meetings of shareholders in May 2009. The Transaction is expected to close at the end of May 2009. The definitive business combination agreement entered into in connection with the Transaction includes a commitment by each of New Gold and Western Goldfields not to solicit alternative transactions to the proposed Transaction. In certain circumstances, if a party terminates the definitive agreement to enter into an agreement to effect an acquisition proposal that is different from the Transaction, then such party is obligated to pay to the other party as a termination payment an aggregate amount equal to Cdn. $8.8 million if New Gold is the terminating party and Cdn. $8.8 million if Western Goldfields is the terminating party. Each party has also been provided with certain other rights, representations and warranties and covenants customary for a transaction of this nature, and each party has the right to match competing offers made to the other party. Corporate Structure: The Company’s four wholly owned subsidiaries are: Western Goldfields (USA) Inc. (a holding company), Western Goldfields (Canada) Inc. (a management company), Western Mesquite Mines, Inc. (an operating company), and Calumet Mining Company (a dormant exploration company). (b) Business of the Issuer We are a gold production and exploration company with a focus on precious metal mining opportunities in North America. Currently the Mesquite Mine is our sole mineral property. Mesquite is a low-grade, open-pit operation employing heap leach pad technology which we acquired in November 2003 from Newmont Mining Corporation (“Newmont”). The mine is permitted and financed. From late 2003 until late 2007, the Mine provided us with residual gold production from material that had been placed on the heap leach pad by Newmont and previous owners of the property. This production provided us with some operating cash flow to help sustain our operations pending the reactivation of the Mine. In mid 2007, we commenced pre-production mining activities and in January 2008 we commenced operations for the production of gold from ore placed on the leach pad in the second half of 2007. In October 2008 we announced the Improved Mine Plan which should result in higher production of gold in the years 2009 through 2012. 7 In February 2006, the management team was changed and interim financing was arranged. In August 2006, we completed a feasibility study for expansion and operation of Mesquite based on proven and probable reserves of 2.36 million ounces of gold. The feasibility study provided grounds to resume mining operations and to expand existing, inactive open pit mines on the property. After completion of the feasibility study, our priority had been to finance the development of the Mesquite Mine and bring it back into full production. We achieved both these objectives by December 31, 2007 and in fiscal 2008 the focus shifted to increasing production and maximizing cash flow generation from the Mine through planned improvements to the property. The Mine is fully funded and we anticipate production to average approximately 150,000 ounces per year over the twelve year life of the mine, with annual variances in production both above and below this average. In late 2006 we embarked on an expansion capital expenditure program budgeted at $108.6 million to acquire the mobile mining fleet and carry out several major infrastructure projects necessary to bring Mesquite back into full production. The fleet includes 14 haul trucks, 2 shovels, 1 front end loader and several ancillary items. Commencing in the Spring of 2007 we started to take delivery of the mining units and by year-end 2007 all the units had been placed into service. The major items in the construction program were the leach pad expansion, retrofit of the process plant, and construction of a truck repair shop, warehouse and mine operations administrative office. The expansion program was substantially completed by December 31, 2008 at a total cost of $111 million. On March 26, 2007 we announced that we had increased proven and probable reserves at Mesquite from 2.36 million ounces of gold to 2.77 million ounces. Approximately 50% of the increase is attributable to results from a drilling program of 27 holes at the Brownie Hill area of the mine which converted inferred oxide resources to proven and probable reserves, and the remaining 50% is attributable to an increase in the reserve gold price assumption from $450 to $500 per ounce. At December 31, 2008, proven and probable reserves were estimated to be 2.57 million ounces, a reduction of 0.20 million ounces, reflecting production depletion from mining activity in 2008. There was no change in the reserve gold price assumption of $500 per ounce. Our current operations involve circulating cyanide solution through the heap leach pad. The gold and silver in solution is then extracted by processing the “pregnant” solution through activated carbon which is then periodically treated to recover the gold and silver into dore. The dore is then transported to Johnson Matthey Inc. for further refining to 99.99% pure bullion. We sell our gold production to bullion dealers and refiners. In 2008, our sales of $95.4 million were apportioned between the spot gold market and delivery into the gold hedge per the terms of our credit facility. $69.0 million of sales were generated at the spot gold price with $26.4 million of sales attributable to the sale of 33,000 ounces of gold at fixed forward prices of $801 per ounce. The loss of any of our customers would not have a material adverse effect on the Company as there is an available market for our gold bullion from other purchasers. Description of the Mesquite Mine The Mine property is located primarily in Sections 3-10 and 15-19, Township 13 South, Range 19 East, SBB&M, south of the Chocolate Mountains in Imperial County, California, approximately 35 miles east of Brawley, California, and 45 miles northwest of Yuma, Arizona, just north of the Mexican border at an elevation of between 600 and 1,000 feet above sea level. The property consists of 309 unpatented mining and millsite claims located on federal land administered by the Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”), approximately 170 patented tracts that are privately owned, and one piece of school trust lands leased from the California State Lands Commission (“State”). Part of the property is operated by Western Mesquite Mines, Inc. (“WMMI”) for mining purposes and part is operated by County Sanitation District No. 2 of Los Angeles (“LACSD”) for a regional landfill facility. The rights and obligations of WMMI and the LACSD are contained in a Mineral Lease and Landfill Facilities Lease Agreement dated June 25, 1993 (“the Landfill Agreement”). The term of the Landfill Agreement is 31 years commencing June 25, 1993, and so long thereafter as WMMI continues to mine or process ore on the property, but not to exceed 85 years in total. LACSD began transporting refuse to their landfill site during the latter portion of 2008. With regard to that part of the property used for mining purposes, portions are privately owned by WMMI, portions consist of unpatented mining and millsite claims on BLM land that are owned (264 claims) or leased (45 claims) by WMMI, and portions are owned by the State and leased by WMMI. The subject leases are as follows: § WMMI leases a group of 40 unpatented mining and millsite claims from the Sanitation District under the terms of the Landfill Agreement. As noted above, the term of that lease is 31 years commencing June 25, 1993, and so long thereafter as WMMI continues to mine or process ore on the property, but not to exceed 85 years in total. § WMMI leases a group of five unpatented mining claims from Bonnie Kovac, James Harbison and Stephen Galambos, Jr. pursuant to a Mineral Lease and Purchase Option dated October 20, 1982. The term of that lease is initially for 21 years and for a period so long thereafter as WMMI continues to exercise certain rights and continues to make minimum advance royalty payments under the lease. 8 § WMMI leases 657.87 acres of land from the State pursuant to a Mineral Extraction Lease (No. PRC 8039.2) issued October 1, 2002. The term of that lease is ten years with a preferential right to renew for two successive periods not to exceed ten years each upon such reasonable terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the State. The overall area covered by the Conditional Use Permit, issued by Imperial County, and the Record of Decision, issued by the BLM, is approximately 5,200 acres. Mining operations are supported by existing infrastructure, a reliable water supply, grid electric power and State Highway 78, which passes close to the Mine. The nearest rail siding is 15 miles away, but the rail line will be extended to the Mine as part of the LACSD landfill project; this rail line extension is currently in progress. The property is in a desert region with average annual rainfall of approximately three inches and sparse desert vegetation. Since mining operations commenced in 1986, three major pits have been developed: Big Chief to the northwest of the property, Rainbow to the northeast of the property, and Vista in between them. The Mine infrastructure is located in the center of the property, feeding two distinct areas of leach pad located to the south on the pediment. The carbon plant is located to the southwest of the leach pad. Expansion plan Newmont developed a Mesquite Mine expansion plan to mine additional mineralized material remaining in-situ and adjacent to the open pits. A Record of Decision (“ROD”) was issued by the BLM in 2002, allowing for the expansion of the existing operations. The ROD defines and authorizes future new disturbance that allows for expansion of the Big Chief, Rainbow and Vista open pits. Our feasibility study of August 2006 is the basis for the redevelopment of the mining operations. Under the terms of our permits, we will process run-of-mine ore by expanding the easternmost, Phase 6 leach pad. The feasibility study report set out the mining fleet requirements for pre-production and commercial production. Our fleet acquisition program in 2007 was based on these requirements. Additional investment in the processing facilities, in the amount of $26.5 million, which includes $19.5 million for the heap leach pad expansion and $7 million for new processing facilities and modernization of existing facilities was also included in the expansion. The retrofit of the process plant was completed during the first fiscal quarter of 2008; new carbon columns for the processing circuit were also installed during the quarter and were brought on line April 25, 2008. In May 2007, an additional $2.6 million surety bond was posted in respect of future reclamation costs, bringing the total amount subject to such bonds in respect of reclamation costs to $11.3 million. Permit conditions defined by the ROD also include, among other things, the implementation and maintenance of tortoise education programs for employees, the construction of approved tortoise fencing and the provision of 1,394 acres of tortoise habitat within the Chuckawalla Bench Area, an area to the north of Mesquite Mine, to mitigate future disturbance of tortoise habitat. During the fourth quarter of 2006 we provided funds to the appropriate regulatory agencies for the purchase and management of the compensation lands. Hanson Natural Resources Company (“HNRC”), a previous owner of the Mine, permitted a permanent landfill facility on a portion of the lands occupying the southwest sector of the property. In June 1993, Newmont entered into a mineral lease and landfill facilities lease agreement with HNRC to conduct mining operations concurrently with the proposed landfill operation. HNRC subsequently sold the landfill site to LACSD which began landfill operations in late 2008. We believe that there are opportunities for synergies between our mining operations and this future landfill operation. This agreement is more fully described in Future Landfill Development, below. 9 Geology, Mineralization and Prior Mining Operations The Mesquite Mining District lies beneath alluvial pediment deposits at the base of the Chocolate Mountains. Small bedrock outcrops were left uncovered by this pediment to form the pre-mine surface exposure of the deposit. Several regional blocks, comprised of distinct rock units, form boundaries to the district. Lithologies exposed in the southern Chocolate Mountains include Proterozoic granitic and metamorphic rocks, Mesozoic metamorphic and plutonic units, early to mid-Tertiary volcanic and plutonic rocks, and Tertiary to Recent sedimentary units. Proterozoic to Mesozoic units are represented by the Chuckwalla Complex, while the Mesozoic terraine is a structurally complicated package of gneisses, schist, phylitte, and plutons (Manske, 1991). These include the Orocopia Schist, and probable Jurassic Winterhaven Formation, overlain by the Tertiary Quechan Volcanic rocks and Quaternary alluvial deposits. There are three main structural components which appear to have provided conduits for mineralization and offsets to mineralization found at the Mesquite Mine. The Mesquite mine area is hosted in a Jurassic aged gneiss and pluton terrane. The stratigraphic sequence is, from bottom to top: mafic, hornblende biotite, and biotite gneiss overlain by Bay Horse Quartzite and Muscovite Schist. These units have been crosscut by a number of quartz, feldspar, biotite and muscovite rich granite sills, plutons and dikes. The gneiss units are present in a shallowly dipping stratigraphic sequence, offset by numerous high and low angle faults. This package is overlain by up to 400 feet of Tertiary lithified silts, sands, and gravels and unconsolidated Quaternary gravels. Northwest trending structures appear to have the greatest control on gold distribution, while the younger northeast trending faults have offset mineralization in a stair step fashion. East west striking near vertical and northwest striking low angle structures are also seen on the property. The system is bounded by structures sub-parallel to the San Andreas Fault system. Deposition of gold was within an epithermal environment along fractures, and the deposit was subsequently oxidized down to around 500 feet below current surface topography. Visible gold has been identified throughout the Mesquite area. Small flakes of free “flour” gold have been found within the fault zones. Gold occurs at Mesquite as both submicron disseminated and coarse gold. All documented gold occurrences are native gold, and classification has been based on silver content and grain size. The ores of Mesquite have proven to be readily amenable to heap leach processing over the past twenty years of operations. Goldfields Mining Corporation (“Goldfields”), began acquiring leases and started an exploratory drill program and ultimately the Mine was developed in 1985 with the construction of an open pit mine with heap leach gold recovery that commenced commercial operations in March 1986. In 1989, HNRC acquired Goldfields and subsequently exchanged its wholly owned gold operations for assets held by Santa Fe Pacific Minerals Corporation (“Santa Fe”) in 1993. In 1997, Newmont acquired Santa Fe and continued mining operations until May 2001. Newmont continued depositing ore on the heap leach pad until August 2001. Residual gold was drawn from the leach pad from 2001 until late 2007. Total gold production from mine inception in 1986 through December 31, 2007 consisted of approximately 4,000,000 ounces of gold being placed on the leach pad resulting in approximately 3,000,000 ounces of gold being produced and sold. Holding costs and royalty agreements We pay annual holding costs for our Mesquite properties of approximately $180,000. These include payments to the BLM, maintenance fees to Imperial County, California, state lease fees, a lease payment to LACSD and other lease fees and property taxes. Previously mined material and any newly mined material at Mesquite will be subject to production royalties ranging from 2.0% to 6.8% depending on the location. Newmont retained a 50% interest in the net operating cash flow on the ore they had mined and that was on the pad undergoing residual leaching. No royalty was paid under the contractual agreement in 2006 or 2007. This cash flow royalty was terminated in 2007. In addition, Newmont retained a production royalty ranging from 0.5% to 2.0% net smelter return (“NSR”) on any newly mined ore. We started to pay this royalty in respect of our new production in late 2007. This interest was assigned by Newmont to Franco-Nevada U.S. Corporation under an agreement dated December 20, 2007. A total of $2.1 million was paid during 2008 as a result of the NSR royalty. 10 The Mesquite properties are subject to the following royalties: Property Original Owner Franco-Nevada California State Lands Lease 4.0 – 6.0 % 0.5 % Wade/Kelly Patents 6.3 % 0.5 % McCrae/Hoover Patents 6.0 % 0.5 % Glamis & Associates Claims 2.0 % 1.0 % Hospah Claims (Newmont) — 2.0 % The life-of-mine average expected royalty is approximately 2.4%. Mining permits In May 2001, Newmont ceased mining at Mesquite. Permits for a proposed expansion were obtained by Newmont in early 2002 and include a Conditional Use Permit from Imperial County, California, dated March 27, 2002 and a Record of Decision from the Bureau of Land Management dated July 16, 2002. These permits were covered by our Asset Purchase Agreement of November 7, 2003 with Newmont and were fully transferred to us in April 2004. In addition, in February 2002, Newmont prepared a reclamation and closure plan for Mesquite that was approved by the relevant governmental agencies. Reclamation and remediation activities With no new ore having been placed on the leach pad since 2001, the productive capacity of the leach pad progressively deteriorated through 2007. Although we implemented various strategies to maintain output levels and monitor solution grades being produced by the leach pad, during the third quarter of 2006 we concluded that it was no longer economic to continue leaching the Vista pad and we commenced closure operations. Rinsing of the pad was completed in late January 2007 and a 16 hole drilling program was conducted to provide information as to residual cyanide levels. Formal approval of this closure was received from the California Regional Water Quality Board in May 2007. Costs of $0.3 million relating to the Vista Pad reclamation and closure program were fully recoverable from the reimbursement account maintained with American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”). We carry out regular reviews of our plans and provisions for closure operations. The feasibility study completed in August 2006 increased the mineral reserves for the Mesquite Mine. As a result, we completed a review of the reclamation plan and the reclamation and remediation liability as at September 1, 2006. The net present value of these obligations was revised to $4.9 million. In May 2007, we announced a further increase in the mineral reserves and the net effect was reflected in an increase of $0.1 million in our provision for reclamation and remediation as at December 31, 2007. In 2008, our asset retirement obligations related to the Mesquite Mine were independently assessed by a third-party engineering firm. The impact of the assessment was a reduction of $0.2 million relating to changes in timing of future reclamation activities and substantive changes in the mine closure plan. More specifically, the substantive changes included: · Revision due to pre-2008 over-estimation of total area to be reclaimed. Mesquite's original planned closure costs were based on Newmont’s assessment; Newmont had not claimed credit for major earthwork performed over a large part of the mine (waste rock facilities), and had retained acreages which do not exist as a liability. · Downward revision in rinsing volume required for the heap leach based on recent experience. Mesquite closed the Vista heap with one-third pour volume of water pumped up and through the heap, versus one-pour volume assumed in previous cost estimates. We have now revised costs to about three-quarter pour volume, as a reasonable balance between conservatism and actual experience. Until late 2007, virtually all our gold production at Mesquite came from residual leaching operations. During this period we were operating under an Interim Management Plan (IMP) prepared and approved by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management. The plan outlined the measures to be undertaken by us, as operator of the Mesquite site, to maintain the site during the period of non-mining activity. Under the IMP, priority was given to protecting public health and safety, while maintaining the site in a condition suitable for reopening when economic conditions were favorable. Our feasibility study In March 2006 we initiated a feasibility study with a view to establishing mineable reserves at Mesquite. Specifically, the study was designed to determine whether mineralized material, that is accessible under the approved expansion permits, can be economically exploited. The study used drilling results conducted by previous holders of the property and mineral rights. The total cost of the feasibility study was approximately $0.8 million. In August 2006, Micon International Limited (“Micon”), an independent consultant of Toronto, Canada, completed the feasibility study and reported positive results. The mineral reserve estimate for the Mesquite Mine Feasibility Study was prepared by M. Hester FAusIMM, Vice President, Independent Mining Consultants, Inc. (“IMC”), Tucson AZ. IMC updated the resource block model for the Mesquite Mine in May 2006. 11 IMC later completed a life of mine production schedule to tabulate ore tons, gold grade, total material tons, and waste material tons on an annual basis. The distribution of ore and waste contained in each of the mining phases was used to develop the schedule, assuring that criteria such as continuous ore exposure, mining accessibility, and consistent material movements were met. It was the opinion of IMC that the mine production schedule defined a mineral reserve for a mining project. Measured and indicated mineral resources in the design pits were converted to proven and probable mineral reserves respectively. Oxide reserves are reported above a cut-off grade of 0.006 oz per ton, non-oxide reserves are reported above a 0.012 oz per ton cut-off grade. Based on these estimated mineable reserves, we developed a mine plan and processing design to mine and treat approximately 16 million tons per year of ore. Based on the total of 131 million tons contained in the mineable reserves, a project life of approximately 13 years was proposed, including 19 months of engineering, procurement, construction and development followed by 9½ years of mine production and 2 additional years of re-leaching. A full version of the feasibility study can be found on SEDAR at www.sedar.com and on EDGAR at www.sec.gov. Capital and Operating Costs – Updated Projections While we believe that the Feasibility Study provided an excellent basis for the long term planning for resumption and continuation of mining operations at Mesquite, we recognize that the cost structure and assumptions that underpin it are dynamic. We continue to experience a period of significant volatility in the demand for mineral resources which has had a significant impact on commodity prices and on the price and availability of many of our major cost inputs. We are continually updating our projections and assumptions based on changing circumstances. A $108.6 million expansion capital spending plan for Mesquite, including $76.5 million for acquisition of the mining fleet, was approved by our Board of Directors in late 2006. The major reason for the increase over the Feasibility Study estimate of $97.9 million was our decision to source haul trucks that would meet California’s stringent environmental standards. The spending on the program to date was approximately $111 million at December 31, 2008. The cost of sales per ounce(1) of $508 for 2008 was higher than previously anticipated as a result of higher fuel costs through the majority of the year, unexpected maintenance expenses related to the truck and shovel fleet and the production of fewer gold ounces. Fewer ounces were produced due to lower than expected truck and shovel availability, increased stripping in late 2008 resulting from the Improved Mine Plan and lower than expected benefit from secondary and tertiary leaching as the second lift was placed on the pad later than expected. In late 2008 and early 2009, the Company has worked to control costs going forward. We have hedged approximately 50% of our estimated diesel fuel requirements in each of 2009 and 2010. In addition, we have procured and will continue to procure radial tires for the truck fleet; the radial tires are less expensive and better performing than the bias ply tires that were available in the market during 2008. The radial tires also provide the ability for the trucks to travel faster with increased payloads creating the potential to reduce operating costs. Production for 2009 is forecast between 140,000 – 150,000 ounces of gold at a cost of sales of $530 - $540 (1) per ounce. Included in this cost estimate are approximately $11 million, or $75 per ounce, in costs related to high cost inventory on the leach pad at December 31, 2008 being replaced by lower cost inventory at December 31, 2009. These costs were incurred in fiscal 2008 and therefore do not impact 2009 cash flow. Production for 2010 is expected to be approximately 175,000 ounces at cost of sales of approximately $400(1) per ounce. (1) Cost of sales per ounce is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as cost of sales per the Company’s financial statements (mine operating costs plus royalties) divided by the number of ounces sold. Mineral Resources and Reserves In August 2006, we announced the results of our Feasibility Study estimating a proven and probable reserve of 2.36 million ounces based on a gold price of US $450 per ounce. Measured and indicated mineral resources (inclusive of mineral reserves), were estimated to be 3.6 million ounces based on a US $500 per ounce gold price. In March 2007, we announced that we had increased proven and probable reserves at Mesquite to 2.77 million ounces. Estimated measured and indicated resources (inclusive of reserves) also increased to 3.9 million ounces. Approximately 50% of the reserve increase was attributable to assay results from a drilling program of 27 holes at the Brownie Hill area of the mine which converted inferred oxide resources to proven and probable reserves, and the remaining 50% was attributable to increased gold price assumptions: from US $450 to US $500 per ounce for reserves and US $ 500 to US $600 for resources. As at December 31, 2007, proven and probable reserves were estimated to be 2.76 million ounces, reflecting minor production depletion of the March 2007 reserve base. Estimated measured and indicated mineral resources (exclusive of mineral reserves) increased to 4.3 million ounces. 12 The December 31, 2007 resource and reserve estimate included all results from 125 exploration drill holes completed on the project since 2006. The gold price assumption for mineral reserves remained unchanged relative to the March estimate at US $500 per ounce. The gold price assumption for mineral resources was increased to US $650 per ounce. Measured and indicated mineral resources increased by approximately 400,000 ounces, equally attributable to the additional drilling results and the increase in gold price. As at December 31, 2008, proven and probable reserves were estimated to be 2.57 million ounces, a decrease of 0.20 million ounces, reflecting production depletion through the end of December 2008. The gold price assumption for mineral reserves remained unchanged relative to the December 2007 estimate at US $500 per ounce. Estimated measured and indicated resources (inclusive of mineral reserves) for the project as at December 31, 2008 were estimated to be 4.1 million ounces with the decrease reflecting production depletion from the December 31, 2007 estimate. The majority of the data used to estimate the December 31, 2008 resources and reserves was previously reviewed and verified by IMC as part of the 2006 Feasibility Study and a description of the procedures used is included in the Mesquite Gold Project Technical Report dated May 26, 2006. Data collected since filing of said Technical Report has been reviewed and verified by W. Hanson, P.Geo., Vice President of Mine Development, a “qualified person” under Canada National Instrument 43-101. Mesquite Mineral Reserves and Resources (1) (4) (6) December 31, 2008 Mineral Reserves Grade Class Type Tons (x 1,000) (2) (Au ozs /ton) Ounces Metallurgical Recovery (3) Proven Oxide 91,982 0.015 1,413,000 75-80 % Non oxide 16,429 0.023 386,000 35-40 % Subtotal 108,411 0.017 1,799,000 Probable Oxide 35,287 0.017 599,000 75-80 % Non oxide 7,914 0.022 176,000 35-40 % Subtotal 43,201 0.018 775,000 Proven & Probable Total 151,612 0.017 2,574,000 Mineral Resources (4) (5) (6) (Exclusive of Reserves) Tons Grade Class Type (x 1,000) (2) (Au ozs/ton) Measured Oxide — — Non oxide 4,707 0.025 Subtotal 4,707 0.025 Indicated Oxide 63,626 0.011 Non oxide 32,344 0.021 Subtotal 95,970 0.015 Measured & Indicated Total 100,676 0.015 Inferred Oxide 4,958 0.013 Non oxide 4,798 0.022 Inferred Total 9,756 0.018 13 (1) The term “reserve” means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. (2) Tonnages include allowances for losses resulting from mining methods. Tonnages are rounded to the nearest 1,000. (3) Ounces are estimates of metal contained in ore tonnages and do not include allowances for processing losses. Metallurgical recovery rates represent the estimated amount of metal to be recovered through metallurgical extraction processes. Ounces are rounded to the nearest 1,000. (4) Mineral resources and mineral reserves are classified in accordance with the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum’s (CIM) “Standards on Mineral Resources and Reserves, Definitions and Guidelines”. The mineral reserves disclosed above also meet the definition of reserves as defined under the United States Securities Commission Industry Guide 7. (5) CAUTIONARY NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS CONCERNING MEASURED, INDICATED AND INFERRED MINERAL RESOURCES: These terms are required by the CIM’s “Standards on Mineral Resources and Reserves, Definitions and Guidelines”. U.S. INVESTORS ARE CAUTIONED NOT TO ASSUME THAT ALL OR ANY PART OF THE STATED MINERAL RESOURCES WILL BE CONVERTED INTO RESERVES. (6) The mineral resource and reserve estimates set out above were prepared under the supervision of Mr. W. Hanson, P.Geo., Vice-President of Mine Development, Western Goldfields Inc., who is a “qualified person” under Canadian National Instrument 43-101. The term “economically,” as used in the definition of reserve, means that profitable extraction or production has been established or analytically demonstrated in a full feasibility study to be viable and justifiable under reasonable investment and market assumptions. The term “legally,” as used in the definition of reserve, does not imply that all permits needed for mining and processing have been obtained or that other legal issues have been completely resolved. However, for a reserve to exist, we must have a justifiable expectation, based on applicable laws and regulations, that issuance of permits or resolution of legal issues necessary for mining and processing at the Mesquite Mine will be accomplished in the ordinary course and in a timeframe consistent with our current mine plan. The Company’s disclosure includes the terms mineral resources and mineral reserves, as defined by the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum’s Standards on Mineral Resources and Reserves. The company’s disclosure also meets the definition of reserves, proven reserves, and probable reserves as defined by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission’s Industry Guide 7. 14 Exploration and environmental matters Our exploration, production and processing operations are extensively regulated under various U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of air and water quality, hazardous waste management and mine reclamation. These laws and regulations are subject to change and could substantially increase our liability or the costs of compliance. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. In addition, whenever a previously unrecognized remediation claim becomes known or a previously estimated cost is increased, the additional costs could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. We believe that we operate Mesquite in compliance with all local, state and federal regulations. Stipulations in permits and approvals issued in respect of the Mine further define the site requirements. Based on our mode of operations, compliance with local, state and federal regulations relating to the protection of the environment is expected to require expenditures of approximately $0.3 million in 2009. On November 7, 2003, we secured a bonding and insurance plan through American International Specialty Lines Insurance Company (“AIG Insurance”) in respect of the operations and certain closure liabilities at Mesquite. We paid the insurance company initial premiums of $7.7 million, comprising $6.0 million in respect of the net present value of expected reclamation costs and $1.7 million for an excess liability policy covering pollution and reclamation obligations up to $14.0 million. The insurance company has provided a series of environmental insurance programs designed to cap our liability for reclamation and closure costs, including cost overruns as a result of unexpected contamination, increased costs and legislative changes. The plan provided $8.7 million in bonds in favor of government agencies. As a result of increases in proven and probable reserves in August 2006 and March 2007, which increased the life of the mine by a total of two years, we agreed with AIG Insurance and the regulatory agencies to revisions in our reclamation cost estimates. As a result, in May 2007 the bonding program was increased by $2.6 million to $11.3 million, and we were required to place an additional $2.1 million in the reimbursement account. There were no additional changes to the program in 2008. The insurance program covers closure and reclamation risk in excess of the amount covered by the reimbursement account with AIG Insurance, to an aggregate limit of $17.5 million (2007 - $8.7 million), and expires November 7, 2020. During 2007, the program limit and term were increased from $14.0 million and November 7, 2014 respectively. The insurance program also covers pollution and remediation risk up to $10.0 million. Coverages pertaining to existing conditions and new conditions expire on November 7, 2013 and November 7, 2009 respectively. During 2007, the program limit was increased from $5.0 million. Once closure of the heap leach pad covered by the bonds has started, we submit claims to the insurer to release funds from the reimbursement account to pay for the reclamation and closure expenditures as they are incurred. Any revenue from the sale of material is to our account and any gains from cost savings in the actual program versus the bonded amount will be released to us when the project bonding is released. Competition While a market for our product is always assured, we nevertheless face competitive pressures in all aspects of our activities, including: the sourcing of investment capital, the acquisition of economically attractive exploration properties and existing mineral resources, attracting and retaining a skilled and experienced workforce, and acquiring raw materials, capital equipment and technical resources on an economic and timely basis. Our competitors include large international mining companies, independent producers and numerous small companies and individuals, many of whom may have greater financial, technical and other resources at their disposal. In general, companies producing from properties with a higher grade of recoverable mineral or which are more readily mineable are at a competitive advantage in that the cost of production of the final mineral product is lower. Mines have limited lives and as a result, in the future we may identify and try to acquire new exploration properties. There is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available in the United States where we would consider conducting exploration activities. As a result of competitive pressures from other mining companies, we may be unable to acquire attractive new mining properties on terms that we consider acceptable. Employees As of March 5, 2009, we had 235 employees, including our five executive officers. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good. 15 Insurance We have the following insurance coverages which are effective until November 7, 2009: Policy Type Limit Umbrella Liability $ 25,000,000 Commercial General Liability 2,000,000 Directors and Officers Liability 15,000,000 Business Automotive 1,000,000 Workers Compensation $ 2,000,000 In addition we have the following insurance coverages which are effective until the dates noted: Expiry Policy Type Date Limit Commercial Property / Builders’ Risk (1) Jun. 1, 2009 $ 100,000,000 Fiduciary Liability Nov. 7, 2009 1,000,000 Commercial Crime Jan.12, 2010 3,000,000 Pollution Legal Liability (2) Nov. 7, 2013 10,000,000 Reclamation Costs Policy Nov. 7, 2020 $ 17,500,000 (1) Includes $10,000,000 Business Interruption. (2) Includes $5,000,000 excess coverage for new conditions and pre-existing conditions expiring Nov.7, 2009 and Nov.7, 2013, respectively. We believe that we maintain insurance at levels that are consistent with industry standards and sufficient for companies of our size and scope. Future landfill development When Mesquite was owned by Hanson Natural Resource Company (“HNRC”), a permanent landfill facility was permitted on a portion of the lands occupying the south-west sector of the property. The lands on which portions of the landfill were to be constructed were originally administered by the BLM and were subsequently acquired by HNRC by way of a land “swap”. In 1993, a Mineral Lease and Landfill Facilities Agreement (“the Landfill Agreement”) was signed between HNRC on the one hand and Hospah Coal Company (“Hospah”), a subsidiary of Newmont, and Santa Fe on the other. The LACSD is now the successor to HNRC and we assumed the rights and obligations of Hospah / Santa Fe / Newmont when we acquired the entire Mesquite operations on November 9, 2003. The Landfill Agreement sets out the parties’ respective rights and obligations with respect to real property, overburden, and ore material. The general objective of the Landfill Agreement is to enable us to freely and profitably develop and operate the Mine, and for LACSD to freely and profitably operate the landfill. This will be accomplished by: · cooperation and coordination between the parties; · avoidance and minimization of conflicts arising through the respective operations; · ensuring that one party’s operations do not result in greater costs for the other party; · joint utilization of certain properties, facilities and resources; · mutual benefit through efficient and thorough use of resources, including recycling of overburden and spent ore, and optimization of efficiency, capabilities and profitability of the parties’ respective operations. Under the Agreement we have the right to explore for, mine, extract, process, market and sell ore, and otherwise conduct mining and processing activities, anywhere on the property for an initial period through 2024 with automatic extensions until 2078. LACSD began active landfill operations in late 2008 transporting refuse from Los Angeles County to the landfill site at Mesquite. 16 Title and liabilities - real property Under the 1993 Agreement, LACSD has retained all reclamation and environmental responsibilities as of the closing date which were legally required to be completed and performed with respect to the Hospah owned property (as distinguished from overburden and ore material) and the Santa Fe leased property prior to that date. Title and liabilities - overburden Title to existing overburden and overburden stockpiles at Mesquite as at the date of the 1993 Agreement with LACSD was transferred to LACSD. Ownership of overburden material placed on the leased property after that date transfers to LACSD on its placement. We have assumed all reclamation and environmental responsibilities with respect to overburden existing as of the closing date of the 1993 Agreement and incurred after that date. The agreement makes provision for us to use material in connection with our mining operations and for reimbursement to us of any incremental costs incurred in moving material to accommodate LACSD operations. Title and liabilities - ore, spent ore and associated materials (“Ore Material”) We acquired the ore material that was on the leach pad on the lease property at the date of the 1993 Agreement, but LACSD has retained reclamation and environmental responsibilities up to that date. Ownership of the underlying pad and real property remains with LACSD, subject to the mining lease. Ownership of ore material placed on the pad after the 1993 Agreement belongs to us and we retain reclamation and environmental responsibilities. The 1993 Agreement provides that we are to locate any new leach pad and stockpiled ore on the leased property and also on the LACSD owned property if necessary for efficient treatment of ore. We are obligated to rinse and neutralize spent ore in accordance with the approved reclamation plan and certify this fact to our regulators. On acceptance of this certification by LACSD, the leach pad and real property involved will then be eliminated from our lease and the title to the spent ore will be conveyed to LACSD. If LACSD requires rinsing and neutralization beyond applicable licenses and laws, it will reimburse us for our incremental costs, with any additional gold recovery being used as an offset. If we are operationally unable to perform supplementary rinsing and neutralizing, LACSD can do this at its expense and retain any additional gold recovery. LACSD may at its cost remove rinsed and certified spent ore, which has been conveyed to it, from the pad for purposes of the landfill. It will then assume reclamation and environmental responsibilities for this material and reimburse us for any incremental cost as a result of such removal. LACSD will assume reclamation and environmental responsibilities for the leach pad and associated real property only to the extent actually occupied by LACSD and incorporated by construction into the landfill project. LACSD has the right to terminate the lease in respect of any leach pad and the associated real property on giving reasonable advance notice (1) after ore on the pad has reached design load capacity and further leaching is not economic; or (2) more than five years following cessation of regular leaching; in which event LACSD will pay us any damages in connection with the loss of prospective profits from recoverable gold left on the pad, according to calculations contained in the 1993 Agreement. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K and other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission include the risks described below. You should also refer to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the financial statements and accompanying notes thereto. Risks Related To Our Operations If we should experience significant net operating losses, we may need additional financing to fund our operations, which may not be available to us. We emerged from dormancy in 1999 to pursue mineral exploration and development opportunities, and we have a limited operating history in our current form. Since we reorganized our business in 2003, we have incurred operating costs in each quarter but only began to generate any revenue in January 2004. With the resumption of mining operations in mid 2007 and gold production from new ore beginning in January 2008 we expect to generate positive cash flow in 2009 and beyond, however, we have a cumulative deficit in shareholders’ equity of approximately $61.6 million as at December 31, 2008. To date we have been largely dependent on equity and debt financing to carry out our expansion plans at Mesquite. If our operations do not generate positive cash flow in future, additional financing may not be available when needed or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional financing when necessary, we may have to delay our exploration, development and production efforts or any property acquisitions or be forced to cease operations. 17 Exploration and production may not prove successful, will involve risks and have no guaranteed outcome. Although the resumption of mining operations at Mesquite was based on a positive feasibility study incorporating substantial volumes of drilling data, our business operations are subject to risks and hazards inherent in the mining industry. The reactivation of the Mine and the exploration for additional reserves involve significant risks that even a combination of careful evaluation, experience and knowledge may not eliminate. Our exploration and production may be hampered by mining, heritage and environmental legislation, industrial accidents, industrial disputes, cost overruns, land claims and compensation and other unforeseen contingencies. Our success also depends on the delineation of economically recoverable reserves, the availability and cost of required development capital, movement in the price of commodities, as well as obtaining all necessary consents and approvals for the conduct of our production and exploration activities. Exploration and production at the Mesquite Mine may prove unsuccessful. Mineable reserves may become depleted resulting in a reduction of the value of those tenements and a diminution in our cash flow and cash reserves as well as possible relinquishment of the exploration and mining tenements. Risks involved in mining operations include unusual and unexpected geologic formations, seismic activity, rock bursts, cave-ins, flooding and other conditions involved in the drilling and removal of any material, any of which could result in damage to life or property, environmental damage and possible legal liability. Whether income will result from the Mesquite Mine depends on the successful establishment of mining operations. Factors including costs, actual mineralization, consistency and reliability of ore grades and commodity prices affect successful project development. The reactivation and efficient operation of processing facilities, the existence of competent operational management and prudent financial administration, as well as the availability and reliability of appropriately skilled and experienced consultants also can affect successful project development. We have 235 full-time employees including our executive officers, and we are dependent on our directors, officers and third-party contractors. We have five executive officers and 230 other individuals who are full time employees. Our management team at Mesquite is comprised of six people. We also engage consultants from time to time. Although we believe that we have a talented team in place, competition for skilled personnel, notably geologists and engineers, is intense and there is no assurance that we will be able to hire and retain such personnel in the future. We are also dependent upon the efforts and abilities of our officers and directors. While much of our operations are handled by our employees, our directors and officers direct our policies and manage our operations. The loss of any one of these individuals could adversely affect our business. Our business is dependent on good labor and employment relations. Production at the Mesquite Mine is dependent upon the efforts of our employees. Relations between us and our employees may be impacted by changes in labor relations which may be introduced by, among others, employee groups, unions, and the relevant governmental authorities in whose jurisdictions we carry on business. Adverse changes in such legislation or in the relationship between us and our employees may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we do not continually place new ore in sufficient quantities and of adequate grade on the leach pad, we will be unable to achieve or maintain targeted production levels. We must continually place fresh gold-bearing ore on the leach pad to replace current production. Depleted deposits must be replaced by expanding operations on our existing property or by locating new deposits in order for us to maintain our production levels over the long term. Although our Feasibility Study and mine plan indicate that, based on certain major assumptions as to the selling price of gold and cost inputs, economic deposits will be available for the life of the Mine, there can be no assurance that this will in fact be the case. Success in exploration for gold is uncertain. There is no assurance that we will continue to find additional commercially viable mineral deposits on our property. As a result, our metals inventory may decline as minerals are produced without adequate replacement. Estimates of proven and probable deposits are uncertain, and any inaccuracies could result in the estimates being overstated. Estimates of proven and probable deposits and costs of goods sold are subject to considerable uncertainty. Such estimates are, to a large extent, based on interpretations of geologic data obtained from drill holes and other sampling techniques. Gold producers use feasibility studies to derive estimates of costs of goods sold based upon anticipated tonnage and grades of minerals to be mined and processed, the predicted configuration of the deposits, expected recovery rates, comparable facility, equipment and operating costs, and other factors. Actual costs of goods sold and economic returns on projects may differ significantly from original estimates. It could take several years from initial drilling of an area at Mesquite until it is brought into production and, during that time, the economic feasibility of exploiting the area may change. Any significant inaccuracies in the interpretations or assumptions used or changes in conditions could cause the quantities and net present value of the Mesquite deposit to be overstated. The data included and referred to in this annual report represent only estimates. You should not assume that the present value referred to in this annual report represents the current market value of our estimated deposits. 18 A shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are dependent on the availability of key supplies and equipment to carry out our mining operations. This risk has been heightened by the increased level of activity in the mining industry worldwide in recent years. The shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of production. Increased costs could affect our financial condition. Costs at the Mesquite Mine are subject to variation due to factors, such as changing ore grade, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body. Operating costs can be significantly affected by volatility in the price of various commodities, notably fuel and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production at certain operations less profitable. Increases in the price of these major cost drivers could have a significant effect on our profitability. Unforeseen title defects may result in a loss of entitlement to production and reserves. In common with many mineral properties, our ownership of Mesquite could be subject to prior undetected claims or interests. Although we performed a title review of the Mine in 2007 as a pre-condition to establishing our term loan facility, this does not guarantee or certify that an unforeseen defect in title will not arise to defeat a claim by us. If any such defect were to arise, our entitlement to the reserves associated with the Mesquite Mine could be jeopardized, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to timely execute our business plan. Our business activities are subject to extensive laws and regulations that expose us to significant compliance costs and the risk of lawsuits. Our operations and exploration and development activities are subject to extensive United States and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations governing various matters, including: · taxation; · mining royalties; · environmental protection; and · labor standards and occupational health and safety, including mine safety. The costs associated with compliance with these laws and regulations are substantial and possible future laws and regulations, changes to existing laws and regulations or more stringent enforcement of current laws and regulations by governmental authorities, could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions on or suspensions of our operations and delays in the development of the Mesquite Mine. Moreover, these laws and regulations may allow governmental authorities and private parties to bring lawsuits based upon damages to property and injury to persons resulting from the health and safety impacts of our past and current operations, and could lead to the imposition of substantial fines, penalties or other civil or criminal sanctions. Our operations are subject to numerous governmental permits which are difficult to obtain and we may not be able to obtain or renew all of the permits we require. In the ordinary course of business, we are required to obtain and renew governmental permits for the operation, re-commissioning and expansion of the Mesquite Mine. Obtaining or renewing the necessary governmental permits is a complex and time-consuming process involving costly undertakings on our part. The duration and success of our efforts to obtain and renew permits are contingent upon many variables not within our control including the interpretation of applicable requirements implemented by the permitting authority. We may not be able to obtain or renew permits that are necessary to our operations, or the cost to obtain or renew permits may exceed our estimates. Failure to comply with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations may result in injunctions, fines, suspension or revocation of permits and other penalties. There can be no assurance that we have been or will at all times be in full compliance with all such laws and regulations and with our environmental and health and safety permits or that we possess all required permits. The costs and delays associated with compliance with these laws, regulations and permits and with the permitting process could prevent us from continuing with the operation or development of Mesquite or could increase the costs of development or production and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 19 We are subject to substantial costs for compliance with environmental laws and regulation and may be subject to substantial costs for liability related to environmental claims. Our exploration, production and processing operations are extensively regulated under various U.S. federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of air and water quality, hazardous waste management, endangered species, and mine reclamation. We may be subject to future liability for environmental costs, including capital costs to comply with environmental laws, costs associated with the remediation of soil or groundwater contamination at our current and formerly owned or operated properties, and reclamation and closure costs upon cessation of our operations at the Mesquite Mine. In addition, we may be subject to reclamation costs for our claims, even if we have not conducted the activity on those properties. Further, the regulatory environment for our operations could change in ways that would substantially increase our liability or the costs of compliance and that could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. Various laws and permits require that financial assurances be in place for certain environmental and reclamation obligations and other potential liabilities. Without adequate insurance we may be unable to undertake further trenching, drilling or development or continue operations at Mesquite until we obtain financial assurances to cover potential liabilities. We have an existing insurance policy for our reclamation costs at the Mesquite Mine. During 2007 we negotiated amendments to the policy resulting in increased limits and extension of the term of coverage to reflect increases in reclamation costs due to expansion at Mesquite. Such insurance coverage will be subject to review from time to time and there can be no guarantee that it will be available on acceptable terms in the future. We are treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Even though we are organized as a Canadian corporation, we are treated as a U.S. corporation for all U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our status as a U.S. corporation generally will have implications for both non-U.S. and U.S. shareholders. If we pay dividends, any dividends paid to non-U.S. shareholders will be subject to U.S. federal tax withholding at a rate of 30% of the gross amount of the dividends, unless the rate is reduced under an applicable income tax treaty. Any dividends paid to non-Canadian shareholders, including U.S. shareholders, generally will be subject to Canadian withholding tax. Such dividends will not constitute foreign source income for U.S. shareholders, and U.S. shareholders may not be able to claim a U.S. foreign tax credit for any Canadian withholding tax unless such U.S. shareholders have sufficient other foreign source income. The gross amount of dividends will also be included in a U.S. shareholder’s gross income, which may result in double taxation to U.S. shareholders. Such dividends will not constitute foreign source income for Canadian shareholders for Canadian tax purposes, and Canadian shareholders would not be able to claim a Canadian foreign tax credit for any U.S. withholding tax. The dividends will also be subject to the standard Canadian tax rules applicable to taxable dividends received by a Canadian shareholder from a Canadian corporation and which would result in double taxation. We may be a “U.S. real property holding corporation,” which may result in significant U.S. federal income tax consequences for non-U.S. shareholders. We may be a “U.S. real property holding corporation” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we have been a U.S. real property holding corporation at any time during the shorter of the five-year period ending on the date a non-U.S. shareholder disposes of our shares or the period during which the non-U.S. shareholder has held our shares, the non-U.S. shareholder will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on any gain realized on the disposition. Such gain will be taxed at the rates applicable to U.S. persons, and the non-U.S. shareholder generally will need to file a U.S. federal income tax return. As long as our shares are considered to be “regularly traded” on an established securities market, including the Toronto Stock Exchange and NYSE Alternext, the U.S. tax on gain will only apply to non-U.S. shareholders who have directly or indirectly held 5% or more of our stock at any time during the shorter of the five-year period ending on the date a non-U.S. shareholder disposes of our shares or the period during which the non-U.S. shareholder has held our shares. If our stock ceases to be regularly traded on an established securities market, all non-U.S. shareholders would be taxed on any gain realized on disposition of our shares. We encourage our non-U.S. shareholders to consult with their personal tax advisors regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences to them if we are a U.S. real property holding corporation. Any capital gain resulting from the sale will not constitute foreign source income for Canadian shareholders for Canadian tax purposes, and Canadian shareholders would not be able to claim a Canadian foreign tax credit or deduction in computing income in respect of such U.S. tax. Risks Related To Our Industry If the world-wide financial crisis continues, the volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our business, including affecting the cost of new capital, our ability to refinance our scheduled debt maturities and meet our other obligations as they come due. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. The markets have exerted extreme downward pressure on stock prices and upward pressure on the cost of new debt capital and have severely restricted credit availability for most issuers. 20 The disruptions in the capital and credit markets have also resulted in higher interest rates on public issuances of debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. Continuation of these disruptions could increase our interest expense, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial position. Our access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Those financial institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. Moreover, the obligations of the financial institutions under our credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. Longer term volatility and continued disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses in the longer term. Such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. We are dependent on the price of gold, which is subject to numerous factors beyond our control. A substantial or extended decline in gold prices would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profits and cash flows. Our business is extremely dependent on the price of gold, which is affected by numerous factors beyond our control. Factors tending to put downward pressure on the price of gold include: · sales or leasing of gold by governments and central banks; · a low rate of inflation and a strong U.S. dollar; · global and regional recession or reduced economic activity; · speculative trading; · the demand for gold for industrial uses, use in jewelry, and investment; · high supply of gold from production, disinvestment, scrap and hedging; · interest rates; · sales by gold producers in forward transactions and other hedging; · the production and cost levels for gold in major gold-producing nations; and · the cost level (in local currencies) for gold in major consuming nations. Any drop in the price of gold would adversely impact our future revenues, profits and cash flows. In addition, sustained low gold prices can: · reduce revenues further by production cutbacks due to cessation of the mining of deposits or portions of deposits that have become uneconomic at the then-prevailing gold price; · halt or delay the development of new projects; and · reduce funds available for exploration, with the result that depleted minerals are not replaced. During the last five years, the average annual market price of gold has fluctuated between $406 per ounce and $872 per ounce, as shown in the table below. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 $ 406 $ 445 $ 603 $ 696 $ 872 21 Our operations may be adversely affected by risks and hazards associated with the mining industry. Our business is subject to a number of risks and hazards including adverse environmental effects, technical difficulties due to unusual or unexpected geologic formations, and pit wall failures. Such risks could result in personal injury, environmental damage, damage to and destruction of our production facility, delays in mining and liability. For some of these risks, we maintain insurance to protect against these losses at levels consistent with our historical experience and industry practice. However, we may not be able to maintain current levels of insurance, particularly if there is a significant increase in the cost of premiums. Insurance against environmental risks is generally expensive and may not continue to be available for us and other companies in our industry. Our current policies may not cover all losses. Our existing policies may not be sufficient to cover all liabilities arising under environmental law or relating to hazardous substances. Moreover, in the event that we are unable to fully pay for the cost of remedying an environmental problem, we might be required to suspend or significantly curtail operations or enter into other interim compliance measures. We have numerous competitors in the mining industry, many of whom have greater resources and technical capacity than we do and, as a result, we may be unable to effectively compete. Mineral exploration and mining is competitive in all of its phases. We compete with numerous other companies and individuals, including some with greater financial, technical and other resources than us, in the search for and the acquisition of attractive mineral properties. Our ability to operate successfully in the future will depend not only on our ability to develop the Mesquite Mine, but also on our ability to select and acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration. We may be unable to compete successfully with our competitors in acquiring such properties or prospects on terms we consider acceptable, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our future operations. Gold producers must continually obtain additional reserves. Gold producers must continually replace reserves depleted by production. Depleted reserves must be replaced by expanding known ore bodies or by locating new deposits in order for producers to maintain production levels over the long term. Exploration is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and frequently is unproductive. No assurances can be given that any of our new or ongoing exploration programs will result in new mineral producing operations. Once mineralization is discovered, it may take many years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Risks Related To Our Common shares We will likely require additional capital in the future and no assurance can be given that such capital will be available at all or available on terms acceptable to us. Although we believe that the Mesquite expansion is fully funded, in order to finance the future growth of our business, it is likely that we will need to raise further capital. The success and the pricing of any such financing will be dependent upon the prevailing market conditions at that time. If additional capital is raised by an issue of securities, this may have the effect of diluting the interests of our existing shareholders. Any debt financing, if available, may involve financial covenants that limit our operations. If we cannot obtain such additional financing, we may be required to reduce the scope of any activities that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting in accordance with the rules of the SEC could harm our business and operating results and/or result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As a public company, we are required to fully comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and, beginning in fiscal, 2008, to obtain an annual attestation from our independent auditors regarding our internal control over financial reporting in addition to our management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting. While management has designed or caused to be designed internal controls over financial reporting procedures, and has found those procedures to be effective as of December 31, 2008, upon completion of our auditor’s evaluation, we identified control weaknesses of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. At December 31, 2008 we do not have control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency or combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control may result in inaccurate reporting of our financial results or failure to prevent fraud. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in compliance with Section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. If we fail to remedy any future material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets and our stock price may be adversely affected. See “Item 9A - Controls and Procedures”. 22 All of our directors and officers may not be subject to legal process in the United States. Our directors and officers reside in Canada and the United Kingdom. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon those individuals, to bring suit against any of those individuals in the United States or to enforce in the United State courts any judgment obtained there against any of those individuals predicated upon any civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. Investors should not assume that Canadian or British courts will enforce judgments of United States federal securities courts against any director or officer residing in Canada or the United Kingdom, including judgments obtained in actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or the securities or “blue sky” laws of any state within the United States, or will enforce, in original actions, liabilities against such directors or officers predicated upon the United States federal securities laws or any such state securities or blue sky laws. We may experience volatility in our stock price. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · quarterly variations in operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · changes in market valuations of other similar companies; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant technical innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; · additions or departures of key personnel; · any deviations in net sales or in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; and · future sales of common shares. As a result of any of these factors, the market price of our shares of common shares at any given point in time may not accurately reflect our long-term value. Securities class action litigation often has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and damages and divert management’s attention and resources. Any future restatement of our financial statements may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares. In August 2006 we completed the restatement of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, and we believe they are presented in accordance with the requirements of United States generally accepted accounting principles. However, such restatements do not prevent future changes or adjustments, including additional restatements. If there were future restatements of our consolidated financial statements, such restatements may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not anticipate doing so in the future. To date, we have not paid any dividend on our shares of common shares. We believe that our cash flow can best be deployed in growing our business and we do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors, after taking into account many factors, including our operating results, financial condition, and current and anticipated cash needs. Risk Related to the Business Combination with New Gold and Operations of the Combined New Gold and Western Goldfields (the “Combined Company”) There can be no certainty that all conditions precedent to the Transaction will be satisfied. Failure to complete the Transaction could negatively impact the share price of Western Goldfields or otherwise adversely affect our business. The completion of the Transaction is subject to a number of conditions precedent, certain of which are outside our control, including receipt of shareholder, court and regulatory approvals. There can be no certainty, nor can we provide any assurance, that these conditions will be satisfied or, if satisfied, when they will be satisfied. If the Transaction is not completed, the market price of our common shares may decline to the extent that the market price reflects a market assumption that the Transaction will be completed. If the Transaction is not approved and or if we decide to seek another merger or business combination, there can be no assurance that we will be able to find a party willing to pay an equivalent or more attractive price than the consideration to be paid pursuant to the Transaction. 23 Certain costs related to the Transaction, such as legal, accounting and certain financial advisor fees, must be paid by Western Goldfields even if the Transaction is not completed. If the Transaction is not completed, we may also be required to pay a termination fee of Cdn. $8.8 million or Cdn. $0.75 million as an expenses payment in the Transaction is not approved by our shareholders. Risks associated with the fixed consideration. Pursuant to the provisions of the agreement with respect to the Transaction, each of our common share will be exchanged for one New Gold common share and a nominal cash consideration. This consideration is fixed and it will not increase or decrease due to fluctuations in the market price either of the New Gold common shares or the Western Goldfields common shares. The implied value of the consideration that our shareholders will receive pursuant to the Transaction will depend on the market price of the New Gold common shares on the effective date of the Transaction. If the market price of the New Gold common shares increases or decreases, the value of the consideration that our shareholders receive pursuant to the Transaction will correspondingly increase or decrease. There can be no assurance that the market price of the New Gold common shares on the effective date of the Transaction will not be lower than the market price of such shares on the date hereof. In addition, the number of New Gold common shares being issued in connection with the Transaction will not change despite decreases or increases in the market price of our common shares. Many of the factors that affect the market price of the New Gold common shares and our common shares are beyond the control of New Gold and Western Goldfields, respectively. These factors include fluctuations in commodity prices (most importantly gold), fluctuations in currency exchange rates, changes in the regulatory environment, adverse political developments, prevailing conditions in the capital markets and interest rate fluctuations. Uncertainties associated with the Transaction. The Transaction will involve the integration of companies that previously operated independently. An important factor in the success of the Transaction will be the ability of the management team of the Combined Company to integrate all or part of the operations, systems, technologies and personnel of New Gold and Western Goldfields following the completion of the transaction. The Transaction and/or the integration of the two businesses may result in unanticipated operational problems and interruptions, expenses and liabilities, the diversion of management attention and the loss of key employees, customers or suppliers. There can be no assurance that the Transaction and business integration will be successful or that the combination will not adversely affect the business, financial condition or operating results of the Combined Company. In addition, Combined Company may incur costs related to the Transaction and related to integrating the two companies. There can be no assurance that Combined Company will not incur additional material costs in subsequent quarters to reflect additional costs associated with the Transaction or that that the benefits expected from the Transaction will be realized. The Termination Fee provided under the Arrangement Agreement governing the terms of the Transaction may discourage other parties from attempting to acquire us. Under the business combination agreement with New Gold, we are required to pay a termination fee of Cdn$8.8 million in the event the agreement is terminated in certain circumstances. This termination fee may discourage other parties from attempting to acquire our company, even if those parties would otherwise be willing to offer greater value to our shareholders than that offered by New Gold under the Transaction. Risk Factors Regarding New Gold and its business. The Combined Company will be subject to most if not all of the risk factors currently affecting New Gold and its business and operations. Readers should review the disclosure documents filed by New Gold on www.sedar.com in order to become informed with respect to the business, operations and risk factors of New Gold. 24 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 