Item 1A. Risk FactorsTravelport and its controlling holders control us and may have strategic interests that differ from ours or the interests of our other stockholders.Currently, Travelport and investment funds that own or control Travelport's ultimate parent company beneficially own approximately 53% of our outstanding common stock and therefore indirectly control us. Moreover, our certificate of incorporation provides that Travelport has a variety of rights, including the right to approve all nominees for our Board of 13Table of ContentsDirectors. Travelport and its controlling holders own sufficient shares to determine the outcome of any actions requiring the approval of our stockholders, including adopting most amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approving or rejecting proposed mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets.The interests of Travelport's controlling holders may differ from those of our public stockholders in material respects. Travelport's controlling holders and their affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies and maximizing the return on those investments. They currently have, and may from time to time in the future acquire, interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or our suppliers or customers or firms with which we do business, such as the Travelport GDSs. In addition, Travelport's interests may differ from ours particularly in the context of our respective arrangements with suppliers. During the term of our current GDS service agreement with Travelport (the “Travelport GDS Service Agreement”), which ends December 31, 2014, we are limited in our ability to utilize alternative GDS options or direct connections with suppliers. If Travelport alters its commercial relationships with a supplier that is also a suppliers of ours, these actions could make us a less attractive distribution channel to that supplier, who could attempt to terminate or renegotiate its agreements with us, potentially placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other OTCs. See “We are dependent on Travelport for our GDS services” below. In addition, Travelport's suppliers, many of which are also major suppliers to us, may seek to exert commercial leverage over us in an effort to obtain concessions from Travelport, which could negatively affect our access to travel offerings and adversely affect our business and operating results. In recognition of the fact that Travelport's interests may differ from ours, our Audit Committee, in accordance with applicable listing and regulatory requirements and principles of good corporate governance, takes an active role in reviewing and approving any agreement involving more than $120,000 of payments or receipts in which Travelport (or any other related party) has an interest (such as any renewal or replacement of the Travelport GDS Service Agreement).As a practical matter, Travelport and its controlling holders will be able to exert significant influence and even control over matters put to a vote of our stockholders so long as they continue to indirectly own a significant amount of our outstanding voting stock, even if that amount is less than 50%.Actual or potential conflicts of interest may develop between our management and directors as well as the management and directors of Travelport.Jeff Clarke serves as Chairman of our Board of Directors and is the Chairman of the Travelport Board of Directors. Martin J. Brand, who is a Managing Director at The Blackstone Group, currently serves on the Board of Directors of Travelport and serves on our Board of Directors. The fact that Mr. Clarke and Mr. Brand hold positions with Travelport and us could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when they face decisions that may affect two or more of these entities. In addition, Jill A. Greenthal and Robert L. Friedman, who are Senior Advisors in the Private Equity Group of The Blackstone Group, currently serve on our Board of Directors. Affiliates of The Blackstone Group exercise control over Travelport's ultimate parent company and therefore, the fact that Ms. Greenthal and Mr. Friedman hold positions with The Blackstone Group could create, or appear to create, a potential conflict of interest when either of them face decisions that affect both Travelport and us.Further, our certificate of incorporation provides that no officer or director of Travelport who is also an officer or director of ours may be liable to us or our stockholders for a breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity to Travelport instead of us or does not communicate information regarding a corporate opportunity to us because the officer or director has directed the corporate opportunity to Travelport. These provisions may have the effect of exacerbating the risk of conflicts of interest between Travelport and us because the provisions effectively shield an overlapping director/executive.Potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between Travelport and us regarding the terms of commercial agreements between the parties or their affiliates. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we enter into any other commercial arrangements with Travelport in the future.Our certificate of incorporation limits our ability to engage in many transactions without the consent of Travelport.Our certificate of incorporation provides Travelport with a greater degree of control and influence in the operation of our business and the management of our affairs than is typically available to a stockholder of a publicly-traded company. Until Travelport ceases to beneficially own shares entitled to 33% or more of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our then-outstanding common stock, the prior consent of Travelport is required for the following matters:14Table of Contents•any consolidation or merger of us or any of our subsidiaries with any person, other than a subsidiary;•any sale, lease, exchange or other disposition or any acquisition or investment, other than certain permitted investments, by us, other than transactions between us and our subsidiaries, or any series of related dispositions or acquisitions, except for those for which we give Travelport at least 15 days prior written notice and which involve consideration not in excess of $15.0 million in fair market value, except (1) any disposition of cash equivalents or investment grade securities or obsolete or worn out equipment and (2) the lease, assignment or sublease of any real or personal property, in each case, in the ordinary course of business;•any change in our authorized capital stock or our creation of any class or series of capital stock;•the issuance or sale by us or one of our subsidiaries of any equity securities or equity derivative securities or the adoption of any equity incentive plan, except for (1) the issuance of equity securities by us or one of our subsidiaries to Travelport or to another restricted subsidiary of Travelport and (2) the issuance by us of equity securities under our equity incentive plans in an amount not to exceed $15.0 million per year in fair market value;•the amendment of various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;•the declaration of dividends on any class of our capital stock;•the authorization of any series of preferred stock; •the creation, incurrence, assumption or guaranty by us or any of our subsidiaries of any indebtedness for borrowed money, except for (1) up to $675.0 million of indebtedness at any one time outstanding under our credit agreement and (2) up to $25.0 million of other indebtedness so long as we give Travelport at least 15 days prior written notice of the incurrence thereof;•the creation, existence or effectiveness of any consensual encumbrance or consensual restriction by us or any of our subsidiaries on (1) payment of dividends or other distributions, (2) payment of indebtedness, (3) the making of loans or advances and (4) the sale, lease or transfer of any properties or assets, in each case, to Travelport or any of its restricted subsidiaries;•any change in the number of directors on our board of directors, the establishment of any committee of the board, the determination of the members of the board or any committee of the board, and the filling of newly created memberships and vacancies on the board or any committee of the board; and•any transactions with affiliates of Travelport involving aggregate payments or consideration in excess of $10.0 million, except (1) transactions between or among Travelport or any of its restricted subsidiaries, including us; (2) the payment of reasonable and customary fees paid to, and indemnities provided for the benefit of, officers, directors, employees or consultants of Travelport, any of its direct or indirect parent companies or any of its restricted subsidiaries, including us; (3) any agreement as in effect on the date of the consummation of this offering; and (4) investments by The Blackstone Group and certain of its affiliates in our or our subsidiaries' securities so long as (i) the investment is being offered generally to other investors on the same or more favorable terms and (ii) the investment constitutes less than 5% of the proposed or outstanding issue amount of such class of securities.These restrictions could prevent us from being able to pursue transactions or relationships that would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. These restrictions could also limit stockholder value by preventing a change of control that our stockholders might consider favorable.We are dependent on Travelport for our GDS services.To varying extents, travel suppliers use GDSs to connect their products and services with travel companies, who in turn make these products and services available to travelers for booking. Under the Travelport GDS Service Agreement, which expires December 31, 2014, we are required, subject to certain exceptions, to utilize Galileo and Worldspan, which are subsidiaries of Travelport, for a significant portion of our GDS services. In addition, our contractual obligations to Travelport for GDS services limit our ability to use alternative GDS options before the agreement expires at the end of next year. As a result, if Travelport became unwilling or was unable to provide these services to us, we may not be able to transition to alternative providers in a timely or efficient manner, and our business could be materially and adversely affected.Furthermore, our Travelport GDS Service Agreement restricts our ability to use direct connection relationships with suppliers during the term of the agreement, although there are certain exceptions. If we pursue a direct connect relationship during the term of our Travelport GDS Service Agreement and Travelport disputes our ability to do so, we may become involved in a potentially costly and uncertain litigation dispute with Travelport. These contractual obligations may reduce our flexibility to implement changes to our business in response to changing economic conditions, industry trends, or technological developments. As a result, the limitations imposed by the GDS service agreement could place us at a competitive disadvantage and negatively impact our business and operating results.15Table of ContentsWe rely on Travelport to issue letters of credit on our behalf under its credit facility.As of December 31, 2012, there were $72.5 million of outstanding letters of credit issued by Travelport on our behalf. Under the Separation Agreement between Travelport and us dated as of July 25, 2007, as amended, (“the Separation Agreement”), Travelport has agreed to issue U.S. dollar-denominated letters of credit on our behalf in an aggregate amount not to exceed $75.0 million so long as Travelport and its affiliates (as defined therein) own at least 50% of our voting stock. In the event Travelport is no longer obligated or is unable to issue letters of credit on our behalf, we would be required to establish additional cash reserves, which could significantly reduce our liquidity and cash available to grow our business. We currently have a revolving credit facility, which matures in July 2013 and under which we have $11.2 million of outstanding letters of credit as of December 31, 2012, and a $25 million letter of credit facility, which terminates in September 2015 and under which we have $12.8 million of outstanding letters of credit as of December 31, 2012. The $25 million letter of credit facility requires us to hold in a collateral account through an unrestricted subsidiary cash equal to 1.03 times the outstanding letters of credit amount plus fees.We have granted Travelport perpetual licenses to use certain of our intellectual property, which could facilitate Travelport's ability to compete with us.We are party to a Master License Agreement with Travelport under which we and Travelport each have rights to use certain of the other's intellectual property. The Master License Agreement permits Travelport and its affiliates to use and, in some cases, to sublicense to third parties certain of our intellectual property, including:•our supplier link technology; •portions of ebookers' booking, search and vacation package technologies;•certain of our products and online booking tools for corporate travel;•portions of our private label vacation package technology; and•our extranet supplier connectivity functionality. Travelport and its affiliates may use these technologies as part of, or in support of, their own products or services, including in some cases to directly compete with us.The Master License Agreement permits Travelport to sublicense our intellectual property (other than our supplier link technology) to a party that is not an affiliate of Travelport, except that Travelport may not sublicense our intellectual property to a third party for a use that competes with our business, unless Travelport incorporates or uses our intellectual property with Travelport products or services to enhance or improve Travelport products or services (other than to provide our intellectual property to third parties on a standalone basis). Travelport and its affiliates are permitted to use our intellectual property to provide their own products and services to third parties that compete with us. With respect to our supplier link technology, Travelport has an unrestricted license. These Travelport rights could facilitate Travelport's, its affiliates' and third parties' ability to compete with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.We depend on our supplier and partner relationships and adverse changes in these relationships or our inability to enter into new relationships could negatively affect our access to travel offerings and reduce our revenue.We rely significantly on our relationships with hotels, airlines and other suppliers and travel partners. We enter into agreements with these suppliers and travel partners at varying times and the agreements are of varying duration. As a result, at any given point in time, one or more of these agreements may be approaching expiration or renewal. Moreover, in order to enhance the competitiveness of our offerings, we are constantly seeking to add new suppliers and travel partners. Adverse changes in any of these relationships (whether upon expiration or otherwise), or the inability to enter into new relationships, could adversely affect our revenue and could also negatively impact the availability and competitiveness of travel products offered on our websites. The significant reduction by any of our major suppliers or travel partners in their business with our companies for a sustained period of time or their complete withdrawal of doing business with us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.Globally, airlines continue to look for ways to decrease their overall costs, including the cost of distributing airline tickets through OTCs and GDSs, and to increase their control over distribution. The airlines have negotiated, and we expect they will continue to attempt to negotiate, terms more favorable to themselves from time to time when the opportunity presents itself, such as upon expiration of an agreement. If airlines are successful in obtaining more favorable terms in their agreements with us, or in the agreements between the airlines and the GDSs (including Travelport), or an airline actually terminates an 16Table of Contentsagreement with us (or Travelport), the net revenue we earn from the distribution of airline tickets would be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.For example, in late 2010, we and American Airlines (“AA”) were unable to agree to terms under which AA tickets would be marketed and distributed to our customers and thus the offering of AA tickets on the Orbitz.com and Orbitz for Business websites was discontinued. After a hiatus of several months, we resumed offering AA tickets on our sites and have continued to do so pursuant to a series of agreements between us and AA that ran through January 15, 2013. Since that date, we have continued to market and distribute AA tickets on our websites, but if we cannot reach another formal agreement with AA, the offering of AA tickets to our customers might cease again. If that were to occur, or if a similar situation were to occur with other airlines, it could reduce our access to air inventory, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other OTCs and reduce our revenues. The parent of AA has recently announced its intention to merge with US Airways Group, Inc. to effect a business combination of American Airlines and US Airways. In 2012, we signed a multi-year agreement with US Airways. We cannot predict what the effect of such a merger will be on our ongoing relationship with American Airlines or US Airways.In addition, in April 2011, AA filed a lawsuit against Travelport and us alleging that our Travelport GDS Service Agreement violates the Sherman Antitrust Act. Although the Court has dismissed this claim with prejudice, there are several other claims pending against Travelport and Orbitz. It is possible that the outcome of these claims could influence the manner in which GDSs operate, which could have significant implications for both airlines and OTCs. We are also subject to minimum segment volume thresholds and may be subject to shortfall payments to Travelport if we fail to process a certain percentage of segments through its GDSs. These minimum segment volume thresholds may limit our ability to enter into, or expand, relationships with other partners, which could negatively affect our access to travel offerings and reduce our revenue.Our business is dependent on our liquidity and our ability to access funding.If we are unable to refinance or extend our revolving credit facility or we are unable to refinance or repay our term loan by its July 2014 maturity date, we cannot be certain that other debt financing would be available to us or be available on attractive or acceptable terms. If such debt financing is not available to us or not available on attractive or acceptable terms, we may need to dispose of assets or issue equity to obtain necessary funds. Such an issuance of equity could be materially dilutive to existing stockholders. We do not know whether we will be able to take any of these actions, if necessary, on a timely basis or on terms satisfactory to us or at all. In the event that funding for the term loan is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, or we are unable to refinance or extend our revolving credit facility by its July 2013 maturity, we may be unable to take advantage of potential business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures, or to operate our business as it currently exists, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and liquidity and the value of our common stock.In addition, our liquidity could be negatively impacted in the future if any of the following events occur:•Travelport is no longer obligated or is unable to issue letters of credit on our behalf; •termination of a major supplier's participation on our websites;•decline in merchant gross bookings due to deteriorating economic conditions or other factors;•decline in standalone hotel merchant gross bookings due to a shift from the merchant model to the retail model;•changes to payment terms or other requirements imposed by vendors, suppliers or regulatory agencies, such as requiring us to provide letters of credit, cash reserves or other forms of financial security or increases in such requirements, •lower than anticipated operating cash flows, or other unanticipated events, such as unfavorable outcomes in legal proceedings, including in the case of hotel occupancy proceedings, certain jurisdictions' requirements that we provide financial security or pay an assessment to the municipality in order to challenge the assessment in court.We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could limit the manner in which we operate our business.As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $440.0 million of outstanding borrowings under our senior secured credit agreement. Our substantial level of indebtedness could:•impair our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;17Table of Contents•reduce the funds available to us for purposes such as potential acquisitions and capital expenditures because we are required to use a portion of our cash flows from operations to make debt service payments;•put us at a competitive disadvantage because we have a higher level of indebtedness than some of our competitors and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the economy or our industry, including increased competition; and•make us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse developments in our business.The credit agreement requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and not to exceed a maximum total leverage ratio. If we fail to comply with these covenants and we are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, our lenders could accelerate the maturity of all amounts outstanding under our term loan and revolving credit facility and could proceed against the collateral securing this indebtedness. If this were to occur, there is no assurance that alternative financing would be available to us or at favorable terms.In addition, restrictive covenants in our credit agreement specifically limit our ability to, among other things:•incur additional indebtedness or enter into guarantees; •enter into sale and leaseback transactions; •make new investments, loans or acquisitions; •grant or incur liens on our assets; •sell our assets; •engage in mergers, consolidations, liquidations or dissolutions;•engage in transactions with affiliates; and •make restricted payments. As a result, we may operate our business differently than if we were not subject to these covenants and restrictions.Our revenue is derived from the travel industry and prolonged substantial decreases in travel volume, particularly air travel, as well as other industry trends, have historically adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue is derived from the worldwide travel industry. As a result, our revenue is directly related to the overall level of travel activity, particularly air travel and hotel volume, and is therefore significantly impacted by declines in or disruptions to travel in the United States, Europe and the Asia Pacific region due to factors entirely outside of our control. For example, the deterioration of the capital markets and related financial crisis in the second half of 2008 negatively impacted consumer spending patterns, including spending on travel, thereby reducing demand for our products and decreasing our revenue. While we have seen improvements in the economy in recent years, economic conditions remain unstable. If economic conditions do not continue to improve, or worsen, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. Additional factors that affect our revenue include:•global security issues, political instability, acts or threats of terrorism, hostilities or war and other political issues that could adversely affect travel volume in our key regions;•epidemics or pandemics; •natural disasters, such as hurricanes, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes; •the financial condition of suppliers, including the airline and hotel industry, and the impact of their financial condition on the cost and availability of air travel and hotel rooms;•changes in airline distribution policies;•changes to regulations governing the airline and travel industry;•an increase in fuel prices affecting travel; •work stoppages or labor unrest at any of the major airlines or airports;•increased airport security that could reduce the convenience of air travel;•travelers' perceptions of the occurrence of travel related accidents or the scope, severity and timing of the other factors described above; and•changes in occupancy and room rates achieved by hotels. 18Table of ContentsIf there is a prolonged substantial decrease in travel volumes, particularly for air travel and hotel stays, for these or any other reasons, it would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if one or more of our major suppliers, including airlines and car rental companies, suffers a deterioration in its financial condition or it restructures its operations.In the past several years, several major airlines have filed for bankruptcy protection, recently exited bankruptcy, or discussed publicly the risks of bankruptcy. In addition, some of these airlines and others have merged, or discussed merging, with other airlines. In addition, the economic downturn severely impacted the automobile industry, including car rental companies. We depend on a relatively small number of airlines for a significant portion of our net revenue. Our car net revenue is also generated from a relatively small number of car rental companies. As a result of this dependence, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if the financial condition of one or more of the major airlines or car rental companies were to deteriorate or in the event of supplier consolidation in either of these industries. For example, further consolidation of one or more of the major airlines, such as the announced merger of American Airlines and US Airways could result in further capacity reductions, a reduction in the number of airline tickets available for booking on our website and increased air fares, which may have a negative impact on demand for travel products.The travel industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to effectively compete in the future.We operate in the highly competitive travel industry. Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to compete effectively against numerous competitors, including other online travel companies, traditional offline travel companies, suppliers, travel research companies, search engines and meta-search companies, several of which have significantly greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we have, as discussed below. Factors affecting our competitive success include price, availability of travel products, ability to package travel products across multiple suppliers, brand recognition, customer service and customer care, fees charged to customers, ease of use, accessibility, reliability and innovation. If we are not able to compete effectively against our competitors, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.Online travel agencies: We face significant competition from other online travel agencies, such as Priceline, Expedia, Travelocity, and their related brands, as well as other regional competitors such as Ctrip in China. We also compete with other travel agencies for both travelers and the acquisition and retention of supply.Travel suppliers:Suppliers have increasingly focused on distributing their products through their own websites. For example, some low-cost airlines, which are having increasing success in the marketplace, distribute their online supply exclusively through their own websites, and several large hotel chains have combined to establish a single online hotel-search platform, with links directly to their own websites. Delta Air Lines, Inc. in recent years eliminated sales of airline tickets through several third-party distributors, limited forward distribution of its fares to meta-search providers such as Kayak, and limited the extent to which certain fare classes may be used in the construction of multi-carrier itineraries, all in an attempt to drive customers to book directly on its website. Suppliers may offer advantages for customers to book directly, such as member-only fares, bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to customers. In response to these pressures in the past, we and other online travel companies reduced or eliminated domestic booking fees on retail airline tickets and hotel stays and removed certain change and cancellation fees. Our results of operations could be negatively affected if competitive dynamics in the industry caused us to reduce further or to eliminate the service fees we charge our customers. Search engines: We also face increasing competition from search engines like Google, Bing and Yahoo! Search. Search engines have grown in popularity and may offer comprehensive travel planning or shopping capabilities, which may drive more traffic directly to the websites of suppliers or competitors. Google appears to have increased its focus on appealing to travel customers through its launch of Google Places and Google Flights, an air-travel-specific website that promotes air suppliers' sites and not those of OTCs. In addition, Google's efforts around Google Places could lead to it favoring Google Places or a favored partner over and above our pages, which could undermine our ability to obtain prominent placement in paid or unpaid search results at a reasonable cost, or at all. In addition, we currently license our search functionality, QPX Software, from ITA Software, Inc., a subsidiary of Google. Google's ownership of ITA could result in its developing new software or other products in the future that it may not make available to us, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage.Travel meta-search engines and content aggregators: Travel meta-search websites, including Kayak.com (which entered into a merger agreement with Priceline.com in November 2012) and Trivago.com (in which Expedia has agreed to acquire a majority ownership interest), and travel research sites that have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, aggregate travel search results for a specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites. If these competitors limit our participation within their results, it could affect our traffic-generating arrangements in a negative manner. In addition, some meta-search 19Table of Contentssites, such as Kayak.com, offer users the ability to make hotel reservations directly on their websites, which may reduce the amount of traffic and transactions available to us through referrals from these sites.There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against any current, emerging and future competitors or on platforms that may emerge, or provide differentiated products and services to our customer base. Increasing competition from current and emerging competitors, the introduction of new technologies and the continued expansion of existing technologies, such as meta-search and other search engine technologies, may force us to make changes to our business models, which could affect our financial performance and liquidity. Increased competition has resulted in and may continue to result in reduced margins, as well as loss of customer, transactions and brand recognition.We rely on search engines and content providers, who may change their business models in ways that could have a negative impact on our business.We use Google and other internet search engines to generate traffic to our websites, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords. Google and other search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a user's search. These changes could negatively affect the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our websites. In addition, a significant amount of traffic is directed to our websites through our participation in pay-per-click and display advertising campaigns on search engines, meta-search sites and content properties. Pricing and operating dynamics for these traffic sources can experience rapid change, both technically and competitively. Moreover, any of these providers could, for competitive or other purposes, alter their search algorithms or results, causing our websites to place lower in search query results. If a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking, paid or unpaid, of our websites or that of our third-party distribution partners, or if competitive dynamics impact the costs or effectiveness of search engine optimization, search engine marketing or other traffic generating arrangements in a negative manner, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected, potentially to a material extent.Certain of our international subsidiaries have a history of significant operating losses, and our inability to improve their scale and profitability could adversely affect our business and results of operations.We have historically incurred significant operating losses at our international subsidiaries and may continue to experience operating losses in the future, particularly since we expect to continue to incur high levels of marketing and other expenses in order to expand our international operations. As a result, we have made, and may continue to make, significant investments in our international operations by using a portion of the cash flow generated from our domestic operations or making borrowings under our revolving credit facility. There can be no assurance that our international subsidiaries will be profitable in the future or that any profits generated by them will be sufficient to recover our investments in them.The profitability of our international subsidiaries depends to a large extent on the scale of their operations. If we fail to achieve the desired scale, we may not be able to effectively compete in the global marketplace and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.Our international operations are subject to additional risks not encountered when doing business in the United States, including foreign exchange risk, and our exposure to these risks will increase as we expand our international operations.With employees in over 25 countries outside the United States, we generated 28% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012 from our international operations. We are subject to certain risks as a result of having international operations and from having operations in multiple countries generally, including:•difficulties in staffing and managing operations due to distance, time zones, language and cultural differences, including issues associated with establishing management infrastructure in various countries;•differences and unexpected changes in local regulatory requirements and exposure to local economic conditions;•limits on our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights and increased risk of piracy;•preference of local populations for local providers; •restrictions on the repatriation of non-U.S. investments and earnings back to the United States, including withholding taxes imposed by certain foreign jurisdictions;•diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights; and•currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent we are not able to effectively mitigate or eliminate these risks, our results of operations could be adversely affected.20Table of ContentsFurther, our international operations require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international regulations, including, among others, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and the U.K.'s Bribery Act 2010. Any failure by us to adopt appropriate compliance procedures to ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions.We are dependent upon third-party systems and service providers, and any disruption or adverse change in their businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business.We currently rely on certain third-party computer systems, service providers and software companies, including the electronic central reservation systems and GDSs of the airline, hotel and car rental industries. In particular, our businesses rely on third parties to:•conduct searches for airfares; •process hotel room transactions; •process credit card payments; and •provide computer infrastructure critical to our business.In addition, we rely on a group of business process outsourcing companies located in various countries to provide us with call center and telesales services, back office administrative services such as ticketing fulfillment, hotel rate loading and quality control and information technology services, as well as financial services. Any interruption in these third-party services could have a material adverse effect on us.Further, we currently utilize GDSs, including Worldspan, Galileo and Amadeus, to process a significant portion of our bookings, and any interruption or deterioration in our GDS partners' products or services could prevent us from searching and booking airline and car rental reservations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.Our success is dependent on our ability to maintain relationships with our technology partners. In the event our arrangements with any of these third parties are impaired or terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative source of systems support on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms, which could result in significant additional costs or disruptions to our business. In addition, some of our agreements with third-party service providers can be terminated by those parties on short notice and, in many cases, provide no recourse for service interruptions. A termination of these services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We rely on information technology to operate our businesses and maintain our competitiveness, and any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could harm our business.We depend upon the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems, including technologies and systems utilized for reservations, communications, procurement and administrative systems. Certain of our businesses also utilize third-party fare search solutions and GDSs or other technologies. As our operations grow in both size and scope, we must continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer our customers enhanced products, services, features and functionality, while maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. Our future success also depends on our ability to adapt our services and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving industry standards while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to competitive service and product offerings and the changing demands of the marketplace. In particular, expanding our systems and infrastructure to meet any potential increases in business volume will require us to commit additional financial, operational and technical resources before those increases materialize, with no assurance that they actually will. Furthermore, our use of this technology could be challenged by claims that we have infringed upon the patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of others.In addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems, obtain new technologies and systems, or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as our competitors or in a cost-effective manner. Also, we may fail to achieve the benefits anticipated or required from any new technology or system, or we may be unable to devote financial resources to new technologies and systems in the future. If any of these events occur, our business could suffer.System interruptions and the lack of redundancy may cause us to lose customers or business opportunities.Our inability to maintain and improve our information technology systems and infrastructure may result in system interruptions. System interruptions and slow delivery times, unreliable service levels, prolonged or frequent service outages, or insufficient capacity may prevent us from efficiently providing services to our customers, which could result in our losing 21Table of Contentscustomers and revenue or incurring liabilities. In addition to the risks associated with inadequate maintenance or upgrading, our information technologies and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from various causes, including:•natural disasters, war and acts of terrorism; •power losses, computer systems failure, Internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator error, losses and corruption of data, and similar events;•computer viruses, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information and other physical or electronic breaches of security; and•the failure of third-party systems or services that we rely upon to maintain our own operations.We do not have backup systems for certain critical aspects of our operations. For example, if we were unable to connect to certain third-party systems, such as GDSs, due to failure of our systems, our ability to process bookings could be significantly or completely impaired. Many other systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient. In addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage or insurance limits to compensate for losses from a major interruption, and remediation may be costly and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Any extended interruption in our technologies or systems could significantly curtail our ability to conduct our businesses and generate revenue.We are involved in various legal proceedings and may experience unfavorable outcomes, which could harm us.We are involved in various legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, actions relating to intellectual property, in particular patent infringement claims against us, tax matters, employment law and other negligence, breach of contract and fraud claims, that involve claims for substantial amounts of money or for other relief or that might necessitate changes to our business or operations. The defense of these actions may be both time consuming and expensive. If any of these legal proceedings were to result in an unfavorable outcome, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, historically, our insurers have reimbursed us for a significant portion of costs we incurred to defend cases related to use or occupancy tax of hotel accommodations that some states and localities impose (“hotel occupancy tax”). We will not receive any additional insurance reimbursements in future periods as our insurance coverage has now been exhausted.We may not be effectively protecting our intellectual property, which would allow competitors to duplicate our products and services. This could make it more difficult for us to compete with them.Our success and ability to compete depend, in part, upon our technology and other intellectual property, including our brands. Among our significant assets are our software and other proprietary information and intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and patent laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect these assets. However, we have a limited number of patents, and our software and related documentation are protected principally under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection, and the laws of some jurisdictions provide less protection for our proprietary rights than the laws of the United States. We have granted Travelport an exclusive license to our supplier link technology, including our patents related to that technology. Under the exclusive license, Travelport has the first right to enforce those patents, and so we will only be able to bring actions to enforce those patents if Travelport declines to do so. Unauthorized use and misuse of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the legal remedies available to us may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by unauthorized use.Further, intellectual property challenges have been increasingly brought against members of the travel industry. These legal actions have in the past, and might in the future, result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, we may need to take legal action in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, and these enforcement actions could result in the invalidation or other impairment of intellectual property rights we assert.Our business and financial performance could be negatively impacted by adverse tax events.New sales, use, occupancy or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time. Such enactments could adversely affect our domestic and international business operations and our business and financial performance. Further, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us. These events could require us to pay additional tax amounts on a prospective or retroactive basis, as well as require us to pay fees, penalties and/or interest for past amounts deemed to be due. In addition, our revenue may decline because we may have to charge more for our products and services.22Table of ContentsWe are subject to a U.S. federal income tax examination for the 2010 tax year. While we believe that our tax provisions are appropriate, there is no assurance that the result of this or any future tax examinations would not result in additional amounts being due to taxing authorities.New, changed, modified or newly interpreted or applied tax laws could also increase our compliance, operating and other costs, as well as the costs of our products or services. Further, these events could decrease the capital we have available to operate our business. Any or all of these events could adversely impact our business and financial performance.We and other providers of travel in the online travel industry are currently subject to various lawsuits related to hotel occupancy tax in numerous jurisdictions in the United States, and other jurisdictions may be considering similar lawsuits. An adverse ruling in the existing hotel occupancy tax cases could require us to pay tax retroactively and prospectively, and possibly penalties, interest and/or fees. We have also been contacted by several municipalities or other taxing bodies concerning our possible obligation with respect to local hotel occupancy or related taxes, and certain municipalities have begun audit proceedings and some have issued assessments against us. If we are found to be subject to the hotel occupancy tax ordinance by a taxing authority and we appeal the decision in court, certain jurisdictions may attempt to require us to provide financial security or pay the assessment to the municipality in order to challenge the tax assessment in court. The proliferation of new hotel occupancy tax cases or audit proceedings could result in substantial additional defense costs. These events could also adversely impact our business and financial performance. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.”Our businesses are highly regulated, and any failure to comply with applicable regulations or any changes in those regulations could adversely affect us.We operate in a highly regulated industry both in the United States and internationally. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in or the enactment of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us, which could decrease demand for our products and services, increase costs or subject us to additional liabilities. Moreover, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. Accordingly, these regulatory authorities could prevent or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us if our practices were found not to comply with the then current regulatory or licensing requirements or any interpretation of such requirements by the regulatory authority. Our failure to comply with any of these requirements or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, the various regulatory regimes to which we are subject may conflict so that compliance with the regulatory requirements in one jurisdiction may create regulatory issues in another.Our business is subject to laws and regulations relating to our revenue generating and marketing activities, including those prohibiting unfair and deceptive advertising or practices. Our travel services are subject to regulation and laws governing the offer of travel products and services, including laws requiring us to register as a “seller of travel” in various jurisdictions and to comply with certain disclosure requirements. As an OTC that offers customers the ability to book air travel in the United States, we are also subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation, which has authority to enforce economic regulations and may assess civil penalties or challenge our operating authority.Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations may subject us to fines, penalties and potential criminal violations. Any changes to these laws or regulations or any new laws or regulations may make it more difficult for us to operate our businesses and may have a material adverse effect on our operations.We are exposed to risks associated with online commerce security and credit card fraud.The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is essential in maintaining customer and supplier confidence in our services. Substantial or ongoing security breaches, whether instigated internally or externally on our system or other Internet-based systems, could significantly harm our business. We currently require customers to guarantee their transactions with their credit cards online. We rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential customer information, including credit card numbers. It is possible that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology that we use to protect customer transaction data.We incur substantial expense to protect against and remedy security breaches and their consequences. However, our security measures may not prevent security breaches. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our remediation plan to address these potential exposures. A party (whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third party) that is able to circumvent our security systems could steal proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in our operations. Security breaches 23Table of Contentscould damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Security breaches could also cause customers and potential customers to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the demand for our products and services.Moreover, public perception concerning security and privacy on the Internet could adversely affect customers' willingness to use our websites. A publicized breach of security, even if it only affects other companies conducting business over the Internet, could inhibit the growth of the Internet and, therefore, our services as a means of conducting commercial transactions.We may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards as payment for transactions where we are the merchant of record and have established an allowance for such fraudulent purchases. If we are unable to control the amount of fraudulent chargebacks for which we are liable, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements, differing views of personal privacy rights or security breaches.In the processing of customer transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable information. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. This legislation and regulation is generally intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information, including credit card information, that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if domestic or international legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices, or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business.Travel companies have also been subjected to investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to allegedly improper disclosure of passenger information. As privacy and data protection have become more sensitive issues, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of travel data. These and other privacy concerns, including security breaches, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our ability to attract, train and retain executives and other qualified employees is critical to our results of operations and future growth.We depend substantially on the continued services and performance of our key executives, senior management and skilled personnel, particularly our professionals with experience in our industry and our information technology and systems. Any of these individuals may choose to terminate their employment with us at any time. The specialized skills we require can be difficult and time-consuming to acquire and, as a result, these skills are often in short supply. A significant period of time and expense may be required to hire and train replacement personnel when skilled personnel depart the Company. Our inability to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products and services to market or impairing the success of our operations or prospects for future growth.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.