ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this report before deciding to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks, or any other risks not described below because they are currently unknown to us or we currently deem such risks as immaterial but they later become material, actually occurs, it is likely that our business, financial condition, and operating results could be seriously harmed. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to our Business The recent global financial crisis could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The recent credit crisis and turmoil in the global financial system may have an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, these economic conditions also impact levels of commercial and consumer spending, which have recently deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and how much of an impact it will have on the global economy in general or the Chinese economy in particular. If demand for our products and services fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, our revenue and gross margin could be harmed. 14 Pollution control for China’s iron and steel sector is a relatively immature and growing sector, but we do not know how sensitive we might be to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the PRC economy which might affect demand for iron and steel pollution control equipment. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn, a recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC could significantly reduce the demand for our products and harm our business. Although compliance with environmental regulations suggests continued growth with respect to our target market, we believe that the success and growth of our business for the foreseeable future will continue to depend upon the sustained presence of clients in our target markets, primarily associated with the iron and steel industries. Our client's need to comply with government regulations extends only to the degree that they survive the current economic crisis. As such, many of our customers may be subject to budgetary constraints and our continued performance under our contracts could be jeopardized by spending reductions or budget cutbacks at these clients. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. Dalian Rino began its operations in 2003. Our limited operating history in the environmental protection industry may not provide a meaningful basis on which to evaluate our business. Although Dalian Rino’s revenues have grown rapidly since its inception, we cannot assure you that we will maintain our profitability or that we will not incur net losses in the future. We expect that our operating expenses will increase as we expand. Any significant failure to realize anticipated revenue growth could result in significant operating losses. We will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies at a similar stage of development, including our potential failure to: · maintain our cutting edge proprietary technology; · expand our product offerings and maintain the high quality of our products; · manage our expanding operations, including the integration of any future acquisitions; · obtain sufficient working capital to support our expansion and to fill customers’ orders in time; · maintain adequate control of our expenses; · implement our product development, marketing, sales, and acquisition strategies and adapt and modify them as needed; · anticipate and adapt to changing conditions in the iron and steel industry markets in which we operate as well as the impact of any changes in government regulation, mergers and acquisitions involving our competitors, technological developments and other significant competitive and market dynamics. If we are not successful in addressing any or all of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We may encounter substantial competition in our business and our failure to compete effectively may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. We believe that existing and new competitors will continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive price and performance characteristics. We expect that we will be required to continue to invest in product development and productivity improvements to compete effectively in our markets. Our competitors could develop a more efficient product or undertake more aggressive and costly marketing campaigns than ours, which may adversely affect our marketing strategies and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our major competitors may be better able than us to successfully endure downturns in our industrial sector. In periods of reduced demand for our products, we can either choose to maintain market share by reducing our selling prices to meet competition or maintain selling prices at the expense of our market share. Sales and overall profitability would be reduced in either case. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our existing markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competition. Our inability to fund our capital expenditure requirements may adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our continued growth is dependent upon our ability to raise capital from outside sources. Our ability to obtain financing will depend upon a number of factors, including: 15 · our financial condition and results of operations, · the condition of the PRC economy and the environmental protection product industry in the PRC, and · conditions in relevant financial markets As a result of slowing global economic growth, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, and other challenges currently affecting the global economy, our ability to raise financing from outside sources is adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain financing, as needed, on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, our financial position, competitive position, growth and profitability may be adversely affected. We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth Our total revenues of $192.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, representing an increase of 38.3% from the total revenues of $139.3 million for the same period ended December 31, 2008. If our business and markets continue to grow and develop, it will be necessary for us to finance and manage expansion in an orderly fashion. In addition, we may face challenges in managing expanding product offerings and in integrating acquired businesses with our own. These eventualities will increase demands on our existing management, workforce and facilities. Failure to satisfy these kinds of increased demands could interrupt or adversely affect our operations and cause production backlogs, longer product development time frames and administrative inefficiencies. If we are unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our growth strategy may be adversely impacted. An important element of our growth strategy is expected to be the pursuit of acquisitions of other businesses that increase our existing market share and expand our production capacity. However, integrating businesses involves a number of special risks, including the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations, unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations and systems, problems relating to assimilating and retaining the employees of the acquired business, accounting issues that arise in connection with the acquisition, challenges in retaining customers, and potential adverse short-term effects on operating results. In addition, we may incur debt to finance future acquisitions, and we may issue securities in connection with future acquisitions that may dilute the holdings of our current or future stockholders. If we are unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our growth strategy may be adversely impacted. Due to the large size of our projects, we may depend on a concentration of customers at a given period of time. Historically, we generate revenues from large scale projects based on long-term fixed price contracts with customers for the manufacturing and installation of customized industrial equipment. Five major customers accounted for 88% of the sales for the year ended December 31, 2007. In fiscal years 2009 and 2008, revenues generated from our top six customers accounted for 33.38% and 34.7% of our total gross revenues, respectively. Due to the size of our projects, we generally work on a limited number of projects with a limited number of customers at any given period of time. Generally, each of our projects involves the manufacturing, installation and testing of the equipment we sell. Due to the size of our projects and the length of time to complete our projects (averaging six to eight months), it appears that our revenues are generated from a limited number of customers at any given period of time. However, we do not rely on a limited number of customers for revenue generation over time, as they constantly change. Nevertheless, given the cost of our Lamella Wastewater System, Desulphurization System and Anti-Oxidation System products, we believe that for the foreseeable future we will continue to rely on large customers for a substantial portion of our gross revenues. Our inability to continue to secure and maintain a sufficient number of large customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers, as well as the financial condition and success of our customers and general economic conditions. Any significant fluctuation in price of our raw materials may have a material adverse effect on the manufacturing cost of our products. The prices of steel, electronic components and power systems, valves, machine tools, paints and welding rods, our principal raw materials, are subject to market conditions and generally we do not, and do not expect to, have long-term contracts with our suppliers for those items. While these raw materials are generally available and we have not experienced any raw material shortage in the past, we cannot assure you that the necessary materials will continue to be available to us at prices currently in effect or acceptable to us. The prices for these raw materials have varied significantly and may vary significantly in the future. Numerous factors, most of which are beyond our control, influence prices of our raw material. These factors include general economic conditions, industry capacity utilization, vendor backlogs and transportation delays and other uncertainties. We may not be able to adjust our product prices, especially in the short-term, to recover cost increases in these raw materials. Our future profitability may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to pass on higher raw material costs to our customers. 16 We may engage in future acquisitions that could dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders, cause us to incur debt and assume contingent liabilities. As part of our business strategy, we review acquisition and strategic investment prospects that we believe would complement our current product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. From time to time we review investments in new businesses and we expect to make investments in, and to acquire, businesses, products, or technologies in the future. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could: · issue equity securities which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership; · incur substantial debt; · assume contingent liabilities; or · expend significant cash. These actions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or the price of our common stock. Moreover, even if we do obtain benefits in the form of increased sales and earnings, there may be a lag between the time when the expenses associated with an acquisition are incurred and the time when we recognize such benefits. Acquisitions and investment activities also entail numerous risks, including: · difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies and/or products; · unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition or investment transaction; · the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; · the potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations; and · substantial charges for the amortization of certain purchased intangible assets, deferred stock compensation or similar items. We cannot ensure that we will be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our patents, which could harm our business and competitive position. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies. We own three patents in the PRC covering our waste water treatment technology. We also have two international invention patents pending and have applied for an additional international invention patent for our anti-oxidation technology under the International Patent Cooperation Treaty. The process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive and we cannot assure you that our patent applications will result in patents being issued, or that our existing or future issued patents will be sufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantages. We also cannot assure you that our current or potential competitors do not have, and will not obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products in either the PRC or other countries. The implementation and enforcement of PRC intellectual property laws historically has not been vigorous or consistent, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and a relative lack of developed enforcement mechanisms. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in the PRC are not as effective as in the United States and other countries. Policing the unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we might need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. Such litigation will require significant expenditures of cash and management efforts and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, competitive position, business prospects and reputation. 17 We may need additional capital to fund our future operations and, if it is not available when needed, we may need to reduce our planned development and marketing efforts, which may reduce our sales revenues .. We believe that our existing working capital and cash available from operations will enable us to meet our working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, if cash from future operations is insufficient, or if cash is used for acquisitions or other currently unanticipated uses, we may need additional capital. The development and marketing of new products and the expansion of distribution channels and associated support personnel requires a significant commitment of resources. In addition, if the markets for our products develop more slowly than anticipated, or if we fail to establish significant market share and achieve sufficient net revenues, we may continue to consume significant amounts of capital. As a result, we could be required to raise additional capital. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities could result in dilution of the shares held by existing stockholders. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt securities, such securities may provide the holders certain rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of common stockholders, and the terms of such debt could impose restrictions on our operations. We cannot assure you that additional capital, if required, will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient amounts of additional capital, we may be required to reduce the scope of our planned product development and marketing efforts, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. The PRC historically has not adopted a western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as in modern banking, computer and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Our recognition of revenue could prove inaccurate. We use percentage completion to recognize revenue. The inherent difficulty of measuring completed output in our projects prior to full completion requires us to estimate percentage completion by measuring actual inputs in a given period relative to total estimated inputs required for a project. An incorrect estimate of total inputs required for a project, or an inaccurate accounting of actual inputs in any given period could cause us to misstate revenues by a material amount. If revenues were overestimated or underestimated, net income would also be over- or underestimated, as would accounts receivable. Our accounts receivable have historically been high. We record our revenue based on percentage completion, but are paid according to contract terms which only indirectly use percentage completion, causing leads and lags between our recording of revenue and our customers’ repayment of receivables. Moreover, we sell to large steel manufacturers which require time to fulfill internal control procedures before effecting payment. Finally, performance retainages of 10% of contract value are recorded at project commissioning and remain in our accounts receivable until one year after project commissioning. These factors all combine to raise our receivables as days sales outstanding. While to date we have only recorded de minimis bad debt, we cannot guarantee that all our accounts receivable will be collected or that they will be collected in a timely manner. We may not have adequate internal accounting controls. While we have certain internal procedures in our budgeting, forecasting and in the management and allocation of funds, our internal controls may not be adequate. We are constantly striving to improve our internal accounting controls. We hope to develop an adequate internal accounting control to budget, forecast, manage and allocate our funds and account for them. There is no guarantee that such improvements will be adequate or successful or that such improvements will be carried out on a timely basis. As disclosed in Item 9A Controls and Procedures of this Annual Report, if we do not have adequate internal accounting controls, we may not be able to appropriately budget, forecast and manage our funds, we may also be unable to prepare accurate accounts on a timely basis to meet our continuing financial reporting obligations and we may not be able to satisfy our obligations under US securities laws. . Our internal controls over financial reporting was ineffective as of December 31, 2009, and management’s report was not subject to attestation by the Company’s independent auditor as to their effectiveness for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business. The Company’s management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) in Internal Control—Integrated Framework .. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Management assessed and evaluated our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 and has so far identified the material weaknesses in Item 9A Controls and Procedures of this Annual Report. As a result of the material weaknesses described above, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective as of December 31, 2009 based on the “Internal Control— Integrated Framework” set forth in COSO. Management intends to implement the following measures to remediate the material weaknesses that had a material impact on our internal control over financial reporting: · Hire finance personnel with experience with complex revenue recognition rules including accounting for multiple element contracts. 18 · Institute a formal contract review process to establish and document the revenue recognition events and methodology at the inception of revenue generating contracts. · Institute a new process for review of multiple element contracts with standardized documentation which allows for both allocation of revenue based on available objective evidence of fair value as well as the associated billing schedule. · Deliver training on revenue recognition principles to sales and operational members of our divisions. · Enhance reconciliations, analysis and related reviews for all accounts that give rise to income tax effects in the financial statements. · Hire more qualified and experienced accounting personnel to perform the month end review and closing processes as well as provide additional oversight and supervision within the accounting department. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of this assessment by our company's independent registered public accountants. We believe that the attestation requirement of management's assessment by our independent registered public accountants will first apply to our annual report for the 2010 fiscal year. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. Even though we intend to adopt measures to remediate the weaknesses that management has already identified as of December 31, 2009, there is no guarantee that these remedial measures will be effective. Our lack of familiarity with Section 404 may unduly divert management’s time and resources in executing the business plan. If, in the future, management identifies one or more material weaknesses, or our external auditors are unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, this could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, have an adverse effect on our stock price and/or subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. We may have inadvertently violated Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act and may be subject to sanctions for such violations. Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act provides that it is unlawful for a company such as ours, which has a class of securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, to directly or indirectly, including through any subsidiary, extend or maintain credit in the form of a personal loan to or for any director or executive officer of the company. Issuers violating Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act may be subject to civil sanctions, including injunctive remedies and monetary penalties, as well as criminal sanctions. The imposition of any of such sanctions on the Company may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. On December 7, 2009, the Company made a loan of approximately $3,500,000 to Mr. Dejun Zou and Ms. Jianping Qiu on an unsecured and interest free basis. As of the date of this Report, $300,000 has been repaid Mr. Zou and Mrs. Qiu are directors and officers of the Company. There was no written loan agreement entered into by the parties regarding the foregoing. The making of this loan and the continuation of such indebtedness thereafter until it is fully repaid create a contingent liability for a possible violation of Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act (Section 402(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002). Section 13(k) provides that it is unlawful for a company, such as the Company, which has a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, to directly or indirectly, including through any subsidiary, extend or maintain credit in the form of a personal loan to or for any director or executive officer of the company. Issuers violating Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act may be subject to civil sanctions, including injunctive remedies and monetary penalties, as well as criminal sanctions. The imposition of any of such sanctions on the Company may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Potential environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. To the knowledge of our management team, neither the production nor the sale of our products constitutes activities, or generates materials that create any environmental hazards or requires our business operations to comply with PRC environmental laws. Although it has not been alleged by PRC government officials that we have violated any current environmental regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not amend the current PRC environmental protection laws and regulations. Our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected if we were to be held liable for violating existing environmental regulations or if we were to increase expenditures to comply with environmental regulations affecting our operations. We rely on our Chairman and CEO, the founders of Dalian Rino for the management of our business. We depend, to a large extent, on the abilities and participation of our current management team, but have a particular reliance upon Mr. Zou Dejun our CEO, and Ms. Qiu Jianping, our Chairman of the Board. The loss of the services of Mr. Zou or Ms. Qiu, for any reason, may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We cannot assure you that the services of Mr. Zou and Ms. Qiu will continue to be available to us, or that we will be able to find a suitable replacement for either of them. We carry key man life insurance of $5.0 million each for Mr, Zou and Ms. Qiu but do not carry key man life insurance for any other key personnel. 19 We may not be able to hire and retain qualified personnel to support our growth and if we are unable to retain or hire such personnel in the future, our ability to improve our products and implement our business objectives could be adversely affected. If one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, and our business may be disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Competition for senior management and senior technology personnel is intense, the pool of qualified candidates is very limited, and we may not be able to retain the services of our senior executives or senior technology personnel, or attract and retain high-quality senior executives or senior technology personnel in the future. Any failure for us to attract or retain high-quality senior executives or senior technology personnel could materially and adversely affect our future growth and financial condition. We do not presently maintain product liability insurance, and our property and equipment insurance does not cover the full value of our property and equipment, which leaves us with exposure in the event of loss or damage to our properties or claims filed against us. We currently do not carry any product liability or other similar insurance. Unlike in the U.S. and other countries, product liability claims and lawsuits are relatively rare in the PRC. However, we cannot assure you that we would not face liability in the event of the failure of any of our products. We cannot assure you that, especially as China’s domestic consumer economy and industrial economy continues to expand, product liability exposures and litigation will not become more commonplace in the PRC, or that we will not face product liability exposure or actual liability as we expand our sales into international markets, like the United States, where product liability claims are more prevalent. Except for property and automobile insurance, we do not have other insurance such as business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in the PRC. Rapid technological changes in our industry could render our products non-competitive or obsolete and consequently affect our ability to generate revenues. The environmental protection and remediation industry is subject to rapid technological change. Our future success will depend on our ability to respond to rapidly changing technologies and improve the quality of our products. Our failure to adapt to these changes could harm our business. Our future plans to market our products require them to be innovative. If we are slow to develop new products and technologies that are attractive to and useful solutions for the PRC iron and steel industry, we may not be successful in capturing an increasingly significant share of this market. Risks Related to Doing Business in the PRC. We face the risk that changes in the policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and the profitability of such business. The PRC’s economy is in a transition from a planned economy to a market oriented economy subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set national economic development goals. Policies of the PRC government can have significant effects on economic conditions in China. The PRC government has confirmed that economic development will follow the model of a market economy, such as the United States. Under this direction, we believe that the PRC will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and business development in the PRC will follow market forces. While we believe that this trend will continue, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. Our interests may be adversely affected by changes in policies by the PRC government, including: · changes in laws, regulations or their interpretation · confiscatory taxation · restrictions on currency conversion, imports or sources of supplies · expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the PRC government has been pursuing economic reform policies for more than two decades, we cannot assure you that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting the PRC's political, economic and social life. 20 The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may harm our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, and the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We and any future subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. The restructuring of Dalian Rino may affect Dalian Rino’s existing customer relationships and result in additional transactional costs that may adversely impact our profitability. We are conducting our business out of Dalian Innomind after we completed the asset purchases and leases as contemplated in the Restructuring Agreements. The restructuring of Dalian Rino’s business through assets transfers and leases to Dalian Innomind may affect Dalian Rino’s existing customer relationships. To the extent the existing customers do not want to assign their purchase orders to a newly formed entity (i.e., Dalian Innomind) the Restructuring Agreements provide a mechanism to allow Dalian Rino to continue its operations under Dalian Innomind’s control. However, we cannot assure you that the customers will continue their business relationships with us or Dalian Rino after this complicated restructuring. Any loss of Dalian Rino’s existing customers will have an adverse impact on our revenues and net profits. Our Restructuring Agreements with Dalian Rino and its shareholders may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership and potential conflicts of interest may occur in the performance and enforcement of the Restructuring Agreements in the future. We operate our business through Dalian Innomind, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary in the PRC, and rely on the Restructuring Agreements with Dalian Rino and its shareholders to control the operations of Dalian Rino. While we own and/or lease substantially all of Dalian Rino’s manufacturing assets through Dalian Innomind, and to the extent that any aspect of Dalian Rino’s business needs to be conducted through Dalian Rino in the future, the Restructuring Agreements provide Dalian Innomind with the legal right and power to control Dalian Rino and any of its remaining assets and operations, the Restructuring Agreements may not be as effective in providing control over Dalian Rino as direct ownership. as we depend on the shareholders of Dalian Rino to perform their obligations under the Restructuring Agreements and the effective enforcement of these agreements when necessary. Consequently, if Dalian Rino or any of its shareholders fails to perform its or his respective obligations under the Restructuring Agreements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce those agreements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which may not be effective. For example, if the shareholders of Dalian Rino refuse to transfer their equity interest in Dalian Rino to us or our designee if we exercise the equity purchase option under the Restructuring Agreements, then we will have to pursue available remedies under PRC law for them to fulfill their contractual obligations. The terms of the Restructuring Agreements were negotiated between Dalian Rino and the investors in the private placement that we completed on October 5, 2007 on behalf of the Company at an arms-length, the approval of which by the Company was a condition precedent to closing of the private placement. However, there may be potential conflicts of interest in the performance and enforcement of the Restructuring Agreements because our CEO and director, Mr. Zou, who, together with his wife, are the sole beneficiaries of The Innomind Trust which 100% of Daliano Rino’s equity interest. As such, we can not assure you that Mr. Zou, in his capacity as our CEO and director, will act in the best interest of the Company when a conflict between us and Dalian Rino arises because of his ownership interest in Dalian Rino. For example, if Dalian Rino violates the Restructuring Agreement because of its failure to pay any management fee to Dalian Innomind, the fact that Mr. Zou has a 90% ownership interest in Dalian Rino may affect his decision as to whether and/or how vigorously the Company will seek to enforce its rights under the Restructuring Agreements. The Restructuring Agreements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these agreements would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce the Restructuring Agreements. If we are unable to enforce the Restructuring Agreements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our operating entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may harm our customers and the demand for our services and our products. All of our operations are conducted in the PRC and all of our revenues are generated from sales in the PRC. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot assure you that this growth will continue. Pollution control for China’s iron and steel sector is a relatively immature and growing sector, but we do not know how sensitive we might be to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the PRC economy which might affect demand for iron and steel pollution control equipment. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn, a recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC could significantly reduce the demand for our products and harm our business. Please refer to the Risk Factor entitled “The recent global financial crisis could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition” under this section for more information regarding the recent economic development and the impact on our business.” 21 Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth could lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may harm our profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credit, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. Such an austere policy can lead to a slowing of economic growth. In October 2004, the People's Bank of China, the PRC's central bank, raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade and indicated in a statement that the measure was prompted by inflationary concerns in the Chinese economy. Repeated rises in interest rates by the central bank would likely slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our products. Dalian Innomind and RINO are subject to restrictions on paying dividends and making other payments to us; therefore we might in turn be unable to pay dividends to you. We are a holding company incorporated in the State of Nevada and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than our investments in our subsidiaries and affiliates, Innomind, Dalian Innomind, Dalian Rino and the subsidiaries of Dalian Rino. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely entirely on dividend payments from Dalian Innomind, our subsidiary in China. PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiary and affiliated entity in the PRC also are required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. The PRC government also imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of the PRC. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. Furthermore, if Dalian Innomind or Dalian Rino incurs debt on its own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If we or Innomind Group are unable to receive all of the revenues from Dalian Innominds’s operations, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also in the future restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may harm your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC's political and economic conditions. As we rely entirely on revenues earned in the PRC, any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would diminish the value of the proceeds of the offering and this could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the RMB, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the RMB we convert would be reduced. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. If the PRC were to eliminate the “grandfathered” preferential tax benefits currently enjoyed by Dalian Innomind, we would have to pay more taxes in the PRC, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Recent changes in the PRC’s tax laws have, effective January 1, 2008, made wholly foreign-owned enterprises (“WFOEs”) subject to standard enterprise income tax rates, which as of January 1, 2008, will be 25%. Prior to these changes, WFOEs enjoyed tax preferences consisting of multi-year exemptions followed by a period of reduced rate taxation and ending with the application of standard tax rates. 22 Because Dalian Innomind was incorporated before the effective date of these recent tax law changes, it has been “grandfathered” into the pre-change scheme. As a consequence, as a WFOE, Dalian Innomind is entitled to: (i) a two-year exemption from enterprise income taxation beginning in its first year of operations; (ii) a 12% enterprise income tax rate for the next three years; and (iii) application of the standard enterprise income tax rate (which will be 25% as of January 1, 2008) thereafter. If the PRC were to eliminate these “grandfathered” tax preferences, Dalian Innomind would immediately be subject to the standard statutory tax rate. The loss of these preferential tax treatments and the resulting acceleration of the application of standard PRC tax rates to our business, could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Restructuring Agreements we have entered into among our subsidiaries and affiliated entities or persons may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we owe additional taxes or are ineligible for our tax exemption, or both, could substantially increase our taxes owed, and reduce our net income and the value of your investment. Dalian Innomind has purchased assets from Dalian Rino, our affiliated company, at their book value and leased the remaining assets from Dalian Rino at nominal amount. Under PRC law, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. If any of the transactions we have entered into between Dalian Innomind and Dalian RINO are found not to be on an arm’s-length basis, or to result in an unreasonable reduction in tax under PRC law, the PRC tax authorities have the authority to disallow our tax savings, adjust the profits and losses of Dalian Innomind and Dalian Rino, and assess late payment interest and penalties. A finding by the PRC tax authorities that we are ineligible for the tax savings achieved in the past, or that Dalian Rino or Dalian Innomind are ineligible for preferential tax benefits, would substantially increase our taxes owed and reduce our net income and the value of your investment. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents, if applied to us, may subject the PRC resident shareholders of us or our parent company to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary's ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) issued a public notice, the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China (the “SAFE Notice”), which requires PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of overseas equity financing involving onshore assets or equity interests held by them. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. Moreover, if the offshore special purpose company was established and owned the onshore assets or equity interests before the implementation date of the SAFE notice, a retroactive SAFE registration is required to have been completed before March 31, 2006. If any PRC shareholder of any offshore special purpose company fails to make the required SAFE registration and amendment, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore special purpose company. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. After the SAFE notice, an implementation rules on the SAFE notice was issued on May 29, 2007 which provides for implementation guidance and supplements the procedures as provided in the SAFE notice. For an offshore special purpose company which was established and owned the onshore assets or equity interests before the implementation date of the SAFE notice, a retroactive SAFE registration requirement is repeated. Due to lack of official interpretation, some of the terms and provisions of the SAFE Notice and its implementation rules remain unclear, and the implementation of the SAFE Notice by central SAFE and local SAFE branches has been inconsistent since its adoption. Based on the advice of our PRC counsel, Global Law Offices, located in Beijing, and after consultation with relevant SAFE officials, we believe that the PRC resident shareholders of our parent company, RINO International Corporation, were required to complete their respective SAFE registrations pursuant to the SAFE Notice. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how the SAFE Notice will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether the SAFE Notice and implementation rules will apply to us, we cannot predict how SAFE will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with the SAFE Notice by our or our parent company’s PRC resident shareholders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete registration procedures required by the SAFE Notice. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect shareholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our or our parent company’s PRC resident shareholders or future PRC resident shareholders to comply with the SAFE Notice, if SAFE requires it, could subject us to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiary’s ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. 23 Ambiguities in the merger and acquisition regulations implemented on September 8, 2006 relating to acquisitions of assets and equity interests of Chinese companies by foreign persons may present risks in our compliance status under the regulations. On September 8, 2006, the Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), together with several other government agencies, promulgated a comprehensive set of regulations governing the approval process by which a Chinese company may participate in an acquisition of its assets or its equity interests and by which a Chinese company may obtain public trading of its securities on a securities exchange outside the PRC. Although there was a complex series of regulations in place prior to September 8, 2006 for approval of Chinese enterprises that were administered by a combination of provincial and centralized agencies, the new regulations have largely centralized and expanded the approval process to the MOFCOM, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, the SAFE or its branch offices, the State Asset Supervision and Administration Commission, and the China Securities Regulatory Commission. Depending on the structure of the transaction as determined once a definitive agreement is executed, these regulations will require the Chinese parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the aforementioned agencies. The merger and acquisition regulations set forth many specific requirements that have to be followed, but there are still many ambiguities in the meaning of many material provisions. The transactions contemplated under the Restructuring Agreements are structured in a manner such that consummation of such transactions would not bring these transactions within the regulatory scope of the September 8, 2006 regulations. However, due to the ambiguities in the meaning of many provisions, until there has been clarification either by pronouncements, regulation or practice, there is some uncertainty in the scope of the regulations. Moreover, the ambiguities give the regulators wide latitude in the enforcement of the regulations and the transactions to which they may or may not apply. Therefore, it is not inconceivable that future issuance of new regulations and pronouncement for the purposes of clarifying the application of September 30, 2006 regulations may retroactively make it apparent that the consummation of the transactions contemplated under the Restructuring Agreements are subject to September 8, 2006 regulations and failure to obtain approval required under the September 8, 2006 regulations may cause the PRC government to take actions that adversely affect the Restructuring Agreements including requiring us to unwind the Restructuring Agreements. If this occurs, and if we do not mitigate the adverse effect to the investors’ reasonable satisfaction within 60 days of such PRC government actions, then we are required, within 30 days from the date of a written demand from the investor, to pay liquidated damages in an amount equal to the initial investment without interest and the shareholder must return the shares acquired under the agreement. If we are obligated to pay liquidated damages of the entire investment amount, we would be forced to raise more capital or incur additional debt to satisfy such obligations and our liquidity will be materially and adversely affected. If we do not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our short working capital requirements and long-term capital expenditure requirements, our operating results would be materially adversely affected which will likely adversely affect the value of our common stock. However, according to the legal opinion issued by the Company’s PRC counsel, the Restructuring Agreements and the organizational structure resulted thereunder are legal and enforceable under current PRC law and that changes to current law would need to be enacted in order for the PRC government or any of its entities to challenge the structure of the Company. Therefore, the Company believes that the chances of the restructuring structure being successfully challenged are remote. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another widespread public health problem, could adversely affect our operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in the PRC, where all of our revenue is derived, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including quarantines or closures of some of our offices that would adversely disrupt our operations. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our operations. Because our principal assets are located outside of the United States and some of our directors and all our officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to use the United States Federal securities laws to enforce your rights against us and our officers and some directors in the United States or to enforce judgments of United States courts against us or them in the PRC. All of our present officers and some of our directors reside outside of the United States. In addition, our operating subsidiary, Dalian Innomind and controlled affiliate Dalian Rino and its subsidiaries, are located in the PRC and substantially all of their assets are located outside of the United States. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the United States Federal securities laws against us in the courts of either the United States or the PRC and, even if civil judgments are obtained in courts of the United States, to enforce such judgments in PRC courts. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and directors of criminal penalties, under the United States Federal securities laws or otherwise. The PRC’s legal and judicial system may not adequately protect our business and operations and the rights of foreign investors The PRC legal and judicial system may negatively impact foreign investors. In 1982, the National People's Congress amended the Constitution of China to authorize foreign investment and guarantee the "lawful rights and interests" of foreign investors in the PRC. However, the PRC's system of laws is not yet comprehensive. The legal and judicial systems in the PRC are still rudimentary, and enforcement of existing laws is inconsistent. Many judges in the PRC lack the depth of legal training and experience that would be expected of a judge in a more developed country. Because the PRC judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing the laws that do exist, anticipation of judicial decision-making is more uncertain than would be expected in a more developed country. It may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of laws that do exist, or to obtain enforcement of the judgment of one court by a court of another jurisdiction. The PRC's legal system is based on the civil law regime, that is, it is based on written statutes; a decision by one judge does not set a legal precedent that is required to be followed by judges in other cases. In addition, the interpretation of Chinese laws may be varied to reflect domestic political changes. 24 The promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the pre-emption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors. However, the trend of legislation over the last 20 years has significantly enhanced the protection of foreign investment and allowed for more control by foreign parties of their investments in Chinese enterprises. There can be no assurance that a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or unforeseen circumstances affecting the PRC's political, economic or social life, will not affect the PRC government's ability to continue to support and pursue these reforms. Such a shift could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The practical effect of the PRC legal system on our business operations in the PRC can be viewed from two separate but intertwined considerations. First, as a matter of substantive law, the Foreign Invested Enterprise laws provide significant protection from government interference. In addition, these laws guarantee the full enjoyment of the benefits of corporate Articles and contracts to Foreign Invested Enterprise participants. These laws, however, do impose standards concerning corporate formation and governance, which are qualitatively different from the general corporation laws of the United States. Similarly, the PRC accounting laws mandate accounting practices, which are not consistent with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. PRC’s accounting laws require that an annual "statutory audit" be performed in accordance with PRC accounting standards and that the books of account of Foreign Invested Enterprises are maintained in accordance with Chinese accounting laws. Article 14 of the People's Republic of China Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise Law requires a wholly foreign-owned enterprise to submit certain periodic fiscal reports and statements to designated financial and tax authorities, at the risk of business license revocation. While the enforcement of substantive rights may appear less clear than United States procedures, the Foreign Invested Enterprises and Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprises are Chinese registered companies, which enjoy the same status as other Chinese registered companies in business-to-business dispute resolution. Any award rendered by an arbitration tribunal is enforceable in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards (1958). Therefore, as a practical matter, although no assurances can be given, the Chinese legal infrastructure, while different in operation from its United States counterpart, should not present any significant impediment to the operation of Foreign Invested Enterprises. We may face obstacles from the communist system in the PRC. Foreign companies conducting operations in PRC face significant political, economic and legal risks. The Communist regime in the PRC, which includes a cumbersome bureaucracy, may hinder Western investment. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. The PRC historically has not adopted a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as in modern banking, computer and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as will be required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Please refer to the risk factors entitled “ We may not have adequate internal accounting controls. While we have certain internal procedures in our budgeting, forecasting and in the management and allocation of funds, our internal controls may not be adequate,” and “Our internal controls over financial reporting was ineffective as of December 31, 2008, and management’s report was not subject to attestation by the Company’s independent auditor as to their effectiveness for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business” for more information regarding our financial controls and management. The relative lack of public company experience of our management team may put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our management team lacks public company experience, which could impair our ability to comply with legal and regulatory requirements such as those imposed by Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The individuals who now constitute our senior management have never had responsibility for managing a publicly traded company. Such responsibilities include complying with federal securities laws and making required disclosures on a timely basis. Our senior management may not be able to implement programs and policies in an effective and timely manner that adequately responds to such increased legal, regulatory compliance and reporting requirements. Our failure to comply with all applicable requirements could lead to the imposition of fines and penalties and distract our management from attending to the growth of our business. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our officers, directors and affiliates control us through their positions and stock ownership and their interests may differ from other stockholders. Our officers and directors beneficially own approximately 62.5% of our Common Stock. As a result, they are able to control the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions, including business combinations. The interests of our directors and officers may differ from other stockholders. Furthermore, the current ratios of ownership of our common stock reduce the public float and liquidity of our common stock which can, in turn, affect the market price of our common stock. 25 We are not likely to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future but will review this policy as circumstances dictate. Should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiary. In addition, our operating subsidiary, Dalian Innomind, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on its ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. We are authorized to issue "blank check" preferred stock, which, if issued without stockholder approval, may adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock. We are authorized to issue 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, none of which have been issued. Our Board of Directors is authorized under our Articles of Incorporation to provide for the issuance of shares of preferred stock by resolution, and by filing a certificate of designations under Nevada law, to fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series of preferred stock and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof without any further vote or action by the stockholders. Any shares of preferred stock so issued are likely to have priority over our common stock with respect to dividend or liquidation rights. In the event of issuance, the preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control, which could have the effect of discouraging bids for the Company and thereby prevent stockholders from receiving the maximum value for their shares. We have no present intention to issue any shares of our preferred stock in order to discourage or delay a change of control or for any other reason. However, there can be no assurance that preferred stock will not be issued at some time in the future. We are responsible for the indemnification of our officers and directors. Our Bylaws provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against costs and expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with or activities on our behalf. Consequently, we may be required to expend substantial funds to satisfy these indemnity obligations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 