D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Us and the PV Industry Adverse economic conditions in our target markets as well as an increased supply of PV modules has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Demand for our products substantially depends on the general economic conditions in our target markets. The economies of many countries around the world, including those in our target markets, experienced a period of slow economic growth and adverse credit market conditions as a result of the global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009. As PV system projects generally require significant upfront capital expenditures, our customers have historically relied on financing for the purchase of our products. As a result of weakened macroeconomic conditions and in particular the adverse credit market conditions, our customers experienced difficulty in obtaining financing on attractive terms or at all. As a result, the growth in demand for PV modules has declined significantly since the fourth quarter of 2008. Although the credit market conditions have improved since the second quarter of 2009, which has contributed to an overall increase in the demand for our products, we cannot assure you that demand for our PV modules will continue to increase or remain at its current level, or such demand will not decline again in the future. In addition, the supply of PV modules has increased due to production capacity expansion by PV module manufacturers worldwide in recent years which, together with weakened demand for PV modules, resulted in a decline of prices of PV modules beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008. The average selling price of our PV modules decreased significantly since the fourth quarter of 2008. While we have achieved cost savings through vertical integration, economies of scale and technological improvements, the decrease in the average selling price of our PV modules primarily caused our gross profit margin to decrease significantly from 24.1% in the third quarter of 2008 to 14.8% in the fourth quarter of 2008. As the demand for our products increased along with the improved macroeconomic environment and due to our continuing efforts to achieve additional cost savings, we were able to improve our gross profit margin from 23.6% in 2009 to 33.2% in 2010. However, there can be no assurance that the demand for our products will continue to increase or remain at the current level in the near future or our cost saving efforts will continue to improve our profitability or prevent our profit margin from further declining under the current macroeconomic conditions. If we experience declines in demand for our products or decreases in the average selling price of our PV modules again in the future, our financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. The high cost or inaccessibility of financing for solar energy projects has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. If financing for solar energy projects continues to be more costly than the recent years or becomes inaccessible, the growth of the market for solar energy applications may be materially and adversely affected, which could adversely affect demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. For example, the average selling price of our PV modules decreased significantly from the fourth quarter of 2008 to the second quarter of 2009, partly due to the tightened credit for PV system project financing as the result of the recent global financial crisis. In addition, rising interest rates could render existing financings more expensive, as well as present an obstacle for potential financings that would otherwise spur the growth of the PV industry. Furthermore, some countries, government agencies and the private sector have, from time to time, provided subsidies or financing on preferred terms for rural electrification programs. Some of our products are used in “off-grid” solar energy applications, where solar energy is provided to end users independent of an electricity transmission grid. We believe that the availability of financing could have a significant effect on the level of sales of off-grid solar energy applications, particularly in developing countries where users may not have sufficient resources or credit to otherwise acquire PV systems. If these existing financing programs are reduced or eliminated or if financings for solar energy projects continue to be tight or become more expensive, demand for our products would be adversely affected and our revenue and profits could decline. 5 Table of Contents A significant reduction in or discontinuation of government subsidies and economic incentives may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Demand for our products substantially depends on government incentives aimed to promote greater use of solar power. In many countries in which we are currently or intend to become active, the PV markets, particularly the market for “on-grid” PV systems, would not be commercially viable without government incentives. This is because the cost of generating electricity from solar power currently exceeds the cost of generating electricity from conventional or non-solar renewable energy sources. The scope of the government incentives for solar power depends, to a large extent, on political and policy developments in a given country related to environmental, economic or other concerns, which could lead to a significant reduction in or a discontinuation of the support for renewable energy sources in such country. For example, in 2008, Spain set a cap of 500 megawatts for feed-in tariffs for solar power in 2009, and, in 2010, Spain announced its plan to cut the subsidized electricity prices paid to new photovoltaic solar power plants by up to 45%, both of which are expected to significantly reduce installations of new solar energy projects in the country. In 2009, the German government reduced solar feed-in tariffs by 9%. In January, July and October of 2010, Germany introduced further solar feed-in tariffs reductions of approximately 24-26% for rooftop systems and 20-25% for ground-based systems. In addition, further mid-year tariff cuts are being discussed for 2011. In 2010 and May 2011, Italian government announced annual reductions to feed-in tariffs in an effort to impede overheating of its solar market. In addition, in certain countries, including countries to which we export PV products, government financial support of PV products has been, and may continue to be, challenged as being unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful. A significant reduction in the scope or discontinuation of government incentive programs, especially in our target markets, would have a material adverse effect on the demand for our PV modules as well as our results of operations. We had experienced, and may experience in the future, industry-wide shortage of polysilicon. Our failure to obtain polysilicon in sufficient quantities, of appropriate quality and in a timely manner could disrupt our operations, prevent us from operating at full capacity or limit our ability to expand as planned, which will reduce, and limit the growth of, our manufacturing output and revenue. Polysilicon is the most important raw material used in the production of our PV products. To maintain competitive manufacturing operations, we depend on timely delivery by our suppliers of polysilicon in sufficient quantities and of appropriate quality. The global supply of polysilicon is controlled by a limited number of producers, and until the fourth quarter of 2008, there had been an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon in recent years. The shortage of polysilicon was the result of a combination of factors, including a significant increase in demand for polysilicon due to the rapid growth of the PV industry, the significant lead time required for building additional capacity for polysilicon production and significant competing demand for polysilicon from the semiconductor industry. Partly as a result of the industry-wide shortage, we had from time to time faced the prospect of a shortage of polysilicon and late or failed delivery of polysilicon from suppliers. We may experience actual shortage of polysilicon or late or failed delivery in the future for the following reasons, among others. First, the terms of our polysilicon contracts with, or purchase orders to, our suppliers may be altered or cancelled by the suppliers with limited or no penalty to them, in which case we may not be able to recover damages fully or at all. Second, we generally do not have a history of long-term relationships with polysilicon suppliers who may be able to meet our polysilicon needs consistently or on an emergency basis, while compared to us, many of our competitors who also purchase polysilicon from our suppliers have had longer and stronger relationships with and greater buying power and bargaining leverage over our suppliers. In January 2009, we acquired Cyber Power Group Limited, or Cyber Power, a development stage enterprise designed to produce polysilicon. Cyber Power, through its principle operating subsidiary, Fine Silicon, has started trial production of solar-grade polysilicon in late 2009 and is expected to reach its full production capacity of 3,000 tons per year by the end of 2011. However, we do not expect to have a polysilicon production capacity that meets our polysilicon needs in the near future. As a result, we expect to continue to rely on third-party polysilicon suppliers. 6 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain delivery of polysilicon in amounts and according to time schedules as agreed with our suppliers, or at all, we may be forced to reduce production or secure alternative sources of polysilicon in the spot market, which may not provide polysilicon in amounts or quality required by us or at comparable or affordable prices, or at all. Our failure to obtain the required amounts and quality of polysilicon on time and at affordable prices can seriously hamper our ability to meet our contractual obligations to deliver PV products to our customers. Any failure by us to meet such obligations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, retention of customers, market share, business and results of operations and may subject us to claims from our customers and other disputes. In addition, our failure to obtain sufficient amounts of polysilicon of the appropriate quality could result in underutilization of our existing and new production facilities and an increase of our marginal production cost, and may prevent us from implementing capacity expansion as currently planned. Any of the above events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Volatility in polysilicon prices may adversely affect our results of operations. Polysilicon is the most important raw material in the production of our PV products. In 2007 and 2008, there was an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon, primarily due to the growing demand for PV products and limited supply of polysilicon, which resulted in increasing prices of polysilicon under both long-term supply contracts and on the spot market until the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2008. From the fourth quarter of 2008 to the second quarter of 2009, as the result of increased polysilicon manufacturing capacity and the decrease in the demand for polysilicon due to the recent global financial crisis, the price of polysilicon has decreased significantly. Since the third quarter of 2010, the polysilicon price has rebounded due to the recovery of demand for PV products in main markets. Any significant increase of the price for polysilicon may materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial conditions and results of operations. Our polysilicon cost may increase as a result of entering into fixed arrangements with our suppliers, and the excess costs and expenses to operate and manage our in-house polysilicon production may materially and adversely affect our results of operation. Polysilicon is the most important raw material used in the production of our PV products. To maintain competitive manufacturing operations, we depend on timely delivery by our suppliers of polysilicon in sufficient quantities and of appropriate quality. There had been an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon supply in recent years until the fourth quarter of 2008, during which period we entered into short-term, medium-term and long-term supply contracts with fixed prices or prices adjustable with set formulas to secure our polysilicon supply. From the fourth quarter of 2008 to the second quarter of 2009, as the result of increased polysilicon manufacturing capacity and the decrease in the demand for polysilicon due to the recent global financial crisis, the price of polysilicon has decreased significantly. In response to the significant decrease in polysilicon price, we have renegotiated with our suppliers to reduce the purchase price for a substantial amount of polysilicon supplied under certain of our prior polysilicon supply contracts. If the price under our current contracts is higher than the market price of polysilicon, we will have higher cost of polysilicon compared with other competitors who purchase their polysilicon from the spot market. In order to address the shortage of polysilicon and supplement our purchase from third-party polysilicon suppliers, we acquired Fine Silicon in January 2009 and have developed it into our in-house polysilicon production subsidiary. Fine Silicon is expected to reach its full production capacity of 3,000 tons of polysilicon per year by the end of 2011. However, we cannot assure you that the polysilicon production at Fine Silicon will be cost-effective. If the market price of polysilicon decreases below the cost of polysilicon produced by Fine Silicon, our use of polysilicon produced by Fine Silicon will increase our cost of revenues. Such increased cost of revenues, combined with the costs and expenses for operating Fine Silicon, will materially and adversely affect our results of operations. To the extent we are not able to pass these increased costs and expenses on to our customers, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our competitors, and our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for a substantial majority of polysilicon could prevent us from delivering our products in a timely manner to our customers in the required quantities, which could result in order cancellations, decreased revenue and loss of market share. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, our five largest suppliers supplied in the aggregate approximately 55.0%, 84.5% and 93.1%, respectively, of our total polysilicon purchases. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these or our other suppliers, we may be unable to manufacture our products, our products may only be available at a higher cost or after a long delay, or we could be prevented from delivering our products to our customers in the required quantities, at competitive prices and on acceptable terms of delivery. Problems of this kind could cause us to experience order cancellations, decreased revenue and loss of market share. In general, the failure of a supplier to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner due to lack of supplies or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture our products or could increase our costs, particularly if we are unable to obtain these materials and components from alternative sources in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. Some of our suppliers have a limited operating history and limited financial resources, and some contracts we entered into with these suppliers do not clearly provide for remedies to us in the event any of these suppliers is not able to, or otherwise does not, deliver, in a timely manner or at all, any materials it is contractually obligated to deliver. We do not expect the production of Fine Silicon, our wholly owned polysilicon production subsidiary to meet our entire polysilicon needs in the near future. As a result, we expect to continue to rely on third-party polysilicon suppliers for a significant portion of our polysilicon needs and any disruption in the supply of polysilicon to us may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, due to a shortage of raw materials for the production of PV modules, increased market demand for polysilicon raw materials, the failure by some polysilicon suppliers to achieve expected production volumes and certain other factors, a few of our polysilicon suppliers failed to fully perform on their polysilicon supply contractual commitments to us, and we consequently did not receive part of the contractually agreed quantities of polysilicon raw materials from these suppliers. While we were able to replace such expected deliveries of polysilicon through purchases from the spot market and new supply contracts, we cannot assure you that any future failure of our suppliers to deliver agreed quantities of polysilicon could be substantially replaced in a timely manner or at all through spot market purchases or new supply contracts or that the price of such purchases or terms of such contracts will be favorable to us. We depend, and expect to continue to depend, on a limited number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenues. As a result, the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers would significantly reduce our revenues and harm our results of operations. In addition, a significant portion of our outstanding accounts receivable is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. Failure of any of these customers to meet their payment obligations would materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. We currently expect that our results of operations will, for the foreseeable future, continue to depend on the sale of our PV modules to a relatively small number of customers until we become successful in significantly expanding our customer base or diversifying product offerings. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, sales to our customers that individually exceeded 10% of our net revenues accounted for approximately 11.6%, 16.9% and 12.0%, respectively, of our net revenues. Our relationships with such key customers have been developed over a short period of time and are generally in their early stages. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate significant revenues from these customers or that we will be able to maintain these customer relationships. In addition, our business is affected by competition in the market for the products that many of our major customers sell, and any decline in the businesses of our customers could reduce the purchase of our products by these customers. The loss of sales to any of these customers could also have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations. In addition, a significant portion of our outstanding accounts receivable are derived from sales to a limited number of customers. As of December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, our five largest outstanding accounts receivable balance (net of provisions) accounted for approximately 81.2%, 38.9% and 33.3%, respectively, of our total outstanding accounts receivable. We are exposed to the credit risk of these customers, some of which 8 Table of Contents are new customers with whom we have not had extensive business dealings historically. The failure of any of these customers to meet their payment obligations would materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. We face intense competition in the PV modules and PV system markets and our PV products compete with different solar energy systems as well as other renewable energy sources in the alternative energy market. If we fail to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors, our business prospects and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The PV market is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. The number of PV product manufacturers had rapidly increased due to the growth of actual and forecasted demand for PV products and the relatively low barriers to entry. If we fail to attract and retain customers in our target markets for our current and future core products, namely PV modules and PV systems, we will be unable to increase our revenues and market share. We compete with both local and international producers of solar products, including the solar energy divisions of large conglomerates such as BP Solar and Sharp Corporation, PV module manufacturers such as SunPower Corporation, thin film solar module manufacturers such as First Solar, Inc., and integrated PV product manufacturers such as SolarWorld AG, Renewable Energy Corporation, Suntech Power Holdings Co. Ltd. and Trina Solar Limited. We may also face competition from new entrants to the PV market, including those that offer more advanced technological solutions or that have greater financial resources, such as semiconductor manufacturers, several of which have announced their intention to start production of PV cells and PV modules. A significant number of our competitors are developing or currently producing products based on technologies which many believe to be more advanced including amorphous silicon, string ribbon and nano technologies, some or all of which may eventually offer cost advantages over the crystalline polysilicon technologies we currently use.. A widespread adoption of any of these technologies could result in a rapid decline in demand for our products and a resulting decrease in our revenues if we fail to adopt such technologies. In addition, like us, some of our competitors have become, or are becoming, vertically integrated in the PV industry value chain, from silicon ingot manufacturing to PV system sales and installation. This could further erode our competitive advantage as a vertically integrated PV product manufacturer. In addition, our competitors may also enter into the polysilicon manufacturing business, which may provide them with cost advantages. Furthermore, the entire PV industry also faces competition from conventional energy and non-solar renewable energy providers. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. The greater size of some of our competitors provides them with cost advantages as a result of their economies of scale and their ability to obtain volume discounts and purchase raw materials at lower prices. Some of our competitors also have better brand name recognition, more established distribution networks, larger customer bases or more in-depth knowledge of the target markets. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the research and development, promotion and sale of their products and respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions as compared to us. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or future competitors would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations. If PV technology is not suitable for widespread adoption, or sufficient demand for PV products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipated, our sales may not continue to increase or may even decline, and we may be unable to sustain profitability. The PV market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which PV products will be widely adopted is uncertain. The PV industry may also be particularly susceptible to economic downturns. Market data in the PV industry are not as readily available as those in other more established industries where 9 Table of Contents trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. If PV technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for PV products fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to grow our business or generate sufficient revenues to sustain our profitability. In addition, demand for PV products in our targeted markets, including China, may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipated. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and demand for PV products, including (i) cost-effectiveness of PV products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; (ii) performance and reliability of PV products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; (iii) availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the PV industry; (iv) success of other alternative energy generation technologies, such as fuel cells, wind power and biomass; (v) fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; (vi) capital expenditures by end users of PV products, which tend to decrease when economy slows down; and (vii) deregulation of the electric utility industry and broader energy industry. Existing regulations and policies governing the electric utility industry, as well as changes to these regulations and policies, may adversely affect demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. The electric utility industry is subject to extensive regulation, and the market for PV products is heavily influenced by these regulations as well as the policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often affect electricity pricing and technical interconnection of end-user power generation. As the market for solar and other alternative energy sources continues to evolve, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in research and development of, solar and other alternative energy sources may be significantly affected by these regulations and policies, which could significantly reduce demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. Moreover, we expect that our PV products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with international, national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters in various countries or regions. We also have to comply with the requirements of individual localities and design equipment to comply with varying standards applicable in the jurisdictions where we conduct business. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our PV products may result in significant additional expenses to us, our distributors and end users and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our PV products, as well as materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Advance payment arrangements between us and some of our polysilicon suppliers and many of our equipment suppliers expose us to the credit risks of such suppliers and may increase our costs and expenses, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. We made advance payments to some of our polysilicon suppliers under long-term supply contracts we signed with them. As of December 31, 2010, we had long-term prepayment balances for polysilicon in a total amount of RMB 504.3 million (US$76.4 million) under such long-term contracts. In addition, under existing supply contracts with many of our equipment suppliers, consistent with the industry practice, we make advance payments to our suppliers prior to the scheduled delivery dates for equipment. In many such cases, we make the advance payments without receiving collateral for such payments. As a result, our claims for such payments would rank as unsecured claims, which would expose us to the credit risks of our suppliers in the event of their insolvency or bankruptcy. Under such circumstances, our claims against the defaulting suppliers would rank below those of secured creditors, which would undermine our chances of obtaining the return of our advance payments. Accordingly, any of the above scenarios may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 10 Table of Contents Our growth strategy requires substantial capital expenditures, significant engineering efforts, timely delivery of manufacturing equipment and dedicated management attention, and our failure to complete our expansion plans or otherwise effectively manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our sales and earnings. Our future success depends on our ability to expand our manufacturing capacity. If we are unable to do so, we will not be able to attain the desired level of economies of scale in our operations or lower our marginal production costs to the level necessary to effectively maintain our pricing and other competitive advantages. We have made substantial capital expenditures for our growth in the past and future expansions. For example, we completed an aggregate of 400 megawatts capacity expansion projects in July 2010, bringing our total annual production capacity to 1,000 megawatts. Fine Silicon, our wholly-owned polysilicon production subsidiary, started trial production in late 2009 and is expected to reach its full capacity of 3,000 tons per year by the end of 2011. In addition, we are implementing a 600 megawatts production capacity expansion project in Baoding and a 100 megawatt production capacity expansion project in Hainan Province, which are expected to start initial production in the middle of 2011 and will bring our total nameplate capacity to 1,700 megawatts in late 2011. Our growth strategy has required and will continue to require substantial capital expenditures, significant engineering efforts, timely delivery of manufacturing equipment, dedicated management attention and the recruitment and training of new employees and is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: • we may need to continue to contribute significant additional capital to our subsidiaries through the issuance of equity or debt securities or entering into new credit facilities or other arrangements in order to finance the costs of developing the new facilities, which may not be conducted on reasonable terms or at all, and which could be dilutive to our existing shareholders; such capital contributions, if contributed from outside of PRC, also require PRC regulatory approvals in order for such funds to be transferred to our subsidiaries within PRC, which approvals may not be granted in a timely manner or at all; • we will be required to obtain governmental approvals, permits or documents of similar nature with respect to any new expansion projects, but it is uncertain whether such approvals, permits or documents will be obtained in a timely manner or at all; • we may experience cost overruns, construction delays, equipment problems, including delays in manufacturing equipment deliveries or deliveries of equipment that is damaged or does not meet our specifications, and other operating difficulties; • we are using new equipment and technology to lower our unit capital and operating costs, but we cannot assure you that such efforts will be successful; and • we may not have sufficient management resources to properly oversee capacity expansion as currently planned. Any of these or similar difficulties could adversely affect our ability to manage the growth of our operations. Any significant delays or constraints to our manufacturing capacity expansion as currently planned could limit our ability to increase sales, reduce marginal manufacturing costs or otherwise improve our prospects and profitability. In addition, we may have over-capacity as a result of our manufacturing capacity expansion if we do not sufficiently increase sales. We may undertake acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, and such undertakings may be unsuccessful. Our strategy includes plans to grow both organically and through acquisitions, participation in joint ventures or other strategic alliances with suppliers or other companies in China and overseas along the PV industry value chain. For example, in January 2009, we completed the acquisition of Cyber Power and its principal operating subsidiary, Fine Silicon, to establish our own in-house polysilicon production capacity. 11 Table of Contents Joint ventures and strategic alliances may expose us to new operational, regulatory, market and geographic risks as well as risks associated with additional capital requirements. Acquisitions of companies or businesses and participation in joint ventures or other strategic alliances are subject to considerable risks, including: • our inability to integrate new operations, personnel, products, services and technologies; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities, including exposure to administrative or legal proceedings associated with newly acquired companies; • the diversion of resources from our existing businesses; • disagreement with joint venture or strategic alliance partners; • contravention of regulations governing cross-border investment; • failure to comply with laws and regulations as well as industry or technical standards of the overseas markets into which we expand; • our inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions, strategic investments, joint venture formations or other strategic alliances; and • potential loss of, or harm to, employees or customer relationships. Any of these events could disrupt our ability to manage our business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Such risks could also result in our failure to derive the intended benefits of the acquisitions, strategic investments, joint ventures or strategic alliances and we may be unable to recover our investment in such initiatives. We may not be able to ramp up our in-house polysilicon manufacturing capacity on schedule or at all. Fine Silicon, our wholly owned polysilicon production subsidiary, started trial production in late 2009 and is expected to reach its full production volume of 3,000 tons per year by the end of 2011. To fully ramp up Fine Silicon’s production capacity, we will need to continue to integrate the personnel we have hired and build an effective team and infrastructure to oversee the operation of the production facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully ramp up our polysilicon production capacity on schedule or at all. Our ability to successfully ramp up polysilicon manufacturing capacity is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including: • the need to procure supplies of consumables and other materials at reasonable costs and on a timely basis; • equipment testing delays and cost overruns; • difficulties in recruitment and training of additional skilled employees, including technicians and managers at different levels; • diversion of significant management attention and other resources; and • delays or denials of renewing required permits and approvals for our plant operations, including but not limited to environmental approvals, by relevant government authorities. We only have very limited experience in polysilicon production and may not be successful in producing polysilicon cost-effectively. We started trial production of polysilicon through Fine Silicon in late 2009. Prior to that, we had no experience in polysilicon production. The technology used to manufacture polysilicon is complex, requires costly equipment and is continuously being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Microscopic impurities such as dust and other contaminants, difficulties in the manufacturing process, disruptions in the supply of utilities or defects in the key materials and tools used to manufacture polysilicon 12 Table of Contents could interrupt manufacturing, reduce yields or cause a portion of the polysilicon to be difficult or costly to use in wafer production, which would negatively affect our profitability. In the process of ramping up our polysilicon production capacity, if we are unable to overcome technological difficulties, we may be unable to achieve cost-effective production of polysilicon, which could prevent us from successfully implementing our business plans. Our effective capacity and ability to produce high volumes of polysilicon will depend on the cycle times for each batch of polysilicon. We may encounter problems in our manufacturing process or facilities as a result of, among other things, production failures, construction delays, human error, equipment malfunction or process contamination, all of which could seriously harm our operations. We may experience production delays if any modifications we make in the manufacturing process to shorten production cycles are unsuccessful. Moreover, the failure to achieve acceptable manufacturing levels would result in the need to source a larger portion of our polysilicon requirements from third parties and therefore may cause our polysilicon costs not to be competitive, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to operate our polysilicon production facilities effectively or natural disasters or other operational disruptions occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Production of polysilicon requires the use of volatile materials and chemical reactions sensitive to temperature, pressure and requires the use of external controls to maintain safety and provide commercial production yields. The occurrence of a catastrophic event as a result of a natural disaster or human error or otherwise at our future polysilicon production facilities could threaten, disrupt or destroy a significant portion or all of our polysilicon production capacity at such facility for a significant period of time. Furthermore, our polysilicon production facilities will be highly reliant on our ability to maintain temperatures and pressure at appropriate levels, the supply of steam at a consistent pressure, the availability of adequate electricity and our ability to control the application of such electricity. Accordingly, mistakes in operating our equipment or an interruption in the supply of electricity at our production facilities could result in the production of substandard polysilicon or substantial shortfalls in production and could reduce our production capacity for a significant period of time. Damage or loss of revenue from any such events or disruptions may not be adequately covered by insurance, and could also damage our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Polysilicon and ingot production is energy-intensive and if our energy costs rise or if our energy supplies are disrupted, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The polysilicon and ingot production process is highly dependent on a constant supply of electricity to maintain the optimal conditions for production. If these levels are not maintained, we may experience significant delays in the production of polysilicon and ingots. With the rapid development of the Chinese economy, demand for electricity has continued to increase. There have been shortages in electricity supply in various regions across China, especially during peak seasons such as summer. In the event that energy supplies to our manufacturing facilities are disrupted, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition to shortages, we are subject to potential risks of interruptions in energy supply due to equipment failure, weather events or other causes. There can be no assurance that we will not face power related problems in the future. Even if we had access to sufficient sources of electricity, as we consume substantial amounts of electricity in our manufacturing process, any significant increase in the costs of electricity could adversely affect our profitability. The electricity price in China will also be largely dependent on the price for coal, which has been increasing. If energy costs were to increase, our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity position could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Fluctuations in exchange rates have in the past and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations. Most of our sales are currently denominated in Euros or U.S. dollars, while a substantial portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, Euros and U.S. dollars. In addition, we must constantly convert one currency into another to make payments. Therefore, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a significant effect on our results of operations due to mismatches among various foreign currency-denominated transactions, including sales of PV modules in overseas markets and purchases of silicon raw materials and equipment, and the time gap between the signing of the related contracts and cash receipts and disbursements related to such contracts. In 2010, we recognized a net foreign currency exchange loss of RMB 338.2 million (US$51.2 million), primarily due to the depreciation of the Euro against the Renminbi in the first half of 2010 and the depreciation of the U.S. dollars against the Renminbi in the second half of 2010. In addition, we have entered into hedging and foreign currency forward arrangements to limit our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. However, we will continue to be exposed to foreign currency exchange risk to the extent that our hedging and foreign currency forward arrangements do not cover all of our expected revenues denominated in foreign currencies. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our foreign currency exchange gains or losses in the future. We may continue to reduce the effect of such exposure through hedging or other similar arrangements, but because of the limited availability of such instruments in China, we cannot assure you that we will always find a hedging arrangement suitable to us, or that such derivative activities will be effective in managing our foreign exchange risk. In addition, our functional currency for PRC subsidiaries is Renminbi. Our sales generated by PRC subsidiaries which are denominated in foreign currencies need to be translated into Renminbi when they are recorded as our revenues. Therefore, depreciation of foreign currencies in which our sales are denominated, such as the Euro and the U.S. dollar, against the Renminbi will cause our reported revenues to decline. For example, in 2009 and 2010, the depreciation of the Euro against the Renminbi and the depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi adversely affected our total net revenues, as a majority of our PV module shipments were under contracts denominated in the Euro and the U.S. dollar. Any further depreciation of foreign currencies in which our sales are denominated against the Renminbi will continue to adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our product development initiatives and other research and development efforts may fail to improve manufacturing efficiency or yield commercially viable new products. We are making efforts to improve our manufacturing processes and improve the quality of our PV products. We believe the efficient use of polysilicon is essential to reducing our manufacturing costs. We have been exploring several measures to improve the efficient use of polysilicon in our manufacturing process, including reducing the thickness of silicon wafers. However, the use of thinner silicon wafers may have unforeseen negative consequences, such as increased breakage and reduced reliability and conversion efficiency of our PV cells and modules. As a result, reducing the thickness of silicon wafers may not lead to the cost reductions we expect to achieve, while at the same time it may reduce customer satisfaction with our products, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships, reputation and results of operations. In addition, we have also been able to reduce manufacturing costs by utilizing polysilicon scraps and lower-grade polysilicon in our production of ingots and wafers. However, while the addition of monocrystalline silicon to our production of ingots and wafers may reduce costs of polysilicon supply, we cannot assure you that such benefits will not be outweighed by the additional costs of equipment and production costs to produce monocrystalline silicon. We are also exploring ways to improve our PV module production. Additional research and development efforts will be required before our products in development may be manufactured and sold at a commercially viable level. We cannot assure you that such efforts will improve the efficiency of manufacturing processes or yield new products that are commercially viable. In addition, the failure to realize the intended benefits from 14 Table of Contents our product development initiatives could limit our ability to keep pace with the rapid technological changes, which in turn would hurt our business and prospects. For example, in order to meet the increasing demand for our products and further drive down costs through increased cell conversion efficiency and the larger scale of manufacturing, we started to implement Project PANDA, a research and development project for next-generation high efficiency monocrystalline PV cells, in June 2009. In 2010, on the 300 megawatts PANDA commercial production lines, we achieved an average efficiency rate of 18.5%. In the first quarter of 2011, we achieved a record cell conversion efficiency rate of 19.89% on a PANDA pilot production line. However, as we are new to the monocrystalline technology, we may not be able to overcome all technical challenges in the process of commercializing new technology developed from Project PANDA and maintain or further improve the cell conversion efficiency rate we have achieved. In addition, we only have limited experience with customer demands in the monocrystalline PV market and may not be able to adapt to the monocrystalline PV market conditions. The established and more experienced competitors in the monocrystalline PV market may possess superior technology and have better known brand names than us. If we fail to successfully continue commercializing our monocrystalline PV technology or are unable to operate competitively in the monocrystalline market, we may not be able to recover the cost of our investments, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period. Our results of operations are subject to many factors out of our control, which include, among others, changes in costs of raw materials, delays in equipment delivery, suppliers’ failure to perform their delivery obligations, cancellation or delay of customers’ orders, interruptions in utilities supply and other key production inputs, general economic conditions and changes in government policies or incentive schemes, or uncertainties relating to any of the these factors. Any one or combination of these factors may cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly from period to period or deviate from the expectations of the investment community or our own projections. For example, in the first quarter of 2011, due to the uncertainties relating to the timing of a proposed reduction in feed-in tariffs for solar power in Italy, certain orders we expected to deliver to customers in Italy in that quarter were delayed or cancelled and expected to be delivered in the following quarters, which caused a decrease in our PV module shipments for the first quarter 2011 from the previous quarter. In the same quarter, increases in polysilicon cost and auxiliary raw materials had a negative impact on our gross margin. For these reasons, our results of operations for the first quarter 2011 were expected to be lower than the guidance we previously provided to the investment community. As a result, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results or projections as an indication of our future performance. Failure to achieve satisfactory output of our PV modules and PV systems could result in a decline in sales. The manufacture of PV modules and PV systems is a highly complex process. Disruptions or deviations in one or more components of the manufacturing process can cause a substantial decrease in output and, in some cases, disrupt production significantly or result in no output. Historically, we had from time to time experienced lower-than-anticipated manufacturing output during the ramp-up of production lines. This often occurred during the production of new products, the installation of new equipment or the implementation of new process technologies. As we bring additional lines or facilities into production, we may operate at less than intended capacity during the ramp-up period and produce less output than expected. This would result in higher marginal production costs which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Unsatisfactory performance of or defects in our products may cause us to incur additional warranty expenses, damage our reputation and cause our sales to decline. Currently, our PV modules sold to customers outside of China typically carry a five-year limited warranty for defects in materials and workmanship, although historically our PV modules were typically sold with a 15 Table of Contents two-year limited warranty for such defects. In addition, our PV modules typically carry a ten-year and twenty-five-year limited warranty against declines of initial power generation capacity by more than 10.0% and 20.0%, respectively. As a result, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we sell our products and recognize revenues. As we began selling PV modules only since January 2003, a small portion of our PV modules has been in use for more than five years. For our PV systems sold in China, we provide a one- to five-year limited warranty against defects in modules, storage batteries and certain other system parts. As of December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, our accrued warranty costs amounted to RMB 123.6 million, RMB 189.2 million and RMB 303.6 million (US$46.0 million), respectively. In addition, because our products have only been in use for a relatively short period of time, our assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our products may not be accurate, and because our products have relatively long warranty periods, we cannot assure you that the amount of accrued warranty by us for our products will be adequate in light of the actual performance of our products. If we experience a significant increase in warranty claims, we may incur significant repair and replacement costs associated with such claims. Furthermore, widespread product failures will damage our reputation and customer relationships and may cause our sales to decline, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, severe weather conditions or other catastrophic events may severely affect the regions where we or our customers operate. For example, in March 2011, Japan experienced a strong earthquake, measuring approximately 9.0 on the Richter magnitude scale, and severe tsunami created by earthquake, causing widespread damage and casualties. These natural disasters could cause a material economic downturn in the affected area or internationally. Although we have limited exposure to this catastrophic event, any future disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, war, terrorist activity, threats of war or terrorist activity, social unrest as well as geopolitical uncertainty and international conflict and tension, for example, the current armed conflicts in Libya, could affect international economic development. In turn, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be adequately prepared in terms of contingency planning or have recovery capabilities in place to deal with a major incident or crisis. As a result, our operational continuity may be adversely and materially affected. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from business interruption or natural disasters. We do not maintain any business interruption insurance coverage. As a result, we may have to pay, out of our own funds, for financial and other losses, damages and liabilities, including those in connection with or resulting from claims caused by natural disasters and other events beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We obtain some of the equipment used in our manufacturing process from a small number of selected suppliers and if our equipment is damaged or new or replacement equipment is not delivered to us in a timely manner or is otherwise unavailable, our ability to deliver products timely will suffer, which in turn could result in cancellations of orders and loss of revenue for us. Some of the equipment used in our production of polysilicon ingots, wafers, PV cells and PV modules, such as ingot casting furnaces, diffusion furnaces and wire saws, have been customized to our specifications, are not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace. There are also limited sources of supply for the principal polysilicon manufacturing equipment we use and we may not be able to replace such sources at reasonable costs and on a timely basis or at all. If any of our key equipment suppliers were to experience financial difficulties or go out of business, we may have difficulties with repairing or replacing our key equipment in the event of any damage to or a breakdown of such equipment. Furthermore, new or replacement equipment may not be delivered to us in a timely manner. In such cases, our 16 Table of Contents ability to deliver products in a timely manner would suffer, which in turn could result in cancellations of orders from our customers and loss of revenue for us. In addition, the equipment we need for our expansion is in high demand. A supplier’s failure to deliver the equipment in a timely manner, in sufficient quantity and on terms acceptable to us could delay our capacity expansion and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our production costs. If the practice of requiring many of our customers to make advance payments when they place orders with us ceases, we may experience increased needs to finance our working capital requirements and may be exposed to increased credit risk, which may materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We require many of our customers to make an advance payment representing a small percentage of their orders, a business practice that helps us manage our accounts receivable, prepay our suppliers and reduce the amount of funds that we needed to finance our working capital requirements. However, this practice had historically ceased for a certain period of time, which in turn had increased our need to obtain additional short-term borrowings to fund our cash requirements. We cannot assure you that this practice will not cease again in the future. If this practice ceases, we may not be able to secure additional financing on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us or at all. Currently, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from credits sales to our customers, generally with payments due within two months. As a result, any future decrease in the use of cash advance payments by our customers may negatively impact our short-term liquidity and, coupled with increased sales to a small number of major customers, expose us to additional and more concentrated credit risk since a significant portion of our outstanding accounts receivable is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. As of December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, our five largest outstanding accounts receivable balance accounted for approximately 81.2%, 38.9% and 33.3%, respectively, of our total outstanding accounts receivable. The failure of any of these or other customers to meet their payment obligations would materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. For example, as the result of two customers’ prolonged failure to settle accounts receivable and the continuing deterioration of their financial condition and creditworthiness, we made a total provision of RMB 315.5 million in 2009 for the doubtful accounts receivable related to these two customers. Although we have been able to maintain adequate working capital primarily through short-term borrowing, our convertible senior notes offering, the follow-on offering, other debt issuances and long-term bank borrowings, any failure by our customers to settle outstanding accounts receivable in the future could materially and adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks associated with the marketing and sale of our PV products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our ability to expand our business abroad will be limited. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, we sold 97.5%, 95.5% and 94.0%, respectively, of our products to customers outside of China, including customers in Germany, the United States, Italy, Spain, the Netherlands, Greece, Czech Republic, France, the United Kingdom, South Korea and Japan. We intend to further grow our business activities in international and domestic markets, in particular in the United States, China, South Africa and selected countries in southern Europe and Southeast Asia where we believe the PV market is likely to grow significantly in the near term. The marketing and sale of our PV products to international markets expose us to a number of risks, including, but not limited, to: • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • increased costs associated with maintaining the ability to understand the local markets and follow their trends, as well as develop and maintain effective marketing and distributing presence in various countries; • the availability of advances from our customers; • providing customer service and support in these markets; • difficulty with staffing and managing overseas operations; 17 Table of Contents • failure to develop appropriate risk management and internal control structures tailored to overseas operations; • difficulty and cost relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer or plan to offer our products and services; • failure to obtain or maintain certifications for our products or services in these markets; • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; • unanticipated changes in prevailing economic conditions and regulatory requirements; and • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses. We export a substantial amount of our products to Europe. In 2009, there were discussions that indicate the European Union may seek to start anti-dumping investigations on PV products imported from China. If an anti-dumping investigation is started against Chinese exporters or if the European Union imposes anti-dumping or other trade protection measures, including increase tariffs on PV products imported from China, our export to Europe may be materially and adversely affected. In recent years, we also export an increasing amount of our products to the United States. On September 9, 2010, the United Steel Workers filed a petition with the United States Trade Representative, or USTR, alleging the PRC government has engaged in unfair trade policies and practices with respect to certain domestic industries, including the solar power industry. The petition alleges that China employs a wide range of World Trade Organization-inconsistent policies that protect and unfairly support its domestic producers of wind and PV energy products, advanced batteries and energy-efficient vehicles. According to the petition, these policies include export restraints, prohibited subsidies, discrimination against foreign companies and imported goods, technology transfer requirements, and domestic subsidies causing serious prejudice to U.S. interests. Subsequently, USTR initiated an investigation under Section 301 of the 1974 Trade Act, which is ongoing as of the date of this annual report. On January 7, 2011, U.S. President Barack Obama signed into law the Military Authorization Law, which contains a “Buy American” provision that prohibits the United States Defense Department from purchasing Chinese-made solar panels. If as the result of such investigation the United States imposes anti-subsidies or other trade protection measures, our export to the United States may be materially and adversely affected. There can be no assurance that any government or international trade body will not institute adverse trade policies or remedies against exports from China in the future. Any significant changes in international trade policies, practices or trade remedies, especially those instituted in our target markets or markets where our major customers are located, could increase the price of our products compared to our competitors or decrease our customers’ demand for our products, which may adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. If the United States imposes anti-subsidies or other trade protection measures, our export to the United States may be materially and adversely affected. Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond timely and effectively to rapid changes in market conditions in the relevant countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed in different legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not be able to develop and implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. To the extent that we conduct business in foreign countries by means of participations or joint ventures, there are additional risks. See “— We may undertake acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, and such undertakings may be unsuccessful.” A change in one or more of the factors described above may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations as well as meet future capital requirements. If we cannot obtain additional capital when we need it, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations. We will also require cash to meet future capital requirements, which are difficult to predict in the rapidly changing PV industry. In particular, we will 18 Table of Contents need substantial capital to fund the further expansion of our production capacity, the ramp-up of our in-house polysilicon production capacity, as well as research and development activities in order to remain competitive. Our ability to obtain additional financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by manufacturers of PV and related products; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. In particular, as a result of weakened macroeconomic conditions resulting from the recent global financial crisis, including continuing adverse credit market conditions, we have experienced and may continue to experience increasing difficulty in obtaining financing on acceptable terms or at all. We cannot assure that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms or at all, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities would result in further dilution to our shareholders and the incurrence of indebtedness has and may continue to result in increased fixed obligations and has and could continue to lead to the imposition of financial or other restrictive covenants that would restrict our operations. We have issued, and may issue in the future, equity securities or securities convertible into our ordinary shares, which may cause our existing shareholders to incur further dilution upon conversion of such securities. We have issued, and may issue in the future, equity securities or securities convertible into our ordinary shares. In the event that the securities convertible into our ordinary shares are converted, our existing shareholders may incur further dilution. For example, in June 2009, we offered 18,390,000 ADSs, representing 18,390,000 of our ordinary shares, to the public and raised approximately US$227.3 million in net proceeds. In January 2009, we entered into a note purchase agreement with Trustbridge Partners II, L.P., or Trustbridge. Under the terms of the note purchase agreement, we have issued an aggregate amount of US$49.4 million of senior secured convertible notes due 2012, or senior secured convertible notes, to Trustbridge, or its affiliates. The senior secured convertible notes were convertible at any time prior to its maturity date into our ordinary shares at an initial conversion rate of 17,699 ordinary shares per US$100,000 principal amount of senior secured convertible notes (based on US$5.65 per ADS, the average volume weighted average price of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange for the 20-trading day period immediately preceding to the entry into the note purchase agreement). Under the terms of the indenture governing the notes, the conversion rate is subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments. For example, on June 30, 2010 and the last day of each quarter thereafter, the conversion rate will be adjusted to equal to US$100,000 divided by the average volume weighted average price of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange for the 20-trading day period immediately preceding to such date, if such adjustment results in an increase in the number of our ordinary shares issuable upon conversion. In addition, upon the public release of our financial results for each of the full year 2008, the second quarter 2009 and the full year 2009, the conversion rate would be adjusted to equal to US$100,000 divided by the average volume weighted average price of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange for the 20-trading day period immediately following such public release, if such adjustment results in an increase in the number of our ordinary shares issuable upon conversion. In March 2009, the conversion rate was adjusted to the rate of 22,933 ordinary shares per US$100,000 principal amount of the senior secured convertible notes as a result of our public release of our financial results for the full year 2008. See “Item 7.B. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions — Cyber Power Acquisition and Issuance of Senior Secured Convertible Notes” for additional information. In June 2009, we issued 2,000,000 ordinary shares to Trustbridge as a result of the conversion of approximately US$8.7 million of the senior secured convertible notes. In the third quarter of 2010, we issued 6,000,688 ordinary shares to Trustbridge as a result of the conversion of US$26.2 million of the senior secured convertible notes. As of the date of this annual report, approximately US$14.6 million of the senior secured convertible notes were outstanding. We would be required to issue an aggregate of 3,339,503 ordinary shares to Trustbridge or its affiliates upon the conversion of our senior secured convertible notes, assuming all such notes are converted at 19 Table of Contents the adjusted conversion rate of 22,933 ordinary shares per US$100,000 in principal amount of the senior secured convertible notes. In connection with a credit agreement between Yingli China and a fund managed by Asia Debt Management Hong Kong Limited, or ADM Capital, entered into in January 2009, we issued 4,125,000 warrants to ADM Capital under the terms of a warrant agreement entered into in April 2009. The warrants are exercisable with respect to approximately one-fifth of the warrants every six months beginning in April 7, 2009 until April 7, 2012. On April 30, 2012, the warrant holders’ rights to exercise the warrants will terminate and we will be obligated to purchase all unexercised warrants at a price of US$7.00 per warrant. Each warrant provides for the right to acquire one ordinary share at an initial strike price of US$5.64, which is based on the 20-trading day volume weighted average closing price per ADS on the New York Stock Exchange for the period prior to the issuance of the warrant, subject to customary anti-dilution and similar adjustments. In June 2009, we and ADM Capital revised the warrant agreement and modified the terms so that (i) the initial strike price decreased from US$5.64 per share to US$5.06 per share, (ii) upon the exercise of the put option by the warrant holders, we may, at our sole discretion, elect to settle the put price in cash, shares or a combination of cash and shares and (iii) the number of ordinary shares we are obligated to issue upon the exercise of the put option by the warrant holders was capped. Furthermore, subject to certain exceptions and conditions, we have agreed to register under the Securities Act any ordinary shares delivered upon the exercise of warrants. We may at our discretion settle the warrants in cash, ordinary shares or a mix of cash and ordinary shares. In May 2010, 498,612 ordinary shares in the form of ADSs were issued to ADM Capital in connection with its exercise of 825,000 warrants. In November 2010, 511,599 ordinary shares in the form of ADS were issued to ADM Capital in connection with its exercise of 825,000 warrants. In May 2011, 1,444,060 ordinary shares in the form of ADSs were issued to ADM Capital in connection with its exercise of 2,475,000 warrants. As a result, nil warrants remain outstanding as of the date of this annual report. If our future acquisitions, expansions, or market changes or other developments cause us to require additional funds, we may issue additional securities convertible into our ordinary shares, and our existing shareholders could incur substantial dilution. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to meet any of our payment obligations under the debentures and our other debt. We currently have a significant amount of debt and debt service requirements. As of December 31, 2010, we had RMB 5,857.9 million (US$887.6 million) in outstanding short-term borrowings (including the current portion of long-term debt), RMB 1.0 billion (US$151.7 million) in outstanding medium-term notes and RMB 2,496.5 million (US$378.3 million) in outstanding long-term debt (excluding the current portion). This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under the debentures and our other outstanding debt; • resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with any of the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which event of default could result in cross-defaults in all of our other debt obligations which would lead to all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes as a result of interest payments, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and 20 Table of Contents • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are otherwise less leveraged. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to meet our payment obligations under the debentures and our other debt. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate adequate cash flow from operations to support our operations and service our debt obligations, or that future debt or equity will be available to us under our existing or any future credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding debt while continuing to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt. If we fail to comply with financial covenants under our loan agreements, our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. A number of our loan agreements contain financial covenants that require us to maintain certain financial ratios, including debt to EBITDA ratios. We may not be able to comply with some of those financial covenants from time to time. For example, the worsening operating environment that had generally affected companies operating in our industry since the fourth quarter of 2008 had led to potential breaches of certain financial covenants under some of our loan agreements. In response to such potential breaches, we had to negotiate with the relevant lenders terms of prepayment or to amend those financial covenants to prevent actual breaches from occurring, for example, by resetting the financial covenants for the relevant periods in the relevant loan agreements or beginning testing for compliance with financial covenants at a later date. However, if we need to negotiate with lenders again in the future with respect to prepayment or to amend financial covenants or other relevant provisions under such loan agreements to address potential breaches, we cannot assure you that we would be able to reach agreements with the lenders to avoid a breach. Furthermore, in connection with any future amendments to such covenants, our lenders may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us and otherwise seek to modify the terms of our existing loan agreements in ways that are adverse to us. Although there has been a general economic recovery since the second quarter of 2009, we cannot assure you that such recovery will continue or be sustained or will ultimately have a positive effect on the general operating environment of our industry. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to comply with the financial covenants under our loan agreements in the future. If the operating environment deteriorates, we may not be able to comply with some of the financial covenants under some of our loan agreements in future periods. If we are in breach of one or more financial covenants under any of our loan agreements and are not able to obtain waivers from the lenders or prepay such loan, such breach would constitute an event of default under the loan agreement. As a result, repayment of the indebtedness under the relevant loan agreement may be accelerated, which may in turn require us to repay the entire principal amount including interest accrued, if any, of certain of our other existing indebtedness prior to their maturity under cross-default provisions in our existing loan agreements. If we are required to repay a significant portion or all of our existing indebtedness prior to their maturity, we may lack sufficient financial resources to do so. Furthermore, a breach of those financial covenants will also restrict our ability to pay dividends. Any of those events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. We have significant short-term borrowings outstanding, and we may not be able to obtain extensions when they mature. As of December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, our outstanding short-term borrowings (including the current portion of long-term debt) were RMB 2,044.2 million, RMB 3,501.0 million and RMB 5,857.9 million 21 Table of Contents (US$887.6 million), respectively, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 6.73%, 5.05% and 4.85%, respectively, of which nil, RMB 370.0 million and RMB 1,647.2 million (US$249.6 million), respectively, were arranged or guaranteed by related parties. Generally, these loans contain no specific renewal terms, although we had traditionally negotiated renewal of certain of the loans shortly before they would mature. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew similar loans in the future as they mature. If we are unable to obtain renewals of any future loans or sufficient alternative funding on reasonable terms, we will have to repay these borrowings with cash generated by our future operations, if any. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay our future borrowings. A majority of our production, storage, administrative and research and development facilities are located in close proximity to one another in an industrial park in China. Any damage or disruption at these facilities would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A majority of our production, storage, administrative, research and development facilities are located in close proximity to one another in an industrial park in Baoding, Hebei Province, China. A natural disaster or other unanticipated catastrophic event, including power interruption, and war, could significantly disrupt our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business. If any of our production facilities or material equipment were to experience any significant damage or downtime, we would be unable to meet our production targets and our business would suffer. Our manufacturing processes generate noise, waste water, gaseous and other industrial wastes. This creates a risk of work-related accidents and places high demands on work safety measures. No major injuries have occurred at our facilities in connection with work-related accidents to date. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that accidents involving serious or fatal injuries will not occur at our facilities. Furthermore, there is a risk of contamination and environmental damage associated with hazardous substances used in our production processes. The materialization of any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our principal shareholder has significant influence over our management and their interests may not be aligned with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Yingli Power, which is 100% beneficially owned by the family trust of and controlled by Liansheng Miao, the chairperson of our board of directors and our chief executive officer, currently beneficially owns approximately 32.62% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Yingli Power has significant influence over us, including on matters relating to mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of this shareholder may conflict with our interests or the interests of our others shareholders. Tianwei Baobian has significant influence over Tianwei Yingli, one of our principal operating entities, and Tianwei Baobian may influence Tianwei Yingli from taking actions that are in the best interest of us or Tianwei Yingli. In addition, Tianwei Baobian will have significant influence over us if it exercises the subscription right, and Tianwei Baobian’s interests may not be aligned with our interests or the interests of our shareholders. Tianwei Baobian currently owns a 25.99% equity interest in Tianwei Yingli, one of our principal operating entities. Tianwei Baobian has significant influence over Tianwei Yingli through its board representation in Tianwei Yingli and other rights in accordance with the joint venture contract with us and the articles of association of Tianwei Yingli. Tianwei Baobian is entitled to appoint three of the nine directors of Tianwei Yingli. Tianwei Baobian is also entitled to appoint a director to serve as the chairperson of the board of Tianwei Yingli. Tianwei Baobian may have different views and approaches with respect to the management and operation of Tianwei Yingli from those of us. Tianwei Baobian may disagree with us in the management and operation of Tianwei Yingli and may vote against actions that we believe are in the best interest of Tianwei Yingli or us. For example, 22 Table of Contents directors appointed by Tianwei Baobian may vote against matters that require unanimous approval of all directors. Directors appointed by Tianwei Baobian may also hinder or delay adoption of relevant resolutions by not attending a board meeting, thereby preventing achievement of a quorum and forcing the meeting to be postponed for no more than seven days. See “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company — Restructuring — Joint Venture Contract — Tianwei Yingli’s Management Structure — Board of Directors.” Due to Tianwei Baobian’s ability to exercise influence over Tianwei Yingli through its appointed directors, and through its other rights under the joint venture contract, any significant deterioration of our relationship or our disagreement with Tianwei Baobian may cause disruption to Tianwei Yingli’s business, which could in turn result in a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Tianwei Baobian may also have disagreement or dispute with us with respect to our respective rights and obligations on matters such as the exercise of Tianwei Baobian’s right to subscribe for ordinary shares newly issued by us in exchange for its equity interest in Tianwei Yingli. Except in limited circumstances, we may not be able to unilaterally terminate the joint venture contract in the event of such disagreement or dispute even if such termination would be in our best interest. See “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company — Restructuring — Joint Venture Contract — Tianwei Yingli’s Management Structure — Unilateral Termination of the Joint Venture Contract.” Any such disputes may result in costly and time-consuming litigations or other dispute resolution proceedings which may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management and disrupt our business operations. Furthermore, Tianwei Baobian may transfer all or a part of its equity interest in Tianwei Yingli pursuant to the joint venture contract entered into between Tianwei Baobian and us. If we fail to exercise our right of first refusal in accordance with the procedures set forth in the joint venture contract and are thus deemed to have consented to any such proposed transfer by Tianwei Baobian to a third party or if Tianwei Baobian transfers its equity interest in Tianwei Yingli to its affiliates, such third party or such Tianwei Baobian’s affiliate will become a holder of Tianwei Yingli’s equity interest. The interests of such third party or such Tianwei Baobian’s affiliate may not be aligned with our interests or the interest of Tianwei Yingli. See “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company — Restructuring — Joint Venture Contract — Tianwei Yingli’s Management Structure — Right of First Refusal.” In addition, the Baoding State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission completed the transfer of all of its equity interest in Tianwei Group, Tianwei Baobian’s controlling shareholder, to China South Industries Group Corporation, or China South. It is unclear how Tianwei Baobian’s business strategy with respect to its shareholding in Tianwei Yingli will change subsequent to the acquisition by China South of Tianwei Group and how such change, if any, will affect the management and operation of Tianwei Yingli. Furthermore, Tianwei Baobian may exercise the subscription right, and if it exercises the subscription right, it will become a significant shareholder of us. If Tianwei Baobian becomes our shareholder, it will have significant influence over our and Tianwei Yingli’s business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our or Tianwei Yingli’s assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. If Tianwei Baobian becomes our shareholder, its interests may not be aligned with ours or our shareholders. We may not be able to obtain adequate funding to acquire the equity interest in Tianwei Yingli held by Tianwei Baobian. Under the joint venture contract entered into between Tianwei Baobian and us, Tianwei Baobian may request us to make best efforts to purchase from Tianwei Baobian all but not part of its equity interest in Tianwei Yingli. Upon such request by Tianwei Baobian, we will undertake to use our best efforts to assist Tianwei Baobian in completing the transfer of such equity interest held by Tianwei Baobian. The manner and the price at which Tianwei Baobian sells its equity interest in Tianwei Yingli will be decided by mutual agreement between Tianwei Baobian and us based on the fair market value of its and our equity interest in Tianwei Yingli, respectively, and in accordance with relevant PRC laws and regulations. If the purchase of Tianwei Baobian’s equity interest in Tianwei Yingli is required to be paid in cash, we may not be able to obtain adequate funding in time and on terms acceptable to us, if at all, to pay for such purchase price. 23 Table of Contents Negative rumors or media coverage of Tianwei Baobian, our affiliates or business partners, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business and financial condition. Since all of Tianwei Yingli’s equity interests are held together by us and Tianwei Baobian, negative rumors or media coverage of Tianwei Baobian, whether or not accurate and whether or not applicable to us, may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and financial condition. For example, in October 2006, there were news articles containing allegations, among others, that Tianwei Baobian had materially overstated its results of operations related to the export sales of Tianwei Yingli’s PV product components and its local tax rates in its published financial statements. We cannot assure you that there will not be similar or other negative rumors or media coverage related to Tianwei Baobian, our affiliates or business partners in the future. If the parent company of our minority partner in Tianwei Yingli or any affiliate of such parent company engages in sanctioned activities inconsistent with the laws and policies of other countries, the reputation of Tianwei Yingli and us may be negatively affected. As a result, some of our shareholders may divest our shares and prospective investors may decide not to invest in our shares, which may cause the price of our ADSs to decline. The United States and other countries maintain economic and other sanctions against several countries, or the sanctioned countries, and persons engaged in specified activities, such as support of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and of terrorism. Baoding Tianwei Group Corporation, or Tianwei Group, the parent company of Tianwei Baobian, our minority joint venture partner which owns 25.99% in one of our operating subsidiaries, Tianwei Yingli, was acquired by China South in March 2008. There have been news reports that China South, Tianwei Group and Tianwei Baobian conducted construction activities in or exported transformers to some sanctioned countries, including Iran and Sudan, in recent years. China North Industries Corporation, or Norinco, an affiliate of China South, was designated by the U.S. State Department under the Iran Nonproliferation Act of 2000 as engaged in the transfer to Iran of equipment and technology having the potential to make a material contribution to the development of weapons of mass destruction. Norinco was also reported to have had activities in and exported products to some sanctioned countries, including Iran, Sudan and Syria, some of which include military products and applications. In addition, Norinco is listed as one of the prohibited companies by some state and municipal governments, universities and investors due to its business relationships with the sanctioned countries. Certain of the sanctioned countries in which China South, Tianwei Group, Tianwei Baobian and Norinco have been reported to have had activities, such as Iran, Syria and Sudan, are identified by the U.S. State Department as state sponsors of terrorism and are subject to U.S. economic sanctions and export controls. We have no control over Tianwei Baobian, Tianwei Group, China South, Norinco or other affiliated entities resulted from China South’s acquisition of Tianwei Group, nor has any of such entities requested Tianwei Yingli or us to have contacts with or otherwise conduct any sanctioned activity in any of the sanctioned countries. However, to the extent such affiliated entities are involved in activities that, if performed by a U.S. person, would be illegal under U.S. sanctions, or if any of such affiliated entities becomes subject of any economic sanctions maintained by the United States or other countries or entities, reputational issues relating to Tianwei Yingli or us may arise, and the investor sentiment with respect to our ADSs may be affected. Investors in the United States may believe that the value of their investment in us may be adversely affected due to our affiliation with such entities, or they may choose not to invest in, and to divest any investments in, issuers that are associated even indirectly with sanctioned activities or sanctioned countries. Any negative investor sentiment as the result of such reputational issues may cause the price of our ADSs to decline and adversely affect the value or your investment in us. Our joint venture partner, Tianwei Baobian, has entered into competing businesses with us which may adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our joint venture contract with Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Yingli’s articles of association does not impose non-competition restrictions upon Tianwei Baobian. While Tianwei Baobian’s current principal business is the manufacture of large electricity transformers, Tianwei Baobian has entered into the PV business 24 Table of Contents through investments in various companies that are engaged in the manufacture of polysilicon, ingots, wafers, PV cells or PV modules and thin film modules. As these companies continue to expand their business, they may compete with us for both supply of raw materials and customers, and we may not have any legal right to prevent them from doing so. In addition, the parent of Tianwei Baobian has also made investments in the PV business. Because of Tianwei Baobian’s familiarity with and its ability to influence Tianwei Yingli’s business, competition from Tianwei Baobian or its affiliates could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The grant of employee share options and other share-based compensation could adversely affect our net income. We adopted our 2006 stock incentive plan in December 2006. Our board of directors approved in April 2007 and our shareholders approved in May 2007 amendment No. 1 to the 2006 stock incentive plan to increase the number of ordinary shares we are authorized to issue under the 2006 stock incentive plan. Our board of directors approved in July 2009 and our shareholders approved in August 2009 amendment No. 2 to the 2006 stock incentive plan to increase the number of ordinary shares we are authorized to issue under the 2006 stock incentive plan. Under the 2006 stock incentive plan, as amended, we may grant to our directors, employees and consultants up to 2,715,243 restricted shares and options to purchase up to 10,030,195 of our ordinary shares. As of the date of this annual report, we have granted to 9 executive officers, 242 employees, 13 non-employee and 4 independent directors options to purchase 5,193,800 ordinary shares in the aggregate (excluding forfeited options) and an aggregate of 513,316 restricted but unvested shares (excluding forfeited restricted shares) to DBS Trustee Limited, or the trustee, for the benefit of 66 directors, officers, employees and one non-employee. See “Item 6.B. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers — 2006 Stock Incentive Plan.” We account for compensation costs for all share-based awards including share options granted to our directors and employees using a fair-value based method, which may have a material and adverse effect on our reported earnings. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of such incentive plan to us. However, if we reduce the scope of our stock incentive plan, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel, as share options are an important tool to recruit and retain qualified and desirable employees. New labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the PRC government promulgated a new labor law, namely, the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the New Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Implementation Rules of the New Labor Contract Law were subsequently promulgated and became effective on September 18, 2008. The PRC government also promulgated the Law on Mediation and Arbitration of Labor Disputes on December 29, 2007, which came into effect on May 1, 2008. The New Labor Contract Law imposes stricter requirements in terms of, among other things, signing labor contracts, minimum wages, paying remuneration, stipulating probation and penalties and dissolving labor contracts. It also requires the terms of employment contracts to be placed in writing within one month of the commencement of an employment relationship, which may make hiring temporary workers more difficult. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have served more than one year for an employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on the number of the employee’s working years at the employer. Employees who waive such vacation time at the request of employers shall be compensated for three times their regular salaries for each waived vacation day. As a result of these new measures designed to enhance labor protection, our labor costs have increased, which may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. These newly enacted labor laws and regulations also impose greater liabilities on employers and may significantly increase the costs to an employer if it decides to reduce its workforce. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce, the New Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost effective manner, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Our results of operations are difficult to predict, and if we do not meet the market expectations, the price of our ADSs or our convertible notes will likely decline. Our results of operations are difficult to predict and have fluctuated from time to time in the past. We expect that our results of operations may continue to fluctuate from time to time in the future. It is possible that our results of operations in some reporting periods will be below market expectations. Our results of operations will be affected by a number of factors as set forth in “Item 5 — Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” If our results of operations for a particular reporting period are lower than the market expectations for such reporting period, investors may react negatively, and as a result, the price of our ADSs or our convertible notes may materially decline. Evaluating our business and prospects may be difficult because of our limited operating history. There is limited historical information available about us upon which you can base your evaluation of our business and prospects. We started selling PV modules in January 2003 and have experienced a high growth rate since then. As a result, our historical results of operations may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. We may not be able to achieve a similar growth rate in future periods and at higher volumes. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a rapidly developing market. Our limited intellectual property protection inside and outside of China may undermine our competitive position and subject us to intellectual property disputes with third parties, both of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As of May 2, 2011, we had a total of 60 issued patents in China and had made 70 patent applications. Other than the know-how available in the public domain, we have developed in-house unpatented technical know-how that we use to manufacture our products. Many elements of our manufacturing processes involve proprietary know-how, technology or data, either developed by us in-house or transferred to us by our equipment suppliers, which are not covered by patents or patent applications, including manufacturing technologies and processes and production line and equipment designs. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, anti-unfair competition and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. Nevertheless, these measures provide only limited protection and the actions we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or our other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Policing the unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as our other resources away from our business. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. An adverse determination in any such litigation could result in the loss of our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. We have exported, and expect to continue to export, a substantial portion of our PV products outside of China. Because we do not have, and have not applied for, any patents for our proprietary technologies outside of China, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies and obtain patents for such intellectual properties in other jurisdictions, including the countries to which we export our PV modules. If any third parties are successful in obtaining patents for technologies that are substantially equivalent to or the same as our proprietary technologies in any of our markets before we are and enforce their intellectual property rights against us, our ability to sell products containing the allegedly infringing intellectual property in those markets will be materially and adversely affected. If we are required to stop selling such allegedly infringing products, seek license and pay royalties for the relevant intellectual properties or redesign such products with non- 26 Table of Contents infringing technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to use and develop technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to PV technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. The steps we take in our product development to ensure that we are not infringing the existing intellectual property rights of others, such as review of related patents and patent applications prior to our product developments, may not be adequate. While we are not currently aware of any action pending or threatened against us, we may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time-consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our PV modules or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our PV modules or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also cause our customers or potential customers to defer or limit their purchase or use of our PV modules until the resolution of such litigation. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and key technical personnel, and our ability to maintain a skilled labor force. Our business may be materially and adversely affected if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers, in particular Liansheng Miao, our chief executive officer, Xiangdong Wang, our vice president, Zhiheng Zhao, our vice president, Zongwei Li, our chief financial officer, Xiaoqiang Zheng, our chief operating officer, Dengyuan Song, our chief technology officer and Jingfeng Xiong, our vice president. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. In addition, if any of our executive officers join a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any disputes were to arise between one of our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you of the extent to which such officer’s employment agreement could be enforced in China. Furthermore, recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly experienced engineers and technicians familiar with our PV products manufacturing processes, is vital to maintaining the quality of our PV products and to continuously improving our production methods. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain qualified technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, key technical personnel and our executive officers, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Failure to manage our growth, or otherwise develop appropriate internal organizational structures, internal control environment and risk monitoring and management systems in line with our fast growth could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and operations have been expanding rapidly. Significant management resources must be expended to develop and implement appropriate structures for internal organization and information flow, an effective internal control environment and risk monitoring and management systems in line with our fast 27 Table of Contents growth as well as to hire and integrate qualified employees into our organization. It is challenging for us to hire, integrate and retain qualified employees in key areas of operations, such as engineers and technicians who are familiar with the PV industry. In addition, disclosure and other ongoing obligations associated with being a public company further increase the challenges to our finance, legal and accounting team. It is possible that our existing risk monitoring and management system could prove to be inadequate. If we fail to appropriately develop and implement structures for internal organization and information flow, an effective internal control environment and a risk monitoring and management system, we may not be able to identify unfavorable business trends, administrative oversights or other risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with construction and environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with present or future construction and environment regulations may result in adverse publicity, potentially significant monetary damages and fines and supervision of our business operations. Historically, we had started construction and operation of certain of our facilities without having obtained all of the necessary construction permits as required under the relevant regulations. We are also constructing certain facilities as part of our capacity expansion projects while applying for the relevant construction permits. Both our prior and current failure to obtain the relevant construction permits before the commencement of construction of our facilities may subject us to fines or penalties, which may adversely affect our construction process, business operations and results of operations. In addition, the failure by us to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. Our manufacturing processes generate noise, waste water, gaseous and other industrial wastes and are required to comply with national and local regulations regarding environmental protection. We believe we are currently in compliance with present environmental protection requirements in all material respects, and have obtained all necessary environmental permits. In addition, if more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. If we fail to comply with any future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — PRC Government Regulations — Environmental Regulations”. Negative publicity of us, or our affiliates, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business and operating results. Negative publicity of us, or our affiliates, whether or not accurate and whether or not applicable to us, may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and financial condition. In addition, historically there has been negative publicity of us, and our affiliates. We cannot assure you that there will not be additional negative publicity of the similar nature in the future. Any such negative publicity, regardless of its veracity, could harm our reputation and in turn adversely affect our business and results of operations. The ordinary shares underlying our ADSs purchased or received upon the conversion of the convertible notes could become redeemable by us without your approval. Under the express terms of our ordinary shares, the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs in our issued and outstanding share capital are not, and the ordinary shares receivable upon the conversion of the convertible notes will not be, redeemable. However, our board of directors may pass resolutions to allow us to redeem the ordinary shares from the holders and two-thirds of the votes cast by the holders of the ordinary shares may approve such variation of share rights. The minority shareholders will not be able to prevent their share rights being varied in such a way and their ordinary shares could become redeemable by us as a result. 28 Table of Contents We have adopted a shareholders rights plan, which, together with the other anti-takeover provisions of our articles of association, could discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our current articles of association contain provisions that limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. On October 17, 2007, our board of directors adopted a shareholders rights plan, which was amended on June 2, 2008. Under this rights plan, one right was distributed with respect to each of our ordinary shares outstanding at the closing of business on October 26, 2007. These rights entitle the holders to purchase ordinary shares from us at half of the market price at the time of purchase in the event that a person or group obtains ownership of 15% or more of our ordinary shares (including by acquisition of the ADSs representing an ownership interest in the ordinary shares) or enters into an acquisition transaction without the approval of our board of directors. This rights plan and the other anti-takeover provisions of our articles of association could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. Our existing authorized ordinary shares confer on the holders of our ordinary shares equal rights, privileges and restrictions. The shareholders have, by virtue of adoption of our third amended and restated articles of association, authorized the issuance of shares of par value of US$0.01 each without specifying any special rights, privileges and restrictions. Therefore, our board of directors may, without further action by our shareholders, issue our ordinary shares, or issue shares of such class and attach to such shares special rights, privileges or restrictions, which may be different from those associated with our ordinary shares. Preferred shares could also be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue ordinary shares or issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs and the notes may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. A simple majority of the holders of our shares who vote at a general meeting may sub-divide any of our shares into shares of a smaller par value and may determine that, among the shares so sub-divided, some of such shares may have preferred or other rights or restrictions that are different from those applicable to other such shares. Under our articles of association, a simple majority of the holders of our shares who vote at a general meeting may sub-divide any of our shares into shares of a smaller par value than is fixed by our articles of association, subject to the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands, and may by such resolution determine that, among the shares so sub-divided, some of such shares may have preferred or other rights or restrictions that are different from those applicable to the other such shares resulting from the sub-division. Any sub-divided shares will be allocated on a pro-rated basis among the holders of our shares, and a two-thirds vote of any class of shares having special rights or restrictions as a result of such sub-division will be required to further vary the special rights or restrictions attached to such shares. The purpose of this provision is to give flexibility to the shareholders to vary the share capital by effecting a sub-division and alter the rights attaching to the sub-divided shares in order to facilitate transactions where shareholders provide benefits or contribute assets to the Company in consideration of an enhancement of the rights of their shares rather than an issue of new shares. However, as the minority shareholders will not be able to prevent the majority shareholders from effecting such sub-division and designation of special rights or restrictions, such rights of our majority shareholders may discourage investors making an investment in us, which may have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs and the notes. The quorum for the general meeting of our shareholders is one-third of our issued voting shares. Accordingly, shareholder resolutions may be passed without the presence of the majority of our shareholders in person or by proxy. The quorum required for the general meeting of our shareholders is two shareholders entitled to vote and present in person or by proxy or, if the shareholder is a corporation, by its duly authorized representative 29 Table of Contents representing not less than one-third in nominal value of our total issued voting shares. Therefore, subject to obtaining the requisite approval from a majority of the shareholders so present, a shareholder resolution may be passed at our shareholder meetings without the presence of the majority of our shareholders present in person or by proxy. Such rights by the holders of the minority of our shares may discourage investors from making an investment in us, which may have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs and the notes. If a poll is not demanded at our shareholder meetings, voting will be by show of hands and shares will not be proportionately represented. Voting at any of our shareholder meetings is by show of hands unless a poll is demanded. A poll may be demanded by the chairperson of the meeting, or by at least three shareholders present in person or by proxy, or by any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy holding at least 10% of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right to vote at the meeting, or by a shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on the shares conferring that right. If a poll is demanded, each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote for each ordinary share registered in his name. If a poll is not demanded, voting will be by show of hands and each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote regardless of the number of shares registered in his name. In the absence of a poll, shares will therefore not be proportionately represented. If we are or become a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, it could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We believe that we were not a PFIC for our taxable year ended on December 31, 2010, and we do not expect to become one for our current taxable year or in the future, although there can be no assurance in this regard. If, however, we are or become a PFIC, U.S. investors could be subject to additional U.S. federal income taxes on gain recognized with respect to the ADSs or ordinary shares and on certain distributions, plus an interest charge on certain taxes treated as having been deferred under the PFIC rules. Non-corporate U.S. investors will not be eligible for reduced rates of taxation on any dividends received from us, if we are a PFIC in the taxable year in which such dividends are paid or in the preceding taxable year. U.S. investors are urged to consult their tax advisors concerning the U.S. federal income tax consequences of holding ADSs or ordinary shares if we are considered a PFIC in any taxable year. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Our business is based in China and some of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the level of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 20 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial 30 Table of Contents condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In addition, we cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform, or that if there is a slowdown, such slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. For example, due to the impact of the global financial crisis, the growth rate of China’s gross domestic product has slowed down in recent years, from 9.6% in 2008 to 8.7% in 2009. As a result, beginning in September 2008, among other measures, the PRC government began to loosen macroeconomic measures and monetary policies by reducing interest rates and decreasing the statutory reserve rates for banks. Although the growth rate of China’s gross domestic product rebounded to 10.3% in 2010, there is uncertainty with respect to the Chinese economic policies for 2011 and beyond. We cannot assure you that the various macroeconomic measures, monetary policies and economic stimulus package adopted by the PRC government to guide economic growth and the allocation of resources will be effective in sustaining the fast growth rate of the Chinese economy. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of renewable energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We are incorporated in Cayman Islands and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to Sino-foreign equity joint venture companies and wholly foreign owned companies. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. The PRC rule on mergers and acquisitions may subject us to sanctions, fines and other penalties and affect our future business growth through acquisition of complementary business. On August 8, 2006, six PRC government and regulatory authorities, including the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, and the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, promulgated a rule entitled “Provisions regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors”, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009. The M&A Rule, as amended, among other things, established procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. Complying with 31 Table of Contents the requirements of the M&A Rule, as amended, to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit the completion of such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. PRC regulations relating to overseas investment by PRC residents may restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities and adversely affect the implementation of our strategy as well as our business and prospects. In 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a number of rules regarding offshore investments by PRC residents. The rule currently in effect, the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted Via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, known as SAFE Notice 75, was issued in October 2005 and the complementation procedures of such rules have been further clarified by Circular No. 106 issued by SAFE on May 29, 2007. SAFE Notice 75 requires PRC residents to register with and/or receive approvals from SAFE in connection with certain offshore investment activities. Since we are a Cayman Islands company with a substantial portion of shares held by Yingli Power Holding Company Ltd., a British Virgin Islands company controlled by Mr. Liansheng Miao, our chairperson and chief executive officer and a PRC resident, Mr. Miao is subject to the registration requirements under SAFE Notice 75. Mr. Miao made the requisite SAFE registration with respect to his investment in Yingli Power Holding Company Ltd. and us in August 2006. Mr. Miao amended his SAFE registration in June 2007, January 2008 and October 2009, in connection with our initial public offering in June 2007, the secondary and convertible senior notes offerings in December 2007, the issuance of senior secured convertible notes and the follow-on offering in 2009, respectively. We have requested our other beneficial owners who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications and filings in connection with our offshore financing transactions as required under SAFE Notice 75 and its implementation rules. However, we cannot assure you that all of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents have complied with our request to apply for or obtain any registrations or approvals required under these or other regulations or legislation. If Mr. Miao or any of our other beneficial owners who are PRC residents fails to comply with the registration procedures set forth in SAFE Notice 75, Mr. Miao or such beneficial owner who is a PRC resident could be subject to fines and legal penalties and Tianwei Yingli could face restrictions on its foreign currency exchange activities, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its equity interest holders and Tianwei Yingli’s ability to receive capital from us. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, acquisition opportunities, financing alternatives and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — PRC Government Regulations — Regulation of Foreign Exchange in Certain Onshore and Offshore Transactions”. Dividends we may receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and its implementation rules provide that an income tax rate of 10% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises”, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, unless any such non-PRC investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Furthermore, a circular issued by the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation on February 22, 2008 stipulates that undistributed earnings generated prior to January 1, 2008 are exempt from enterprise income tax. We are a Cayman Islands holding company, Yingli International is a British Virgin Islands intermediate holding company and Cyber Lighting is a Hong Kong intermediate holding company. The Cayman Islands and the British Virgin Islands where such holding companies are incorporated do not have a tax treaty with China. According to the Arrangement between Mainland China and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income entered into in August 2006, or the Mainland and the Hong Kong Taxation Arrangement, subject to the confirmation of the in-charge local tax authority, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise 32 Table of Contents in China to its direct holding company in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of no more than 5%, the foreign investor is the “beneficial owner” and owns directly at least 25% the equity interest of the foreign-invested enterprise. Furthermore, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement in October 2009, or Circular 601, which provides guidance for determining whether a resident of a contracting state is the “beneficial owner” of an item of income under China’s tax treaties and tax arrangements. According to Circular 601, a beneficial owner generally must be engaged in substantive business activities. An agent or conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits. A conduit company normally refers to a company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits. Substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC. Thus, dividends for earnings accumulated beginning on January 1, 2008 payable to us by our subsidiaries in China, if any, will be subject to a 10% income tax or, in the case of the dividends paid to Cyber Lighting, 5% income tax (subject to the confirmation of the local tax authority), if we are considered as “non-resident enterprises” under the EIT Law. We intend to reinvest indefinitely undistributed earnings generated in 2010 and therefore have not recognized a deferred tax liability for those earnings. If we are subject under the EIT Law to such income tax for any dividends we may receive from our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely increase our income tax expense. We and some of our subsidiaries may be deemed resident enterprises under the EIT Law and be subject to PRC taxation as to our worldwide income. The EIT Law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation rules for the EIT Law issued by the State Council, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties and other factors of an enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Overseas Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or SAT Circular 82 which sets out criteria for determining whether “de facto management bodies” are located in China for overseas incorporated, domestically controlled enterprises. However, as this circular only applies to enterprises incorporated under laws of foreign countries or regions that are controlled by PRC enterprises or groups of PRC enterprises, it remains unclear how the tax authorities will determine the location of “de facto management bodies” for overseas incorporated enterprises that are controlled by individual PRC residents like us and some of our subsidiaries. Therefore, although substantially all of our management is currently located in the PRC, it remains unclear whether the PRC tax authorities would require or permit our overseas registered entities to be treated as PRC resident enterprises. If the PRC tax authorities determine that Yingli Green Energy and some of our subsidiaries, such as Yingli International, Yingli Capital, Yingli Hong Kong, Cyber Power and Cyber Lighting, are PRC resident enterprises, we and such subsidiaries may be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% as to our global income, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us would be exempt from the PRC dividend withholding tax, since such income distribution is exempted under the EIT Law if paid to PRC resident recipients. Dividends payable by us to non-PRC holders of our ordinary shares or ADS and gains on the sale of our ordinary shares or ADSs may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the EIT Law and implementation rules issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to payments of dividends to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such payments of dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or ordinary shares by such investors is also subject to the 10% PRC income tax if such gain constitutes income derived from sources within the PRC. It is currently unclear what constitutes income derived from sources 33 Table of Contents within the PRC. Therefore, it is unclear whether dividends we may pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. Furthermore, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement in October 2009, or Circular 601, which provides guidance for determining whether a resident of a contracting state is the “beneficial owner” of an item of income under China’s tax treaties and tax arrangements. According to Circular 601, a beneficial owner generally must be engaged in substantive business activities. An agent or conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits. A conduit company normally refers to a company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits. We cannot assure you that any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders whose jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China providing for a different withholding arrangement will be entitled to the benefits under the relevant withholding arrangement. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to non-PRC holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. The strengthened scrutiny over acquisition transactions by the PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on our acquisition strategy. In order to strengthen their scrutiny over the direct or indirect transfer of equity interest in a PRC resident enterprise by a non-resident enterprise, the PRC State Administration of Taxation issued, on December 10, 2009, the Notice on Strengthening the Management on Enterprise Income Tax for Non-resident Enterprises Equity Transfer, or Circular 698, which became effective retroactively on January 1, 2008. Under Circular 698, the PRC State Administration of Taxation has the authority to redefine the nature of an equity transfer where offshore vehicles are interposed for tax-avoidance purposes and without reasonable commercial purpose. Since we consistently pursue acquisitions as one of our growth strategies, and have conducted and may conduct acquisitions involving complex corporate structures, the PRC tax authorities may, at their discretion, adjust the capital gains or request us to submit additional documentation for their review in connection with any of our acquisitions, thus causing us to incur additional acquisition costs. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive dividends from our PRC subsidiaries and their ability to obtain overseas financing. Under the Foreign Currency Administration Rules, the foreign exchange incomes of domestic entities and individuals can be remitted into China or deposited abroad, subject to the terms and conditions to be issued by SAFE. Our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends to their shareholders, including us, in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions, including payment of such dividends. Foreign exchange transactions for capital account items, such as direct equity investments, loans and repatriation of investments, by our PRC subsidiaries continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of PRC governmental authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our PRC subsidiaries borrow foreign currency-denominated loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with the local offices of SAFE. These limitations could affect their ability to obtain additional equity or debt funding that is denominated in foreign currencies. PRC regulation of direct investment and loans by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or limit us from making additional capital contributions or loans to our PRC subsidiaries. Any capital contributions or loans that we, as an offshore entity, make to our PRC subsidiaries, are subject to PRC regulations. For example, any of our loans to our PRC subsidiaries cannot exceed the 34 Table of Contents difference between the total amount of investment our PRC subsidiaries are approved to make under relevant PRC laws and the respective registered capital of our PRC subsidiaries, and must be registered with the local branch of SAFE as a procedural matter. In addition, our capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries must be approved by MOFCOM or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these approvals on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to obtain such approvals, our ability to make equity contributions or provide loans to our PRC subsidiaries or to fund their operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect their liquidity and its ability to fund its working capital and expansion projects and meet its obligations and commitments. In addition, our capital contributions and, in limited circumstances, loans, to Tianwei Yingli are also subject to approvals by Tianwei Baobian, the holder of the minority equity interest in Tianwei Yingli. See “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company — Joint Venture Contract — Increase or Reduction of Tianwei Yingli’s Registered Capital.” We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC operating subsidiaries and limitations on their ability to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are a holding company and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC operating subsidiaries, including Tianwei Yingli, Yingli China, Fine Silicon and Hainan Yingli New Energy Resources Co., Ltd., or Hainan Yingli, a PRC limited liability company and a majority-owned subsidiary of Yingli China, for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. If Tianwei Yingli, Yingli China, Fine Silicon or Hainan Yingli incurs debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. As entities established in China, Tianwei Yingli, Yingli China, Fine Silicon and Hainan Yingli are subject to certain limitations with respect to dividend payments. PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. As a Sino-foreign equity joint venture, Tianwei Yingli is also required to set aside each year a percentage, as decided by its board of directors, of its after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards to its reserve fund, enterprise development fund and employee bonus and welfare fund. As of December 31, 2010, such restricted reserves of Tianwei Yingli amounted to RMB 240.9 million (US$36.5 million) and its accumulated profits that were unrestricted and were available for distribution amounted to RMB 3,173.7 million (US$480.9 million). As a foreign investment enterprise, each of Yingli China and Fine Silicon is required to allocate at least 10% of its after-tax profits to its reserve fund until the cumulative amount of such reserve fund reaches 50% of its registered capital, and to set aside a certain amount of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to its employee bonus and welfare fund. These reserves may not be distributed as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2010, such restricted reserves of Yingli China amounted to RMB 123.5 million (US$18.7 million), and its accumulated profits that was unrestricted and was available for distribution amounted to RMB 1,027.3 million (US$155.7 million). As a PRC domestic company, Hainan Yingli is required to allocate at least 10% of its after-tax profits to its reserve fund until the cumulative amount of such reserve fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves may not be distributed as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2010, such restricted reserves of Hainan Yingli amounted to RMB 12.0 million (US$1.8 million) and its accumulated profits that were unrestricted and were available for distribution amounted to RMB 107.1 million (US$16.2 million). In addition, if any of our PRC operating subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Limitations on the ability of our PRC operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Accordingly, if for any of the above or other reasons, we can not receive dividends from our PRC operating subsidiaries, our liquidity, financial condition and ability to make dividend distributions to our shareholders will be materially and adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents SAFE rules and regulations may limit our ability to convert and transfer the net proceeds from our financings to our PRC subsidiaries, which may adversely affect the business expansions of our PRC subsidiaries, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from our financings into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, or SAFE Notice 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. The notice requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of SAFE Notice 142 may result in severe penalties, such as heavy fines. As SAFE Notice 142 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from our financings to our PRC subsidiaries, the business expansions of our PRC subsidiaries may be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from our financings into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies. All employee participants in our existing stock option plans who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional option plans for our directors and employees under PRC law. On March 28, 2007, SAFE issued the Operating Procedures on Administration of Foreign Exchange regarding PRC Individuals’ Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plan and Stock Option Plan of Overseas Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rule. It is not clear whether the Stock Option Rule covers any type of equity compensation plans or incentive plans which provide for the grant of ordinary share options or authorize the grant of restricted share awards. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by an overseas listed company, the Stock Option Rule requires the employee participants who are PRC citizens to register with SAFE or its local branch within ten days of the beginning of each quarter. In addition, the Stock Option Rule also requires the employee participants who are PRC citizens to follow a series of requirements on making necessary applications for foreign exchange purchase quota, opening special bank account and filings with SAFE or its local branch before they exercise their stock option. The failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and the participants of our employee stock option plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from further granting options under our employee stock option plan to our employees, which could adversely affect our business operations. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks of contagious diseases, including avian influenza, or avian flu, swine influenza, or swine flu, and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak. During 2007 and early 2008, there have been reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian flu, caused by the H5N1 virus, in certain regions of Asia and Europe. In 2005 and 2006, there were reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. In 2009 and 2010, there have been reports on the occurrences of swine flu, caused by the H1N1 virus, in Mexico, the United States, China and certain other countries and regions around the world. An outbreak of avian flu or swine flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, any recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 which affected China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, would also have similar adverse effects. These outbreaks of contagious diseases, and other adverse public health developments in China, would have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include restrictions on our ability to travel or to ship our products outside of China, as well as cause temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results 36 Table of Contents of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, swine flu, SARS or any other epidemic. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been and will continue to be highly volatile. Since our ADSs became listed on the NYSE on June 8, 2007, the trading prices of our ADSs have ranged from US$2.50 to US$41.50 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on May 10, 2011 was US$11.36 per ADS. The price of our ADSs may continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the conversion efficiencies of our products or those of our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; • changes in financial projections or estimates about our financial or operational performance by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other PV technology companies; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs in the public market in the future, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of the date of this annual report, we had 158,190,387 ordinary shares outstanding, including 103,901,895 ordinary shares represented by ADSs. All ADSs sold in our public offerings are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. All of the remaining ordinary shares outstanding are, subject to the applicable requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, available for sale. Under the terms of the note purchase agreement with Trustbridge, we have issued an aggregate amount of US$49.4 million of senior secured convertible notes due 2012 to Trustbridge or its affiliates. In June 2009, we issued 2,000,000 ordinary shares to Trustbridge as a result of the conversion of approximately US$8.7 million of the senior secured convertible notes. In the third quarter of 2010, we issued 6,000,688 ordinary shares to Trustbridge as a result of the conversion of US$26.2 million of the senior secured convertible notes. As of the date of this annual report, approximately US$14.6 million of the senior secured convertible notes were outstanding. We would be required to issue an aggregate of 3,339,503 ordinary shares to Trustbridge or its affiliates upon the conversion of our senior secured convertible notes, assuming all such notes are converted at the adjusted conversion rate of 22,933 ordinary shares per US$100,000 in principal amount of the senior secured convertible notes. In connection with a credit agreement between Yingli Capital and ADM Capital, we have issued 4,125,000 warrants to ADM Capital under the terms of a warrant agreement entered into in April 2009. Each warrant provides for the right to acquire one ordinary share at an initial strike price of US$5.64, which is based on the 37 Table of Contents 20- trading day volume weighted average closing price per ADS on the New York Stock Exchange for the period prior to the issuance of the warrant, subject to customary anti-dilution and similar adjustments. In June 2009, we and ADM Capital revised the warrant agreement and modified the terms so that (i) the initial strike price decreased from US$5.64 per share to US$5.06 per share, (ii) upon the exercise of the put option by the warrant holders, we may, at its sole discretion, elect to settle the put price in (i) cash, (ii) shares or (iii) a combination of cash and shares and (iii) the number of ordinary shares we are obligated to issue upon the exercise of the put option by the warrant holders was capped. We may at our discretion settle the warrants in cash, ordinary shares or a mix of cash and ordinary shares. In May 2010, 498,612 ordinary shares in the form of ADSs were issued to ADM Capital in connection with its exercise of 825,000 warrants. In November 2010, 511,599 ordinary shares in the form of ADS were issued to ADM Capital in connection with its exercise of 825,000 warrants. In May 2011, 1,444,060 ordinary shares in the form of ADSs were issued to ADM Capital in connection with its exercise of 2,475,000 warrants. As a result, nil warrants remain outstanding as of the date of this annual report. All ordinary shares issued in connection with conversion of our senior secured convertible notes or the settlement in shares of any warrants granted to ADM Capital will be available for sale promptly after issuance, subject to compliance with applicable securities laws and rules. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. As a holder of ADSs, you will not be treated as one of our shareholders and you will not have shareholder rights. Instead, the depositary will be treated as the holder of the shares underlying your ADSs. However, you may exercise some shareholders’ rights through the depositary, and you will have the right to withdraw the shares underlying your ADSs from the deposit facility. Under our current articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting will be ten days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We plan to make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless: • we have failed to provide the depositary with the notice of meeting and related voting materials at least 30 days prior to the date of such shareholders’ meeting; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse effect on shareholders; or • voting at the meeting is made on a show of hands. 38 Table of Contents The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence our management. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration required for such distribution cannot be obtained after reasonable efforts are made by the depositary. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. As a holder of our ADSs, your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, as a holder of our ADSs, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. 39 Table of Contents We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, shareholders of a Cayman Islands company may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a company incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. For example, contrary to the general practice in most corporations incorporated in the United States, Cayman Islands law does not require that shareholders approve sales of all or substantially all of a company’s assets. The limitations described above will also apply to the depositary who is treated as the holder of the shares underlying your ADSs. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States and a substantial majority of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 