ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain various "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations or beliefs concerning future events. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as "anticipate, " "believe, " "estimate, " "expect, " "intend, " "may, " "could, " "possible, " "plan, " "project, " "will, " "forecast" and similar words or expressions. Our forward-looking statements generally relate to our growth strategy, financial results, sales efforts, store openings and related expenses, and cash requirements. Although it is not possible to foresee all of the factors that may cause actua l results to differ from our forward-looking statements, such factors include, among others, the risk factors that follow. Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and speak only as of the date on which they are made. We May Not Be Able To Manage Our Growth Our Company's expansion strategy will depend upon our ability to open and operate additional restaurants profitably. The opening of new restaurants will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others, the availability of management, restaurant staff and other personnel, the cost and availability of 9 suitable restaurant locations, cost effective and timely planning, design and build-out of restaurants, acceptable leasing or financial terms, acceptable financing and securing required governmental permits. Although we have formulated our business plans and expansion strategies based on certain assumptions, we anticipate that, as with most business ventures, we will be subject to changing conditions. Our assessments regarding timing and the opening of new restaurants as well as a variety of other factors may not prove to be correct, and/or such new restaurants may not be operated profitably. Uncertainty of Market Acceptance In the course of expansion of our concept, we will enter new markets in which we may have limited operating experience. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve success in our new markets or in our new stores. New restaurants typically require several months of operation before achieving normal profitability. When we enter highly competitive new markets or territories in which we have not yet established a market presence, the adverse effects on revenue and profit margins may be greater and more prolonged than anticipated. Competition The food service industry is intensely competitive. Because of the nature of our concept as "fast casual," we will compete with national casual dining chains, such as Applebee's, T.G.I. Friday's and Chili's, national fast food chains, such as McDonald's, Burger King and Arby's, as well as local chains and independently-operated restaurants. Competition in the casual dining and fast food segments of the restaurant industry is expected to remain intense with respect to price, service, location, concept and the type and quality of food. There is also intense competition for real estate sites, qualified management personnel and hourly restaurant staff. Some of our competitors have been in existence longer than we have and they may be better established in markets where we are currently or may be located in the future. Further, many of these competitors have greater financial and other resources and market presence than we have. Government Regulations The restaurant industry is subject to numerous federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and alcoholic beverages, sanitation, public health, fire codes, zoning and building requirements. Termination of the liquor license for any restaurant would adversely affect the revenues of that restaurant and failure to obtain such licenses would adversely affect our expansion plans. We are also subject to laws governing our relationships with employees, including benefit, wage and hour laws, and laws and regulations relating to workers' compensation insurance rates, unemployment and other taxes, working and safety conditions and citizenship or immigration status. If legislation is enacted to remove the tip credit (the difference between minimum wage and tipped employee minimum wage), our cost of labor would increase dramatically and adversely affect our profits. In certain states we ma y be subject to "dram-shop" statutes, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person has the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. While we carry liquor liability coverage, a judgment against us under a dram shop statute in excess of our insurance coverage, or any inability to continue to obtain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, could have a material adverse effect on us. Failure to comply with any of these regulations or increases in the minimum wage rate, employee benefit costs or other costs associated with employees, could adversely us. Unionization of the Hourly Work Force The possible enactment of the Employee Free Choice Act (EFCA) could have a material impact on our business. This proposed "card check" legislation would eliminate our Team Members' fundamental right to a private ballot election in deciding whether or not to join a union. If the law resulted in the unionization of our workforce, it would increase our costs significantly and reduce our ability to generate a profit. Certain Factors Affecting the Restaurant Industry The restaurant industry is affected by national, regional and local economic conditions, changing consumer tastes and spending priorities, health concerns and trends, demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants. Multi-unit chains such as ours can also be adversely affected by publicity resulting from food quality, illness, injury or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of 10 restaurants. Dependence on fresh produce and meats also subjects us to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply, particularly of chicken wings and ground beef, caused by unfavorable weather or other conditions, could adversely affect the availability, quality or cost of food supplies. In addition, factors such as inflation, increased food, labor and employee benefit costs, and the availability of qualified management and hourly employees may also adversely affect the restaurant industry in general and our restaurants in particular. We may be the subject of litigation based on discrimination, personal injury and other claims. None of the foregoing factors can be predicted with any degree of certainty and any one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our continued success will depend in part on our ability to identify and respond appropriate ly to changing conditions. Need For Additional Financing We currently plan to open one (1) new restaurant in 2009. The Company anticipates that cash from operations, equipment leasing, lender based financing and landlord construction contributions (when available) will be sufficient to fund our expansion plans for 2009. These estimates may prove to be inaccurate. Availability of credit may be limited due to the unstable U.S. economy and new restrictions placed on traditional lending sources. To continue the expansion at the same or higher level, we anticipate that additional funding will be necessary. We may not be able to obtain such additional financing or we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms. Dependence on Key Personnel Our ability to develop and market our products and to maintain a competitive position depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. In particular, we are presently dependent upon the services of T. Michael Ansley and Jason T. Curtis. We do not have employment agreements with and do not maintain key person insurance on any of our employees. Our inability to retain the full-time services of any of these people or attract other qualified individuals could have an adverse effect on us, and there would likely be a difficult transition period in finding replacements for any of them. In an effort to attract and retain key personnel, our Articles of Incorporation limit the personal liability of our directors and our Bylaws provide that each director, officer and employee of the Company shall be indemnified by the Company to the fullest ex tent permissible by applicable law. Trademarks, Service Marks and Trade Secrets We place considerable value on our trademarks, service marks and trade secrets. We intend to actively enforce and defend our intellectual property. We may not be successful in enforcing our intellectual property rights. Our intellectual property may not be of value and our use of our property may be determined to violate the property rights of others if our rights are challenged. Adverse Effect of Undesignated Stock and Anti-Takeover Provisions Our authorized capital includes 10,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the power to issue any or all of the shares of preferred stock, including the authority to establish one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, without seeking stockholder approval. Further, as a Nevada corporation, the Company is subject to provisions of the Nevada Business Corporations Act ("NBCA") regarding "control share acquisitions" and "business combinations." In the future we may consider adopting anti-takeover measures. The authority of the Board to issue undesignated stock and the anti-takeover provisions of the NBCA, as well as any future anti-takeover measures adopted by us, may, in certain circumstances, delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in our control which is not approved by management and the Board of Directors. As a result, our stockholders may lose opportunities to dispose of their shares at favorable prices generally available in takeover attempts or that may be available under a merger proposal and the market price, voting and other rights of the holders of Common Stock may also be affected. See "Description of Securities." No Assurance of Profitability We may experience operating losses as we develop and implement our business plan. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. 11 Possible Issuance of Additional Shares without Stockholder Approval Could Dilute Stockholders As of the date of this prospectus, we have an aggregate of 18,070,000 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, we have outstanding warrants to purchase an additional 800,000 shares of common stock, and our directors have options to purchase an additional 150,000 share of common stock. Although there are currently no other material plans, agreements, commitments or undertakings with respect to the issuance of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into any such shares, if any shares are issued in the future, they would further dilute the percentage ownership of our common stock held by our stockholders. Penny Stock Regulations Could Inhibit the Trading Of Our Stock in the Secondary Market The SEC has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks". Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). Prior to a transaction in a penny stock, a broker-dealer is required to: - deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market; - provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock; - explain the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction; - provide monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account; and - make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. We expect our shares to be subject to the penny stock rules and as such investors may find it more difficult to sell their shares. Legal Actions Could Have an Adverse Affect on Us We could face legal action from a franchisor, government agency, employee or customer. Many state and federal laws govern our industry and if we fail to comply with these laws we could be liable for damages or penalties. Further, we may face litigation from customers alleging that we were responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants, or that we have problems with food quality or operations. We may also face litigation resulting from employer-employee relations, including age discrimination, sexual harassment, gender discrimination or local, state and federal labor law violations as an example. Expensive litigation may adversely affect both our revenue and profits. An Increase in the Cost of Our Food Products Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results If the cost of chicken wings or beef increases, our cost of sales will increase and operating income could be reduced. Our primary food products are fresh chicken wings and ground beef. Any material increase in the cost of fresh chicken wings or ground beef could adversely affect operating results. Our cost of sales could be significantly affected by increases in the cost of fresh chicken wings and ground beef, which can result from a number of factors, including seasonality, increases in the cost of grain, disease and other factors that affect availability, and greater international demand for domestic chicken and beef products. We also depend on our franchisor, as it relates to chicken wings, to negotiate prices and deliver product to us at a reasonable cost. Chicken wing prices averaged $1.27 per pound in the fourth quarter of 2008, $0.03 per pound higher than the same period in 2007. Buffalo Wild Wings chicken wing purchase contract expired afte r the March 2008 quarter and we are currently buying product at the spot rate. Wing costs averaged $1.55 per pound in January and February, 2009 and may reach or exceed $1.75 per pound in March, 2009. This increase will negatively impact our profits in the first quarter of 2009. 12 Failure to Gain Acceptance in Florida Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Operations The Buffalo Wild Wings concept may not gain acceptance in the Florida market. If we fail to gain acceptance in the Florida market, this could impede our financial performance. The Bagger Dave's Concept May Not Be Accepted The Bagger Dave's concept developed by us may not be accepted. We have recently opened our first two Bagger Dave's restaurants and it is too early to determine whether the general public will accept this concept. If the public does not accept the Bagger Dave's concept, this would have a severe negative impact on our financial performance. If We Are Unable To Open New Restaurants in a Timely Manner, We May Suffer Negative Consequences If we are unable to successfully open new restaurants in a timely manner, our revenue growth rate and profits may be adversely affected. To successfully expand our business we must open restaurants in a timely and profitable manner. In the past we have experienced delays in restaurant openings and we may face similar delays in the future. These delays may trigger financial penalties by the franchisor as provided in Area Development Agreements. These delays may not meet the expectations of stock analysts, which may negatively affect our stock price. Further, future restaurants may not meet operating results similar to those of existing locations. Our ability to expand successfully will depend on the following factors: · Locating and securing quality locations in new and existing markets; · Negotiating acceptable leases or purchase agreements; · Securing acceptable financing for new locations; · Cost effective designs by us and franchisors; · Timely planning and build-out of restaurants; · Obtaining and maintaining required local, state and federal government approvals and permits related to construction of the restaurants and the sale of food and alcoholic beverages; · Creating brand awareness in new markets; · General economic conditions; The Opening of Other Restaurants Close To Our Existing Restaurants May Reduce Our Operating Performance New restaurants added to our existing markets, whether by us, other franchisees or the franchisors may take sales away from our restaurants. We intend to open restaurants in our existing markets and this may impact revenues earned by our existing restaurants. Also, the franchisor or other franchisees could open restaurants in neighboring territories that may affect the sales of our existing restaurants as well. These activities may reduce overall operational performance. Actions by the Franchisor Could Negatively Affect Our Business and Operating Results Our BWW restaurant business depends in part on decisions made by our franchisor, and these decisions affect the integrity of each individual brand. Business decisions made by each franchisor could adversely impact our operating performance. We are dependent on the individual success of each brand. Compliance with Sarbanes Oxley May Be Costly The application of new accounting standards and unforeseen regulation may impact our operating performance and profits. As we move forward we will be implementing accounting procedures to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These procedures may require us to incur substantial audit and internal control related expenses in the future. If We Fail To Attract and Retain Qualified Employees, We Will Be Unable To Operate Effectively The success of our restaurants depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified restaurant employees, including managers, kitchen staff and wait staff. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified 13 personnel to operate and manage our restaurants. Our inability to recruit and retain these individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants and increase turnover at existing restaurants. This could impact our expansion strategy and lead to higher labor costs, which would negatively impact our operating results. Further, the loss of any or our key executive officers would likely adversely impact our performance. Changes in Consumer Preferences or Discretionary Consumer Spending Could Negatively Impact Our Business The success of our business depends, in part, upon the popularity of both Buffalo, New York-style chicken wings and hamburgers. We also depend on trends of consumers eating away from home more often. Shifts away from these current trends could impact our sales negatively. These shifts may include consumer dietary changes as they avoid foods with high cholesterol, fat or carbohydrate content, which are offered on our menus. Negative publicity related to these issues could also impact our financial performance. Smoking bans by state or local governments could adversely affect our performance as well. Economic conditions could affect consumer discretionary spending, which could impact the amount of money they have to spend in our restaurants, again negatively impacting our revenue and profits. We Are Susceptible To Adverse Trends and Economic Conditions in Michigan and Florida All of our restaurants are and will be located in Michigan and Florida. The Michigan economy is tied to a large degree to the automobile industry. This area is susceptible to strikes, industry lay-offs and possibly auto company bankruptcies, which could negatively affect customer counts and consumer discretionary spending, and which in turn would adversely impact our revenue and profits. The Florida economy is heavily tied to the real estate markets. Any decline in the residential real estate market may have a negative impact on our individual customer base, whether through loss of value or lack of new construction jobs, and may result in decreased sales at our Florida locations. We Could Be Adversely Impacted By Weather in Florida Our locations in Florida are and will be located in the Tampa, Sarasota and Bradenton markets along the Gulf of Mexico. This area is prone to tropical storm and hurricane conditions and the impact from such storms could cause substantial damage to one or more restaurants and this could negatively impact our financial performance. Further, future property insurance deductibles and premiums could negatively impact our profits. Our Ability to Raise Capital In The Future May Be Limited, Which Could Adversely Impact Our Business Changes in our operating plans, acceleration of our expansion plans, lower than anticipated sales, increased expenses or other events, including those described in this section, may cause us to seek additional debt or equity financing. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could negatively impact our growth and other plans as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Additional equity financing, if available may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock and may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants and/or financial ratios that restrict our ability to operate and expand. Our Current Insurance May Not Provide Adequate Levels of Coverage against Claims We currently maintain insurance that is customary, required in our franchise agreements and leases. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure against, such as losses due to natural disasters or terrorism. Such damages from loses may cause direct economic impact to us and our restaurants. Improper Food Handling May Affect Our Business Adversely There are health risks associated with eating improperly handled or prepared food items. Negative publicity resulting from improper handling of food items may adversely affect our sales and impact our revenue and profits negatively. Although we carry insurance for these types of events, the coverage may not be sufficient and we may sustain losses. 14 Risks of Continuing Losses and Financial Covenant Violations The Company was not in compliance with one of the covenants of its debt agreements with GE Capital Corporation at December 31, 2008. Waivers were received for the applicable period. There can be no assurances that in the future the Company will be in compliance with all covenants of its current or future debt agreements or that its lenders would waive any violations of such covenants. Non-compliance with debt covenants by the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 