D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Us and the PV Industry Adverse economic conditions in our target markets as well as an increased supply of PV modules have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Demand for our products substantially depends on the general economic conditions in our target markets. The economies of many countries around the world, including those in our target markets, experienced a period of slow economic growth and adverse credit market conditions as a result of the global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 and the subsequent sovereign debt crisis in Europe. As PV system projects generally require significant upfront capital expenditures, our customers have historically relied on financing for the purchase of our products. As a result of weakened macroeconomic conditions and in particular the adverse credit market conditions, our customers experienced difficulty in obtaining financing on attractive terms or at all. As a result, the growth in demand for PV modules has declined significantly since the fourth quarter of 2008. Although the credit market conditions improved since the second quarter of 2009, which contributed to an increase in the demand for our products, the demand for our products slowed down again in the first quarter and the fourth quarter of 2011, the third quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013, primarily caused by the adjustment of subsidies and economic incentives for PV installations as part of government austerity measures in many countries. In addition, the supply of PV modules has increased due to production capacity expansion by PV module manufacturers worldwide in recent years which, together with a slowdown in demand for PV modules, resulted in a decline of prices of PV modules beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008. While we have achieved cost savings through vertical integration, economies of scale and technological improvements, the decrease in the average selling price of our PV modules primarily caused our gross profit margin to decrease significantly from 16.7% for 2011 to negative 3.2% for 2012. There can be no assurance that the demand for our products will increase or remain at the current level or such demand will not decline again in the near future, or our cost saving efforts will improve our profitability or prevent our profit margin from further declining under the current macroeconomic conditions. While the average selling price of our PV modules has stabilized since the second quarter of 2013 and our gross profit margin increased to 10.9% for 2013, there can be no assurance that we will not experience decreases in the average selling price of our PV modules in the future or further declines in demand for our products, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. 6 Table of Contents We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations as well as meet future capital requirements. If we cannot obtain additional capital when we need it, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations. We will also require cash to meet future capital requirements, which are difficult to predict. Our ability to obtain additional financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including (i) our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; (ii) general market conditions for financing activities by manufacturers of PV and related products; and (iii) economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. As a result of weakened macroeconomic conditions including adverse credit market conditions in recent years, we have experienced and may continue to experience increasing difficulty in obtaining financing on acceptable terms or at all. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funding in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms or at all, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities would result in further dilution to our shareholders and the incurrence of indebtedness has resulted and may continue to result in increased fixed obligations and has led and could continue to lead to the imposition of financial or other restrictive covenants that would restrict our operations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to meet our payment obligations under our debt instruments and further grow our business. We have primarily relied on borrowings from commercial banks in China to fund a significant portion of our capital expenditure and working capital needs, and expect to continue to do so in the future. We have a significant amount of debt and debt service requirements. As of December 31, 2013, we had RMB6,715.9 million (US$1,109.4 million) in outstanding short-term borrowings (including the current portion of long-term debt), RMB3,914.7 million (US$646.7 million) in outstanding medium-term notes and RMB4,108.3 million (US$678.6 million) in outstanding long-term debt (excluding the current portion). This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: · making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt; · resulting an event of default if we fail to comply with any of the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which event of default could result in cross-defaults in other debt obligations which would lead to such other debt becoming immediately due and payable; · reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes as a result of interest payments, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; · subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are otherwise less leveraged. 7 Table of Contents Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to meet our payment obligations under our debt instruments. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate adequate cash flow from operations to support our operations and service our debt obligations, or that future debt or equity will be available to us under our existing or any future credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding debt while continuing to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt. We have significant short-term borrowings outstanding, and we may not be able to renew our short-term borrowings when they mature. As of December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, our outstanding short-term borrowings (including the current portion of long-term debt) were RMB8,225.1 million, RMB7,526.0 million and RMB6,715.9 million (US$1,109.4 million), respectively, and bore a weighted average interest rate of 6.2%, 5.9% and 5.8% per annum, respectively. Generally, these loans contain no specific renewal terms, although we had traditionally negotiated renewal of certain of the loans shortly before they would mature. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew similar loans in the future as they mature. If we are unable to obtain renewals of any future loans or sufficient alternative funding on reasonable terms, we will have to repay these borrowings with cash generated by our future operations, if any. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay our future borrowings. A significant portion of our borrowings are arranged and guaranteed by our related parties. The deterioration of the guarantors’ financial condition may materially and adversely affect our ability to maintain current borrowings or obtain additional borrowings when needed. As of December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, 38.9%, 45.8% and 53.6%, respectively, of our outstanding short-term borrowings (including the current portion of long-term debt), and 38.0%, 13.5% and 20.7%, respectively, of our outstanding long-term borrowings (excluding the current portion of long-term debt) were arranged or guaranteed by related parties, primarily including Yingli Group, a PRC company controlled by Mr. Liansheng Miao, and its affiliates. If the financial condition of these related-party guarantors deteriorates for any reason, the lenders of our borrowings may require us to provide additional guaranty or collateral to secure our performance under the existing loan agreements, which may not be immediately available at reasonable terms and conditions or at all. If we fail to do so, the banks may declare our breach of contract and accelerate the maturity of the affected borrowings. In addition, any change in these related-party guarantors’ final position or their willingness to provide further guarantees may materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain additional borrowings in the future, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our cash resources and liquidity. The high cost or inaccessibility of financing for solar energy projects has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. If financing for solar energy projects continues to become more costly or inaccessible, the growth of the market for solar energy applications may be materially and adversely affected, which could adversely affect demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. The demand for our products, as reflected by the average selling price of our PV modules, decreased significantly since the fourth quarter of 2008, partly due to the tightened credit for PV system project financing as the result of the global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 and the subsequent sovereign debt crisis in Europe. In addition, rising interest rates could render existing financings more expensive, as well as present an obstacle for potential financings that would otherwise spur the growth of the PV industry. Furthermore, some countries, government agencies and the private sector have, from time to time, provided subsidies or financing on preferred terms for rural electrification programs. Some of our products are used in “off-grid” solar energy applications, where solar energy is provided to end users independent of an electricity transmission grid. We believe that the availability of financing could have a significant effect on the level of sales of off-grid solar energy applications, particularly in developing countries where users may not have sufficient resources or credit to otherwise acquire PV systems. If these existing financing programs are reduced or eliminated or if financings for solar energy projects continue to be tight or become more expensive, demand for our products would be adversely affected and our revenue and profits could decline. 8 Table of Contents A significant reduction in or discontinuation of government subsidies and economic incentives may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Demand for our products substantially depends on government incentives aimed to promote greater use of solar power. In many countries in which we are currently or intend to become active, the PV markets, particularly the market for “on-grid” PV systems, would not be commercially viable without government incentives. This is because the cost of generating electricity from solar power currently exceeds the cost of generating electricity from conventional or non-solar renewable energy sources. The scope of the government incentives for solar power depends, to a large extent, on political and policy developments in a given country related to environmental, economic or other concerns, which could lead to a significant reduction in or a discontinuation of the support for renewable energy sources in such country. For example, subsidies have been reduced or eliminated in some countries such as Germany, Italy and Spain. In June 2012, the German government passed the PV amendment to its renewable energy law (EEG) 2012, which changed the 52 gigawatts capacity threshold, reduced the available PV rate, revised volume-based degression schedule, and limited the amount of electricity that PV generators can export to the grid. On July 5, 2013, the Italian government discontinued feed-in tariff payments, and feed-in tariff for new solar PV projects are no longer available since July 2013. In August 2013, the National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC, of China adjusted the feed-in tariff for utility scale PV projects from the nationwide benchmark price of RMB1.00 per kWh to three regional variations of RMB0.90 per kWh, RMB0.95 per kWh and RMB1.00 per kWh based on solar resources and construction costs in the relevant regions. The new feed-in tariff policy will apply to all PV plants approved after September 1, 2013 and those approved before that date but are not commissioned on or after January 1, 2014. In addition, in certain countries, including countries to which we export PV products, government financial support of PV products has been, and may continue to be, challenged as being unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful. A significant reduction in the scope or discontinuation of government incentive programs, especially in our target markets, would have a material adverse effect on the demand for our PV modules as well as our results of operations. We face risks associated with the marketing and sale of our PV products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our ability to expand our business abroad will be limited. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, 77.8%, 76.7% and 66.1%, respectively, of our total net revenues were derived from our sales to customers outside of China, including customers in Germany, the United States, Greece, Spain, Italy, France, India, Japan, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Israel, South Korea and Belgium. We intend to further grow our business activities in China’s domestic market and the various international markets, in particular in the United States, Japan, South Africa and selected countries in South America, Southeast Asia and the Middle East where we believe the PV market is likely to grow significantly in the near term. The marketing and sale of our PV products to international markets expose us to a number of risks, including, but not limited, to: · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · increased costs associated with maintaining the ability to understand the local markets and follow their trends, as well as develop and maintain effective marketing and distributing presence in various countries; · the availability of advance payments made by our customers; · difficulty in providing customer service and support in these markets; · difficulty in staffing and managing overseas operations; · failure to develop appropriate risk management and internal control structures tailored to overseas operations; · difficulty and cost relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets; · failure to obtain or maintain certifications for our products or services in these markets; · inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; · unanticipated changes in prevailing economic conditions and regulatory requirements; and · trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses. Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond timely and effectively to rapid changes in market conditions in the relevant countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed in different legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not be able to develop and implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. To the extent that we conduct business in foreign countries by means of participations or joint ventures, there are additional risks. See “— We may undertake acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, and such undertakings may be unsuccessful.” A change in one or more of the factors described above may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We are subject to risks relating to adverse trade policies imposed against exports from China in certain of important markets of our products. We export a substantial amount of our products to Europe. In 2013, our shipments to Europe accounted for 30.1% of our total revenue for 2013. On September 5 and November 8, 2012, respectively, the European Union initiated anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations of crystalline silicon photovoltaic, or CSPV wafers, cells, and modules from China. On June 4, 2013, the European Commission issued its provisional anti-dumping determination and on August 2, 2013, the European Commission accepted an undertaking, or the Undertaking, made by a group of Chinese PV products exporters (including us) jointly with the China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic Products, or CCCME. Pursuant to the Undertaking, the Chinese exporters will limit their exports of solar panels to the EU and set prices above a minimum price, in exchange for the EU agreeing to forgo the imposition of anti-dumping duties on these solar panels from China. CCCME is responsible for allocating the quota among these exporters, and we have been allocated a portion of the quota. On December 5, 2013, the Council of European Union adopted the final findings of the European Commission and imposed anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on CSPV modules and key components (i.e. cells) originating in or consigned from People’s Republic of China. Wafers were excluded from the product scope. The anti-dumping duty rates ranged from 27.3% to 64.9%, while the anti-subsidy duty rates from 0% to 11.5%. The rates applicable to us are 35.5% and 6.3%, respectively. The definitive duties will be imposed for a two-year period starting from December 6, 2013. At the same time, the Council of European Union also confirmed the acceptance by European Commission of the Undertaking. While we are exempted from paying any anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties to the EU starting from August 6, 2013, the increased selling price and the reduced consumption on the European market under the Undertaking may bring significant uncertainties to our business in the European market. For example, our customers in Europe may not be willing to purchase our products at a higher price or to accept other restrictions imposed on us by the Undertaking. In addition, if we breach or withdraw from the Undertaking, or the European Commission withdraws its acceptance of the Undertaking, the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties will automatically apply to us. Thus, there can be no assurance that our entry into and performance of the Undertaking will eliminate potential material adverse effects of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on our business in Europe and our results of operation. We also export a substantial amount of our products to the United States. On November 7, 2012, the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) determined that CSPV modules produced from Chinese cells are materially injuring the U.S. CSPV cells and modules industry. The U.S. Department of Commerce, or the DOC, issued its final determinations on the rates of the anti-dumping, or AD, and countervailing duties, or CVD, on October 10, 2012, which became effective upon issuance of the final anti-dumping and countervailing duties orders in early December 2012. As a result of such final determinations, we, as a voluntary respondent, are subject to an average aggregated AD/CVD rate of 29.18%. However, this average aggregated AD/CVD rate might be subject to change due to the administrative review process initiated by DOC in early 2014. We are mandatory respondent and in cooperation with the DOC on its first administrative review on the anti-dumping investigation starting from February 3, 2014. On January 23, 2014, the DOC initiated a parallel AD investigation on CSPV products from Mainland China and Taiwan and CVD investigation on CSPV products from Mainland China. The products concerned are crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells, and modules, laminates and/or panels consisting of crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells, whether or not partially or fully assembled into other products, including building integrated materials. Subject merchandise also includes modules, laminates and/or panels assembled in Mainland China and Taiwan consisting of crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells that are completed or partially manufactured within a customs territory other than Mainland China and Taiwan, using ingots, wafers that are manufactured in Mainland China and Taiwan, or cells where the manufacturing process begins in Mainland China and Taiwan and is completed in other countries. The preliminary CVD result will be published before June 2, 2014 and the preliminary AD result before the end of July, 2014. Since we have been maintaining our supply to the U.S. market sourcing cells from Taiwan to avoid those punitive tariffs imposed against cells and modules from Mainland China, our business in the U.S. market may be materially and adversely impacted if the DOC and ITC finally impose punitive tariffs in these new investigations. On November 23, 2012, the Department of Commerce of Government of India initiated its anti-dumping investigation concerning imports of photovoltaic products originating in or exported from Malaysia, China, Taiwan and the United States. Both crystalline silicon and thin-film products are under investigation. Although we have very limited shipment to India during the period that is subject to the investigation, and are therefore not selected as a mandatory respondent, if as the result of such investigation the Indian government imposes anti-dumping duty or other trade protection measures, our prospects in the Indian market may be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that any government or international trade body will not institute adverse trade policies or remedies against exports from China in the future. Any significant changes in international trade policies, practices or trade remedies, especially those instituted in our target markets or markets where our major customers are located, could increase the price of our products compared to our competitors or decrease our customers’ demand for our products, which may adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. Our polysilicon cost may be higher than the market level as a result of our long-term polysilicon purchase commitment with fixed prices, and we have failed to perform certain of our long-term polysilicon supply contracts according to their original terms. In response to the industry-wide shortage of polysilicon supply in recent years until the third quarter of 2008, we had entered into short-term, medium-term and long-term supply contracts with fixed prices or prices adjustable with set formulas to secure our polysilicon supply. Since the fourth quarter of 2008, the price of polysilicon has decreased significantly as a result of increased industry-wide polysilicon manufacturing capacity and the pressure from decreasing average selling price of PV modules. To address the significant decrease in polysilicon price, we have renegotiated, and are still negotiating, with our polysilicon suppliers to reduce the purchase price for a substantial amount of polysilicon supplied under certain of our polysilicon supply contracts. However, the purchase prices under certain of our long-term polysilicon supply contracts were higher than the continuously declining market price of polysilicon. In 2011, we recognized a total of non-cash provision of RMB851.7 million on our inventory purchase commitment under long-term polysilicon supply contracts as a result of the decline in the polysilicon price. We did not recognize such provision in 2012. In 2013, we recognized an additional provision of RMB 480.2 million (US$79.3 million) on our inventory purchase commitment under long-term polysilicon supply contracts as a result of our re-assessment of our purchase commitments under long-term polysilicon supply contracts based on then current market price of polysilicon and current status of our performance of, and negotiations with our suppliers under, the long-term supply contracts. Our management has been negotiating with our suppliers on adjusting the prices under these long-term contracts. Should the negotiation results be different from the assessment base on which we recognized such provisions, these provisions would be adjusted accordingly to reflect such a new assessment. If the prices under our current contracts remains to be higher than the market price of polysilicon, we may have higher cost of polysilicon compared with other competitors who purchase their polysilicon from the spot market. We have not fully performed our long-term polysilicon supply contracts on their original terms due to the continuously declining market price of polysilicon. We have successfully renegotiated the pricing terms with some of our long-term polysilicon suppliers. Although we received various requests from some of our other suppliers for performing such contracts and notices of breach of contracts, up to the date of this annual report, some of these long-term polysilicon suppliers have agreed to supply polysilicon to us at prices comparable to spot market prices under tentative arrangements and on monthly or quarterly basis or continue to have active discussion. While we continue to negotiate with these suppliers on adjustments to the original pricing and supply terms under these contracts, our efforts may not be successful and these suppliers may require us to perform our obligations pursuant to the terms and conditions provided in the original contracts. In addition, they may bring lawsuits against us for damages they may have suffered from our failure to perform these contracts. If we are required to perform these long-term supply contracts according to their original pricing terms, or are ordered to pay substantial amounts of damages to these suppliers, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for a substantial majority of polysilicon could prevent us from delivering our products in a timely manner to our customers in the required quantities, which could result in order cancellations, decreased revenue and loss of market share. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, our five largest suppliers supplied in the aggregate approximately 82.6% , 86.6% and 83.4%, respectively, of our total polysilicon purchases. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these or our other suppliers, we may be unable to manufacture our products, our products may only be available at a higher cost or after a long delay, or we could be prevented from delivering our products to our customers in the required quantities, at competitive prices and on acceptable terms of delivery. Problems of this kind could cause us to experience order cancellations, decreased revenue and loss of market share. In general, the failure of a supplier to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner due to lack of supplies or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture our products or could increase our costs, particularly if we are unable to obtain these materials and components from alternative sources in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. Some of our suppliers have a limited operating history and limited financial resources, and some contracts we entered into with these suppliers do not clearly provide for remedies to us in the event any of these suppliers is not able to, or otherwise does not, deliver, in a timely manner or at all, any materials it is contractually obligated to deliver. Although we plan to refine the production process of Fine Silicon Co., Ltd., or Fine Silicon, in order to produce polysilicon at a cost comparable to or lower than prevailing market prices, we do not expect Fine Silicon to meet any meaningful portion of our polysilicon needs in the near future. See “—We may not be able to resume our in-house polysilicon production as cost-effective as expected or at all” below. As a result, we expect to continue to rely on third-party polysilicon suppliers for a significant portion of our polysilicon needs and any disruption in their supply of polysilicon to us may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Historically, due to a shortage of raw materials for the production of PV modules, increased market demand for polysilicon raw materials, the failure by some polysilicon suppliers to achieve expected production volumes and certain other factors, a few of our polysilicon suppliers failed to fully perform on their polysilicon supply contractual commitments to us, and we consequently did not receive part of the contractually agreed quantities of polysilicon raw materials from these suppliers. While we were able to replace such expected deliveries of polysilicon through purchases from the spot market and new supply contracts, we cannot assure you that any future failure of our suppliers to deliver agreed quantities of polysilicon could be substantially replaced in a timely manner or at all or that the price of such purchases or terms of such contracts will be favorable to us. Our failure to obtain polysilicon in sufficient quantities, of appropriate quality and in a timely manner could disrupt our operations, reduce and limit the growth of, our manufacturing output and revenue. Polysilicon is the most important raw material used in the production of our PV products. To maintain competitive manufacturing operations, we depend on timely delivery by our suppliers of polysilicon in sufficient quantities and of appropriate quality. Until the third quarter of 2008, there was an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon. As a result, we had historically faced the prospect of a shortage of polysilicon and late or failed delivery of polysilicon from suppliers. We may experience actual shortage of polysilicon or late or failed delivery in the future for various reasons. Our failure to obtain the required amount and quality of polysilicon on time and at affordable prices can seriously hamper our ability to meet our contractual obligations to deliver PV products to our customers. Any failure by us to meet such obligations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, retention of customers, market share, business and results of operations and may subject us to claims from our customers and other disputes. In addition, our failure to obtain sufficient amounts of polysilicon of the appropriate quality could result in underutilization of our existing and new production facilities and an increase of our marginal production cost, and may prevent us from implementing future capacity expansion plans, if any. Any of the above events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Volatility in polysilicon prices may adversely affect our results of operations. Until the third quarter of 2008, there had been an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon, primarily due to the growing demand for PV products and limited supply of polysilicon, which resulted in increasing prices of polysilicon under both long-term supply contracts and on the spot market. From the fourth quarter of 2008 to the second quarter of 2009, as the result of increased industry-wide polysilicon manufacturing capacity and the decrease in the demand for polysilicon due to the global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, the price of polysilicon decreased significantly. Although the polysilicon price rebounded between the third quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011 due to the recovery of demand for PV products in certain markets, the polysilicon price has decreased significantly again starting from the second quarter of 2011 as a result of increased polysilicon manufacturing capacity and the pressure from the decreasing average selling price of PV modules. In 2012, polysilicon prices continued to decline and reached a historical low of approximately US$14 per kilogram in November 2012. Since June 2013, polysilicon prices began to increase and reached slightly above US$20 per kilogram as of the date of this annual report. In 2012, the Ministry of Commerce of People’s Republic of China, or MOFCOM, initiated anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations on imports of solar-grade polysilicon originating in the United States, South Korea and the European Union. On January 20, 2014, MOFCOM issued its final determination imposing anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties for 5 years on imports of solar-grade polysilicon originating in the United States and South Korea at aggregated rates ranging from 2.4% to 59.1%. On January 24, 2014, MOFCOM preliminarily ruled that imports of solar-grade polysilicon originating in European Union were subsidized at a rate of 10.7% and were selling at dumping prices margining from 21.8% to 68.9%. On March 20, 2014, MOFCOM announced that it accepted an Undertaking proposal submitted by Wacker Chemie AG, an EU based supplier. According to Wacker, the Undertaking agreement will enter into effect from May 1, 2014 and will last until the end of April 2016. In response to MOFCOM refraining from applying anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on its products, Wacker undertakes not to sell its polysilicon produced at its European plants below a specific minimum price in China. Polysilicon is one of our major raw materials for the production of wafers, which also affects the production of PV cells and modules. A large portion of the sourcing of polysilicon is from the countries that are subject to the above mentioned investigations. Therefore, such anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties (whether provisional or final) imposed by MOFCOM may increase our cost of production for solar modules. Partly due to China’s anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations against the United States, South Korean and the European Union polysilicon manufactures, together with the increase in demand, since June 2013, polysilicon prices began to increase and reached slightly above US$20 per kilogram as of the date of this annual report. There can be no assurance that the polysilicon price will not increase significantly in the future. To the extent we are not able to pass any increased costs on to our customers, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our competitors, and our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We depend, and expect to continue to depend, on a limited number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenues. The loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers would significantly reduce our revenues and harm our results of operations. In addition, a significant portion of our outstanding accounts receivable is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. Failure of any of these customers to meet their payment obligations would materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We currently expect that our results of operations will, for the foreseeable future, continue to depend on the sale of our PV modules to a relatively small number of customers until we become successful in significantly expanding our customer base or diversifying product offerings. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 27.7%, 26.0% and 15.2%, respectively, of our net revenues. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate significant revenues from these customers or that we will be able to maintain these customer relationships. In addition, our business is affected by competition in the market for the products that many of our major customers sell, and any decline in the businesses of our customers could reduce the purchase of our products by these customers. The loss of sales to any of these customers could also have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations. In addition, a significant portion of our outstanding accounts receivable were derived from sales to a limited number of customers. As of December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, our five largest outstanding accounts receivable balance (net of provisions) accounted for approximately 33.8%, 24.2% and 20.1%, respectively, of our total outstanding accounts receivable. We are exposed to the credit risk of these customers, some of which are new customers with whom we have not had extensive business dealings historically. The failure of any of these customers to meet their payment obligations would materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. We face intense competition in the PV modules and PV system markets and our PV products compete with different solar energy systems as well as other renewable energy sources in the alternative energy market. The PV market is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. The number of PV product manufacturers had rapidly increased due to the growth of actual and forecasted demand for PV products and the relatively low barriers to entry. If we fail to attract and retain customers in our target markets for our current and future core products, namely PV modules and PV systems, we will be unable to increase our revenues and market share. We compete with both local and international producers of solar products, including the solar energy divisions of large conglomerates such as Sharp Corporation, PV module manufacturers such as SunPower Corporation, thin film solar module manufacturers such as First Solar, Inc. and integrated PV product manufacturers such as SolarWorld AG, Renewable Energy Corporation and Trina Solar Limited. We may also face competition from new entrants to the PV market, including those that offer more advanced technological solutions or that have greater financial resources, such as semiconductor manufacturers, several of which have started the production of PV cells and PV modules. A significant number of our competitors are developing or currently producing products based on technologies believed to be more advanced, including amorphous silicon, string ribbon and nano technologies, some or all of which may eventually offer cost advantages over the crystalline polysilicon technologies we currently use. A widespread adoption of any of these technologies could result in a rapid decline in demand for our products and a resulting decrease in our revenues if we fail to adopt such technologies. In addition, like us, some of our competitors have become, or are becoming, vertically integrated in the PV industry value chain, from silicon ingot manufacturing to PV system sales and installation. This could further erode our competitive advantage as a vertically integrated PV product manufacturer. In addition, our competitors may also enter into the polysilicon manufacturing business, which may provide them with cost advantages. Furthermore, the entire PV industry also faces competition from conventional energy and non-solar renewable energy providers. Many of our existing and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors also have better brand name recognition or more established distribution networks in certain important markets, larger customer bases or more in-depth knowledge of the target markets. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the research and development, promotion and sale of their products and respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions as compared to us. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or future competitors would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations. We may not be able to establish a successful solar project development and operation business on a large scale or a timely basis or at all. We have started initial solar project development and operation business on a small scale in China since 2012 and plan to leverage our experience in PV system installation to quickly build up a solid capacity of PV project development and operation. The solar project business involves a high level of risks and uncertainties. We do not have a long track record of, or substantial prior experience with, solar project development and operation and face significant challenges relating to expansion into this business. 13 Table of Contents Development and operation of solar projects require significant upfront investments in land use rights and interconnection rights, preliminary engineering, permitting, legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is economically, technologically or otherwise feasible. There are generally many months or even years between initial significant upfront investments in solar projects and the time those projects begin to generate revenue. The delay between generating revenue and upfront investments may adversely affect our cash flow, our other business and results of operations. In addition, we will need to rely on long-term financing, including equity and debt financing, to fund the solar project business. We may not be able to obtain necessary financing in sufficient amounts, on favorable terms or in a timely manner, if at all. Solar projects require solar conditions that can only be found in a limited number of geographic regions and project sites. We may not be able to identify suitable sites in a timely manner or at all. Even if we do, our ability to obtain requisite land use rights with respect to the sites is subject to growing competition from other solar power producers that may have better access to local government support, financial or other resources. If we are unable to identify suitable sites or obtain land use rights for such sites, our ability to develop new solar projects on a timely basis, if at all, will be significantly and adversely affected. Solar projects are often awarded through competitive bidding processes. It is difficult to predict whether and when we will be awarded a new solar project. The bidding and selection processes are affected by a number of factors, including factors beyond our control, such as market conditions or government incentive programs. Any increase in competition during the bidding process could have a significant adverse effect on our ability to secure solar projects as well as on the financial performance of our solar projects. In addition to risks and uncertainties generally applicable to all other project development and operation business, we face many solar-project-specific risks and uncertainties, which relate to our abilities to, among other things, negotiate satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements; obtain required land use rights and construction permits and approvals; obtain rights to interconnect the project to the electric grid or to transmit electricity generated; pay interconnection and other deposits, some of which are non-refundable; make financeable arrangements for the purchase of the electricity generated by our project; purchase and install appropriate equipment in a timely manner and on favorable terms; implement and complete the construction in a timely manner; handle potential challenges from project stakeholders, such as local residents, environmental organizations, and others who may not support the project; and address unforeseen engineering problems. Development and operation of solar projects may also be adversely affected by many other factors outside of our control, such as inclement weather, acts of God, delays in regulatory approvals or in third parties’ delivery of equipment or other materials on schedule. Shortages of skilled labor could also significantly delay a project or otherwise increase costs. Changes in project plans or defective execution may increase our costs and reduce our margins. The solar project business may also significantly divert our resources and management attention, which may affect the performance of our other business. If we fail to address the above risks and uncertainties, our ability to establish a large-scale solar project development and operation business in a timely manner will be harmed, and our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We had in the past breached, and may in the future breach, certain restrictive covenants of some of our loan agreements, which may result in acceleration of repayment of the affected loans and may trigger cross-default provisions of other loans and borrowings and, as a result, adversely and materially affect our liquidity position and ability to obtain bank loans or to borrow in the future. Our loan agreements with commercial banks in China contain restrictive covenants, some of which require us to maintain certain financial ratios, such as debt-to-asset ratios and coverage ratios. Other restrictive covenants in our loan agreements require us to obtain written consents from the commercial banks before we conduct certain transactions, such as providing guarantee to third parties and disposal of material assets. These covenants could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs in a timely manner and we may have to curtail some of our operations and growth plans to comply with these covenants. In addition, any global or regional economic deterioration, or adverse changes to the solar industry, may cause us to incur significant net losses or force us to assume considerable liabilities, which would adversely impact our ability to comply with the covenants of our outstanding loans. Such breach may constitute an event of default, and if the relevant creditors do not grant waivers for any covenant breach, it may trigger an acceleration of the amounts due under the relevant loan agreements. Some of our loan agreements also contain cross-default provisions enabling creditors under such loan agreements to declare an event of default and/or accelerate repayment when there is a default in other debt instruments. These cross-default provisions may be triggered if any breach of covenants of other loans is not waived in time. We had been in breach of certain financial covenants, such as debt-to-asset ratios, under certain loan agreements with commercial banks in China, which would have triggered cross-default provisions under certain other relevant loan agreements. As of the date of this annual report, we have obtained written waivers from all the relevant banks with which we have these affected loan agreements, waiving such past breaches and/or cross-defaults. All these waivers also prospectively waived any future breach of such financial covenants for the remaining terms of the affected loans, except for the waiver for one affected loan in the principal amount of US$50 million and due 2019 which waived prospectively future breach of financial covenants until December 2014. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with the financial covenants under this affected loan agreement when this waiver expires, and in such case, we will need to seek a new waiver, which we may not be able to obtain on a timely basis or at all. 14 Table of Contents In addition, while we have been in compliance with financial covenants under all our other loan agreements, depending on our future business, financial condition and results of operations, we may not be able to continue to comply with such financial covenants in the future. In the event of a future breach, we may not be able to cure the breach or obtain a waiver on a timely basis or at all, which could result in an event of default. An event of default under any agreement governing our existing or future debt, if not cured by us or waived by our creditors, could result in an acceleration of the repayment of all or a portion of the loan. If we are required to repay all or a significant portion of the affected loans, we may not have sufficient financial resources to do so, which will adversely and materially affect our liquidity position. Moreover, it is also possible that our failure to comply with restrictive covenants in existing loan agreements may significantly and adversely affect our ability to obtain additional loans from commercial banks in the future. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business prospects. Existing regulations and policies governing the electric utility industry, as well as changes to these regulations and policies, may adversely affect demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. The electric utility industry is subject to extensive regulation, and the market for PV products is heavily influenced by these regulations as well as the policies promulgated relating to electric utilities. These regulations and policies often affect electricity pricing and technical interconnection of end-user power generation. As the market for solar and other alternative energy sources continues to evolve, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in research and development of, solar and other alternative energy sources may be significantly affected by these regulations and policies, which could significantly reduce demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. Moreover, we expect that our PV products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with international, national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters in various countries or regions. We also have to comply with the requirements of individual localities and design equipment to comply with varying standards applicable in the jurisdictions where we conduct business. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our PV products may result in significant additional expenses to us, our distributors and end users and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our PV products, as well as materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Advance payment arrangements between us and some of our polysilicon suppliers and many of our equipment suppliers expose us to the credit risks of such suppliers and may increase our costs and expenses, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. We made advance payments to some of our polysilicon suppliers under long-term supply contracts we signed with them. As of December 31, 2013, we had long-term prepayment balances for polysilicon in a total amount of RMB884.6 million (US$146.1 million) under such long-term contracts. Currently, we are renegotiating with some of our polysilicon suppliers on the purchase price of a substantial amount of polysilicon supply under certain long-term contracts. See “—Our polysilicon cost may be higher than the market level as a result of our long-term polysilicon purchase commitment with fixed prices, and we have failed to perform certain of our long-term polysilicon supply contracts according to their original terms” above. If we fail to reach agreements with such suppliers on the quantities and price of the polysilicon supply under those contracts, the suppliers may hold the advance payment and claim for further damages. In addition, under existing supply contracts with many of our equipment suppliers, consistent with the industry practice, we make advance payments to our suppliers prior to the scheduled delivery dates for equipment. In many such cases, we make the advance payments without receiving collateral for such payments. As a result, our claims for such payments would rank as unsecured claims, which would expose us to the credit risks of our suppliers in the event of their insolvency or bankruptcy. Under such circumstances, our claims against the defaulting suppliers would rank below those of secured creditors, which would undermine our chances of obtaining the return of our advance payments. Accordingly, any of the above scenarios may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our growth strategy requires substantial capital expenditures, significant engineering efforts, timely delivery of manufacturing equipment and dedicated management attention, and our failure to complete our future expansion plans or otherwise effectively manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our sales and earnings. Our future success partially depends on our ability to expand our manufacturing capacity as needed to meet market demands on our products promptly and in a cost-efficient manner. If we are unable to do so, we will not be able to attain the desired level of economies of scale in our operations or lower our marginal production costs to the level necessary to effectively maintain our pricing and other competitive advantages. We have made substantial capital expenditures for our business expansions. For example, we completed an aggregate of 750 megawatts capacity expansion projects in the third quarter of 2012, bringing our total annual production capacity to 2,450 megawatts. We believe that our actual annual manufacturing capacity can reach approximately 4,000 megawatts for PV modules for 2014. Our growth strategy has required and may continue to require substantial capital expenditures, significant engineering efforts, timely delivery of manufacturing equipment, dedicated management attention and the recruitment and training of new employees and is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: 15 Table of Contents · we may need to continue to contribute significant additional capital to our subsidiaries through the issuance of equity or debt securities or entering into new credit facilities or other arrangements in order to finance the costs of developing the new facilities, which may not be conducted on reasonable terms or at all, and which could be dilutive to our existing shareholders; such capital contributions, if contributed from outside of PRC, also require PRC regulatory approvals in order for such funds to be transferred to our subsidiaries within PRC, which approvals may not be granted in a timely manner or at all; · we will be required to obtain governmental approvals, permits or documents of similar nature with respect to any new expansion projects, but it is uncertain whether such approvals, permits or documents will be obtained in a timely manner or at all; · we may experience cost overruns, construction delays, equipment problems, including delays in manufacturing equipment deliveries or deliveries of equipment that is damaged or does not meet our specifications, and other operating difficulties; · we are using new equipment and technology to lower our unit capital and operating costs, but we cannot assure you that such efforts will be successful; and · we may not have sufficient management resources to properly oversee future capacity expansion. Any of these or similar difficulties could adversely affect our ability to manage the growth of our operations. Any significant delays or constraints to our future manufacturing capacity expansion plans, if any, could limit our ability to increase sales, reduce marginal manufacturing costs or otherwise improve our prospects and profitability. In addition, we may have over-capacity as a result of our future manufacturing capacity expansion if we do not sufficiently increase sales. We may undertake acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, and such undertakings may be unsuccessful. Our strategy includes plans to grow both organically and through acquisitions, participation in joint ventures or other strategic alliances with suppliers or other companies in China and overseas along the PV industry value chain. Acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and other strategic alliances may expose us to new operational, regulatory, market and geographic risks as well as risks associated with additional capital requirements, including: · our inability to integrate new business, operations, personnel, products, services and technologies; · unforeseen or hidden liabilities, including exposure to administrative or legal proceedings associated with newly acquired companies; · the diversion of resources from our existing businesses; · disagreement with joint venture or strategic alliance partners; · contravention of regulations governing cross-border investment; · failure to comply with laws and regulations as well as industry or technical standards of the overseas markets into which we expand; · our inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions, strategic investments, joint venture formations or other strategic alliances; · our inability to achieve the intended cost efficiency, level of profitability or other intended strategic goals for the acquisitions, strategic investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances; and · potential loss of, or harm to, employees or customer relationships. 16 Table of Contents Any of these events could disrupt our ability to manage our business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Such risks could also result in our failure to derive the intended benefits of the acquisitions, strategic investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances and we may be unable to recover our investment in such initiatives. We may not be able to resume our in-house polysilicon production as cost-effective as expected or at all. Fine Silicon, our wholly owned polysilicon production subsidiary, started trial production in late 2009 and was initially expected to reach its full production capacity of 3,000 tons of polysilicon per year. However, as market prices of polysilicon decreased sharply in recent years, Fine Silicon’s designed production was no longer cost-effective. Currently, Fine Silicon is not manufacturing any meaningful amount of polysilicon. We recorded a non-cash impairment of long-lived assets of Fine Silicon in an amount of RMB2,275.0 million and RMB200.5 million for 2011 and 2012, respectively, which in the aggregate represented a write-down of the entire equipment of Fine Silicon. We plan to refine Fine Silicon’s production process and resume its normal production when Fine Silicon can produce polysilicon at a cost comparable to or lower than prevailing market prices of polysilicon, which, if achieved, is expected to have a positive effect on our results of operations. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully resume Fine Silicon’s normal polysilicon production or achieve the desired cost-efficiency in the near future or at all. If we fail to do so, we will not be able to realize the expected positive effect on our results of operations, and our supply of polysilicon will remain to be subject to market volatilities. Ingot production is energy intensive and if our energy costs rise or if our energy supplies are disrupted, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The ingot production process is highly dependent on a constant supply of electricity to maintain the optimal conditions for production. If these levels are not maintained, we may experience significant delays in the production of ingots. With the rapid development of the Chinese economy, demand for electricity has continued to increase. There have been shortages in electricity supply in various regions across China, especially during peak seasons such as summer. In the event that electricity and other energy supplies to our manufacturing facilities are disrupted, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition to shortages, we are subject to potential risks of interruptions in energy supply due to equipment failure, weather events or other causes. There can be no assurance that we will not face power related problems in the future. Even if we had access to sufficient sources of electricity, as we consume substantial amounts of electricity in our manufacturing process, any significant increase in the costs of electricity could adversely affect our profitability. The electricity price in China will also be largely dependent on the price for coal, which has been increasing. If electricity and other energy costs were to increase, our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity position could be adversely affected. If PV technology is not suitable for widespread adoption, or sufficient demand for PV products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipated, our sales may not continue to increase or may even decline, and we may be unable to sustain profitability. The PV market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which PV products will be widely adopted is uncertain. The PV industry may also be particularly susceptible to economic downturns. Market data in the PV industry are not as readily available as those in other more established industries where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. If PV technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for PV products fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to grow our business or generate sufficient revenues to sustain our profitability. In addition, demand for PV products in our targeted markets, including China, may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipated. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and demand for PV products, including (i) cost-effectiveness of PV products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; (ii) performance and reliability of PV products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; (iii) availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the PV industry; (iv) success of other alternative energy generation technologies, such as fuel cells, wind power and biomass; (v) fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; (vi) capital expenditures by end users of PV products, which tend to decrease when economy slows down; and (vii) deregulation of the electric utility industry and broader energy industry. Fluctuations in exchange rates have in the past and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations. Most of our sales are currently denominated in Euros or U.S. dollars, while a substantial portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, Euros and U.S. dollars. In addition, we must constantly convert one currency into another to make payments. Therefore, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a significant effect on our results of operations due to mismatches among various foreign currency-denominated transactions, including sales of PV modules in overseas markets and purchases of silicon raw materials and equipment in China, and the time gap between the signing of the related contracts and cash receipts and disbursements related to such contracts. In 2013, we recognized a net foreign currency exchange loss of RMB32.2 million (US$5.3 million) primarily due to the depreciation of the Euro against the Renminbi. We have entered into hedging and foreign currency forward arrangements to limit our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. However, we will continue to be exposed to foreign currency exchange risk to the extent that our hedging and foreign currency forward arrangements do not cover all of our expected revenues denominated in foreign currencies. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our foreign currency exchange gains or losses in the future. We may continue to reduce the effect of such exposure through hedging or other similar arrangements, but because of the limited availability of such instruments in China, we cannot assure you that we will always find a hedging arrangement suitable to us, or that such derivative activities will be effective in managing our foreign exchange risk. 17 Table of Contents In addition, the functional currency for our PRC subsidiaries is Renminbi. Our sales generated by our PRC subsidiaries which are denominated in foreign currencies need to be translated into Renminbi when they are recorded as our revenues. Therefore, depreciation of foreign currencies in which our sales are denominated, such as the Euro and the U.S. dollar, against the Renminbi will cause our reported revenues to decline. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, the depreciation of the Euro and U.S. dollar against the Renminbi adversely affected our total net revenues, as a majority of our PV module shipments were under contracts denominated in the Euro and the U.S. dollar. Any further depreciation of foreign currencies in which our sales are denominated against the Renminbi will continue to adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our product development initiatives and other research and development efforts may fail to improve manufacturing efficiency or yield commercially viable new products. We are making efforts to improve our manufacturing processes and improve the quality of our PV products. We believe that the efficient use of polysilicon is essential to reducing our manufacturing costs. We have been exploring several measures to improve the efficient use of polysilicon in our manufacturing process, including reducing the thickness of silicon wafers. However, the use of thinner silicon wafers may have unforeseen negative consequences, such as increased breakage and reduced reliability and conversion efficiency of our PV cells and modules. As a result, reducing the thickness of silicon wafers may not lead to the cost reductions we expect to achieve, while at the same time it may reduce customer satisfaction with our products, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our customer relationships, reputation and results of operations. We are also exploring ways to improve our PV module products. Additional research and development efforts will be required before our products in development may be manufactured and sold at a commercially viable level. We cannot assure you that such efforts will improve the efficiency of manufacturing processes or yield new produces that are commercially viable. In addition, the failure to realize the intended benefits from our product development initiatives could limit our ability to keep pace with the rapid technological changes, which in turn would hurt our business and prospects. For example, in order to meet the increasing demand for our products and further drive down costs through increased cell conversion efficiency and the larger scale of manufacturing, we started to implement Project PANDA, a research and development project for next-generation high efficiency monocrystalline PV cells, in June 2009. By the end of 2013, we achieved an average cell conversion efficiency rate of 19.7% on the PANDA commercial production lines and a record cell conversion efficiency rate of 21.0% on the PANDA trial line. However, as we are new to the monocrystalline technology, we may not be able to overcome all technical challenges in the process of commercializing new technologies developed from Project PANDA and maintain or further improve the cell conversion efficiency rate we have achieved. In addition, we only have limited experience with customer demands in the monocrystalline PV market and may not be able to adapt to the monocrystalline PV market conditions. The established and more experienced competitors in the monocrystalline PV market may possess superior technology and have better known brand names than us. If we fail to successfully continue commercializing our monocrystalline PV technology or are unable to operate competitively in the monocrystalline market, we may not be able to recover the cost of our investments, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period. Our results of operations are subject to many factors beyond our control, which include, among others, changes in costs of raw materials, delays in equipment delivery, suppliers’ failure to perform their delivery obligations, cancellation or delay of customers’ orders, interruptions in utilities supply and other key production inputs, general economic conditions and changes in government policies or incentive schemes, and uncertainties relating to or accounting charges caused by any of these factors. Any one or combination of these factors may cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly from period to period or deviate from the expectations of the investment community or our own projections. As a result, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results or projections as an indication of our future performance. 18 Table of Contents Failure to achieve satisfactory output of our PV modules and PV systems could result in a decline in sales. The manufacture of PV modules and PV systems is a highly complex process. Disruptions or deviations in one or more components of the manufacturing process can cause a substantial decrease in output and, in some cases, disrupt production significantly or result in no output. Historically, we had from time to time experienced lower-than-anticipated manufacturing output during the ramp-up period of production lines. This often occurred during the production of new products, the installation of new equipment or the implementation of new process technologies. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2012, due to the challenging solar market conditions and continuing decline in average selling prices of PV modules, we recognized an impairment of long-lived assets of Fine Silicon in an amount RMB200.5 million and a loss of RMB61.7 million related to disposal of certain equipment. These non-cash charges significantly and adversely affected our results of operations in the fourth quarter and full year 2012. As we bring additional lines or facilities into production, we may operate at less than intended capacity during the ramp-up period and produce less output than expected. This would result in higher marginal production costs which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Unsatisfactory performance of or defects in our products may cause us to incur additional warranty expenses, damage our reputation and cause our sales to decline. Before September 30, 2011, our PV modules are typically sold with a two- or five-year limited warranty for defects in materials and workmanship, and a 10-year and 25-year warranty guaranteeing 90% and 80% of initial power generation capacity, respectively. From October 1, 2011, we implemented a new and improved warranty term that guarantees 91.2% of nameplate power for 10 years, and 80.7% of nameplate power for 25 years for multicrystalline PV modules and 98.0% of nameplate power for the first year, 92.0% of nameplate power for 10 years, and 82.0% of nameplate power for 25 years for monocrystalline Panda PV modules. In addition, based on customers’ specific requirements, we also provide our multicrystalline PV modules with linear-based warranty which guarantees each year’s power output during the twenty-five-year warranty period. In 2012, we entered into a module performance warranty insurance agreement with Munich Re’s specialty primary insurers. According to the agreement, both of us provided additional economic security for large-scale commercial and utility project developers, investors and debt providers during the period from October 1, 2012 to September 30, 2013 in connection with our multicrystalline PV modules. In December 2013, we entered into a similar module performance warranty insurance agreement with another insurance company for the same scope of beneficiaries for 2014. Nevertheless, we bear the risk of warranty claims long after we have sold our products and recognized revenues. We have sold PV modules only since January 2003, and none of our PV modules has been in use for the entire warranty periods. In connection with our PV system sales in the PRC, we provide a one- to five- year warranty against defects in our modules, storage batteries, controllers and inverters. As of December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, our accrued warranty costs amounted to RMB457.7 million, RMB555.4 million and RMB666.9 million (US$110.2 million), respectively. Moreover, because our products have only been in use for a relatively short period of time, our assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our products may not be accurate, and because our products have relatively long warranty periods, we cannot assure you that the amount of accrued warranty by us for our products will be adequate in light of the actual performance of our products. If we experience a significant increase in warranty claims, we may incur significant repair and replacement costs associated with such claims. Furthermore, widespread product underperformances or failures will damage our reputation and customer relationships and may cause our sales to decline, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, severe weather conditions or other catastrophic events may severely affect the regions where we, our suppliers or our customers operate. Such natural disasters could also cause a material economic downturn in the affected area or internationally. Although we have limited exposure to any catastrophic event, any future disasters in areas where we, our suppliers or our customers operate could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, war, terrorist activity, threats of war or terrorist activity, social unrest as well as geopolitical uncertainty and international conflict and tension, for example, the tensions within the Middle East and the Korean Peninsula and the territorial disputes between China and other countries, could affect international or regional economic development. In turn, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be adequately prepared in terms of contingency planning or have recovery capabilities in place to deal with a major incident or crisis. As a result, our operational continuity may be adversely and materially affected. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur uncovered losses resulting from business interruption or natural disasters. We have limited insurance coverage and we do not maintain any business interruption insurance coverage. As a result, we may have to pay, out of our own funds, for financial and other losses, damages and liabilities, including those in connection with or resulting from natural disasters and other events beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We obtain some of the equipment used in our manufacturing process from a small number of selected suppliers. If our equipment is damaged or new or replacement equipment is not delivered to us in a timely manner or is otherwise unavailable, our ability to deliver products timely will suffer, which in turn could result in cancellations of orders and loss of revenue for us. Some of the equipment used in our production of polysilicon ingots, wafers, PV cells and PV modules, such as ingot casting furnaces, diffusion furnaces and wire saws, have been customized to our specifications, are not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace. There are also limited sources of supply for the principal polysilicon manufacturing equipment we use and we may not be able to replace such sources at reasonable costs and on a timely basis or at all. If any of our key equipment suppliers were to experience financial difficulties or go out of business, we may have difficulties with repairing or replacing our key equipment in the event of any damage to or a breakdown of such equipment. Furthermore, new or replacement equipment may not be delivered to us in a timely manner. In such cases, our ability to deliver products in a timely manner would suffer, which in turn could result in cancellations of orders from our customers and loss of revenue for us. In addition, the equipment we may need for our future expansion may be in high demand. A supplier’s failure to deliver the equipment in a timely manner, in sufficient quantity and on terms acceptable to us could delay our future capacity expansion and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our production costs. If the practice of requiring certain customers to make advance payments when they place orders with us ceases, or if our customers fail to meet their payment obligations, we may experience increased needs to finance our working capital requirements and may be exposed to increased credit risk, which may materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We require many of our customers to make an advance payment representing a small percentage of their orders, which is a business practice that help us manage our accounts receivable, prepay our suppliers and reduce the amount of funds that we need to finance our working capital requirements. We cannot assure you that this practice will not cease in the future. If this practice ceases, we may not be able to secure additional financing on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us or at all. Currently, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from credit sales to our customers, generally with payments due within four months after shipment. As a result, any future decrease in the use of cash advance payments by our customers may negatively impact our short-term liquidity and, coupled with increased credit sales to a small number of major customers, expose us to additional and more concentrated credit risk since a significant portion of our outstanding accounts receivable is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. As of December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, our five largest outstanding accounts receivable balance accounted for approximately 33.8%, 24.2% and 20.1%, respectively, of our total outstanding accounts receivable. The failure of any of these or other customers to meet their payment obligations would materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. For example, as a result of certain customers’ prolonged failure to settle accounts receivable and the continuing deterioration of their financial condition and creditworthiness, we made a total provision of RMB3.1 million (US$0.5 million) in 2013 for the doubtful accounts receivable related to these customers. Besides, we may need to from time to time commence legal proceddings to recover accounts receivables from customers, which may also increase our cost. Although we have been able to maintain adequate working capital primarily through short-term borrowing, our prior convertible senior notes offering, follow-on offering and medium-term notes offering, other debt issuances and long-term bank borrowings, any failure by our customers to settle outstanding accounts receivable in the future could materially and adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. We have issued, and may issue in the future, equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our ordinary shares, which may cause our existing shareholders to incur further dilution upon conversion of such securities. We have issued, and may issue in the future, equity securities or securities convertible into our ordinary shares. In the event that the securities convertible into our ordinary shares are converted, our existing shareholders may incur further dilution. For example, in January 2009, we issued an aggregate amount of US$49.4 million of senior secured convertible notes due 2012, or senior secured convertible notes, to Trustbridge Partners II, L.P., or Trustbridge, or its affiliates in connection with our acquisition of Cyber Power. From June 2009 to January 2012, we issued an aggregate of 11,588,713 ordinary shares to Trustbridge as a result of the conversion of the full amount of the senior secured convertible notes. In addition, in connection with a credit agreement between Yingli Energy (China) Company Ltd., or Yingli China, and a fund managed by Asia Debt Management Hong Kong Limited, or ADM Capital, entered into in January 2009, we issued 4,125,000 warrants to ADM Capital under the terms of a warrant agreement entered into in April 2009. From May 2010 to May 2011, a total of 2,454,271 ordinary shares in the form of ADSs were issued to ADM Capital in connection with its exercise of the total 4,125,000 warrants. No convertible securities are outstanding as of the date of this annual report. Any future issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our equity securities may cause further dilution to our existing shareholders. If our future acquisition, expansions, or market changes or other developments cause us to require additional funding, we may issue additional securities convertible into or exchangeable for our ordinary shares, and our existing shareholders could incur substantial dilution. 20 Table of Contents A majority of our production, storage, administrative and research and development facilities are located in close proximity to one another in an industrial park in China. Any damage or disruption at these facilities would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A majority of our production, storage, administrative, research and development facilities are located in close proximity to one another in an industrial park in Baoding, Hebei Province, China. A natural disaster or other unanticipated catastrophic event, including power interruption and war, could significantly disrupt our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business. If any of our production facilities or material equipment were to experience any significant damage or downtime, we would be unable to meet our production targets and our business would suffer. Our manufacturing processes generate noise, waste water, gaseous and other industrial wastes. This creates a risk of work-related accidents and places high demands on work safety measures. No major injuries have occurred at our facilities in connection with work-related accidents to date. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that accidents involving serious or fatal injuries will not occur at our facilities. Furthermore, there is a risk of contamination and environmental damage associated with hazardous substances used in our production processes. The materialization of any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our principal shareholder has significant influence over our management and their interests may not be aligned with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders, including holders of theADSs. Yingli Power, which is 100% beneficially owned by the family trust of and controlled by Liansheng Miao, the chairperson of our board of directors and our chief executive officer, currently beneficially owns approximately 33.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Yingli Power has significant influence over us, including on matters relating to mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of this shareholder may conflict with our interests or the interests of our others shareholders. Baoding Tianwei Baobian Electric Co., Ltd., or Tianwei Baobian, our joint venture partner as to Tianwei Yingli, has significant influence over Tianwei Yingli, one of our principal operating entities, and Tianwei Baobian may prevent Tianwei Yingli from taking actions that are in the best interest of us or Tianwei Yingli. In addition, Tianwei Baobian will have significant influence over us if it exercises the subscription right, and Tianwei Baobian’s interests may not be aligned with our interests or the interests of our shareholders. Tianwei Baobian currently owns a 25.99% equity interest in Tianwei Yingli, one of our principal operating entities. Tianwei Baobian has significant influence over Tianwei Yingli through its board representation in Tianwei Yingli and other rights in accordance with the joint venture contract with us and the articles of association of Tianwei Yingli. Tianwei Baobian is entitled to appoint three of the nine directors of Tianwei Yingli. Tianwei Baobian may have different views and approaches with respect to the management and operation of Tianwei Yingli from those of us. Tianwei Baobian may disagree with us in the management and operation of Tianwei Yingli and may vote against actions that we believe are in the best interest of Tianwei Yingli or us. For example, directors appointed by Tianwei Baobian may vote against matters that require unanimous approval of all directors. Directors appointed by Tianwei Baobian may also hinder or delay adoption of relevant resolutions by not attending a board meeting, thereby preventing achievement of a quorum and forcing the meeting to be postponed for no more than seven days. See “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company — Joint Venture Contract — Tianwei Yingli’s Management Structure Board of Directors”. Due to Tianwei Baobian’s ability to exercise influence over Tianwei Yingli through its appointed directors, and through its other rights under the joint venture contract, any significant deterioration of our relationship or our disagreement with Tianwei Baobian may cause disruption to Tianwei Yingli’s business, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Tianwei Baobian may also have disagreement or dispute with us with respect to our respective rights and obligations on matters such as the exercise of Tianwei Baobian’s right to subscribe for ordinary shares newly issued by us in exchange for its equity interest in Tianwei Yingli. Except in limited circumstances, we may not be able to unilaterally terminate the joint venture contract in the event of such disagreement or dispute even if such termination would be in our best interest. See “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company —Joint Venture Contract —Unilateral Termination of the Joint Venture Contract”. Any such disputes may result in costly and time-consuming litigations or other dispute resolution proceedings which may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management and disrupt our business operations. Furthermore, Tianwei Baobian may transfer all or a part of its equity interest in Tianwei Yingli pursuant to the joint venture contract entered into between Tianwei Baobian and us. If we fail to exercise our right of first refusal in accordance with the procedures set forth in the joint venture contract and are thus deemed to have consented to any such proposed transfer by Tianwei Baobian to a third party or if Tianwei Baobian transfers its equity interest in Tianwei Yingli to its affiliates, such third party or such Tianwei Baobian’s affiliate will become a holder of Tianwei Yingli’s equity interest. The interests of such third party or such Tianwei Baobian’s affiliate may not be aligned with our interests or the interest of Tianwei Yingli. See “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company— Joint Venture Contract — Transfer of Equity Interests in Tianwei Yingli — Right of First Refusal”. In January 2014, Tianwei Baobian entered into an equity interest transfer agreement with Baoding Tianwei Group Co., Ltd., or Tianwei Group, Tianwei Baobian’s controlling shareholder. According to the transfer agreement, Tianwei Baobian inteneds to transfer 7% of the equity interests of Tianwei Yingli to Baoding Tianwei Group Limited. The transfer is subject to the approval of governmental authority. 21 Table of Contents In addition, the Baoding State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission completed the transfer of all of its equity interest in Tianwei Group to China South Industries Group Corporation, or China South. It is unclear how Tianwei Baobian’s business strategy with respect to its shareholding in Tianwei Yingli will change subsequent to the acquisition by China South of Tianwei Group and how such change, if any, will affect the management and operation of Tianwei Yingli. Furthermore, Tianwei Baobian may exercise the subscription right, and if it exercises the subscription right, it will become a significant shareholder of us. If Tianwei Baobian becomes our shareholder, it will have significant influence over our and Tianwei Yingli’s business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our or Tianwei Yingli’s assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. If Tianwei Baobian becomes our shareholder, its interests may not be aligned with ours or our shareholders. We may not be able to obtain adequate funding to acquire the equity interest in Tianwei Yingli held by Tianwei Baobian. Under the joint venture contract entered into between Tianwei Baobian and us, Tianwei Baobian may request us to make best efforts to purchase from Tianwei Baobian all but not part of its equity interest in Tianwei Yingli. Upon such request by Tianwei Baobian, we will undertake to use our best efforts to assist Tianwei Baobian in completing the transfer of such equity interest held by Tianwei Baobian. The manner and the price at which Tianwei Baobian sells its equity interest in Tianwei Yingli will be decided by mutual agreement between Tianwei Baobian and us based on the fair market value of its and our equity interest in Tianwei Yingli, respectively, and in accordance with relevant PRC laws and regulations. If the purchase of Tianwei Baobian’s equity interest in Tianwei Yingli is required to be paid in cash, we may not be able to obtain adequate funding in time and on terms acceptable to us, if at all, to pay for such purchase price. After the completion of the equity transfer from Tianwei Baobian to Tianwei Group, Tianwei Group may enjoy the same rights of Tianwei Baobian over the 7% equity interests held by it in Tianwei Yingli. Negative publicity, rumors or media coverage of Tianwei Baobian, our company, our affiliates or business partners, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business and financial condition. Since all of Tianwei Yingli’s equity interests are held together by us and Tianwei Baobian, negative rumors or media coverage of Tianwei Baobian, whether or not accurate and whether or not applicable to us, may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and financial condition. In addition, negative publicity of our company or our affiliates or business partners, whether or not accurate and whether or not applicable to us, may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and financial condition. We cannot assure you that there will not be negative rumors or media coverage related to Tianwei Baobian, our company, our affiliates or business partners in the future. If the parent company of our minority partner in Tianwei Yingli or any affiliate of such parent company engages in sanctioned activities inconsistent with the laws and policies of other countries, the reputation of Tianwei Yingli and us may be negatively affected. As a result, some of our shareholders may divest our shares and prospective investors may decide not to invest in our shares, which may cause the price of the ADSs to decline. The United States and other countries maintain economic and other sanctions against several countries, or the sanctioned countries, and persons engaged in specified activities, such as support of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and of terrorism. Tianwei Baobian is our minority joint venture partner which owns 25.99% equity interest in one of our operating subsidiaries, Tianwei Yingli. Based on publicly available information, Tianwei Group was acquired by China South in March 2008, and Tianwei Group and China South collectively own 51.3% of the outstanding shares of Tianwei Baobian. There have been news reports that China South, Tianwei Group and Tianwei Baobian conducted construction activities in or exported transformers to some sanctioned countries, including Iran and Sudan, in recent years. China North Industries Corporation, or Norinco, an affiliate of China South, was designated by the U.S. State Department under the Iran Nonproliferation Act of 2000 as engaged in the transfer to Iran of equipment and technology having the potential to make a material contribution to the development of weapons of mass destruction. Norinco was also reported to have had activities in and exported products to some sanctioned countries, including Iran, Sudan and Syria, some of which include military products and applications. In addition, Norinco is listed as one of the prohibited companies by some state and municipal governments, universities and investors in the United States due to its business relationships with the sanctioned countries. Certain of the sanctioned countries in which China South, Tianwei Group, Tianwei Baobian and Norinco have been reported to have had activities, such as Iran, Syria and Sudan, are identified by the U.S. State Department as state sponsors of terrorism and are subject to U.S. economic sanctions and export controls. 22 Table of Contents As a result of China South’s acquisition of Tianwei Group discussed above, Tianwei Yingli, our subsidiary, became an affiliate (as defined under the rules of the Exchange Act) of China South and Norinco. Neither our company nor any of our other subsidiaries is an affiliate of China South or Norinco. We have no control over Tianwei Baobian, Tianwei Group, China South, Norinco or their respective affiliated entities, nor has any of such entities requested Tianwei Yingli or us to have contacts with or otherwise conduct any sanctioned activity in any of the sanctioned countries. However, to the extent such entities are involved in activities that, if performed by a U.S. person, would be illegal under U.S. sanctions, or if any of such entities becomes subject of any economic sanctions maintained by the United States or other countries or entities, reputational issues relating to Tianwei Yingli or us may arise, and the investor sentiment with respect to the ADSs may be affected. Although neither we nor any of our other subsidiaries are an affiliate of China South or Norinco, investors in the United States may believe that the value of their investment in us may be adversely affected due to Tianwei Yingli’s affiliation with such entities or our connection with such entities through Tianwei Yingli, or they may choose not to invest in, and to divest any investments in, issuers that are associated even indirectly with sanctioned activities or sanctioned countries. Any negative investor sentiment as the result of such reputational issues may cause the price of the ADSs to decline and adversely affect the value or your investment in us. Our joint venture partner, Tianwei Baobian, has entered into competing businesses with us, which may adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our joint venture contract with Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Yingli’s articles of association do not impose non-competition restrictions upon Tianwei Baobian. While Tianwei Baobian’s current principal business is the manufacture of large electricity transformers, Tianwei Baobian has entered into the PV business through investments in various companies that are engaged in the manufacture of polysilicon, ingots, wafers, PV cells or PV modules and thin film modules. As these companies continue to expand their business, they may compete with us for both supply of raw materials and customers, and we may not have any legal right to prevent them from doing so. In addition, the parent of Tianwei Baobian has also made investments in the PV business. Because of Tianwei Baobian’s familiarity with and its ability to influence Tianwei Yingli’s business, competition from Tianwei Baobian or its affiliates could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The grant of employee share options and other share-based compensation could adversely affect our net income. We adopted our 2006 stock incentive plan in December 2006. Our board of directors approved in April 2007 and our shareholders approved in May 2007 amendment No. 1 to the 2006 stock incentive plan to increase the number of ordinary shares we are authorized to issue under the 2006 stock incentive plan. Our board of directors approved in July 2009 and our shareholders approved in August 2009 amendment No. 2 to the 2006 stock incentive plan to increase the number of ordinary shares we are authorized to issue under the 2006 stock incentive plan. Under the 2006 stock incentive plan, as amended, we may grant to our directors, employees and consultants up to 2,715,243 restricted shares and options to purchase up to 10,030,195 of our ordinary shares. As of the date of this annual report, we have granted to eight executive officers, 659 employees and four independent directors options to purchase 7,314,129 ordinary shares in the aggregate (excluding forfeited and cancelled options) and an aggregate of 2,631,268 restricted (excluding forfeited restricted shares) to DBS Trustee Limited, or the trustee, for the benefit of seven executive officers and 74 employees and non-employees. See “Item 6.B. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers — 2006 Stock Incentive Plan”. We account for compensation costs for all share-based awards including share options granted to our directors and employees using a fair-value based method, which may have a material and adverse effect on our reported earnings. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of such incentive plan to us. However, if we reduce the scope of our stock incentive plan, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel, as share options are an important tool to recruit and retain qualified and desirable employees. Our results of operations are difficult to predict, and if we do not meet the market expectations, the price of the ADSs will likely decline. Our results of operations are difficult to predict and have fluctuated from time to time in the past. We expect that our results of operations may continue to fluctuate from time to time in the future. It is possible that our results of operations in some reporting periods will be below market expectations. Our results of operations will be affected by a number of factors as set forth in “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects”. If our results of operations for a particular reporting period are lower than the market expectations for such reporting period, investors may react negatively, and as a result, the price of the ADSs may materially decline. 23 Table of Contents Our limited intellectual property protection inside and outside of China may undermine our competitive position and subject us to intellectual property disputes with third parties, both of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have been granted 698 patents and are applying for 342 patents as of the date of this annual report. Other than the know-how available in the public domain, we have developed in-house unpatented technical know-how that we use to manufacture our products. Many elements of our manufacturing processes involve proprietary know-how, technology or data, either developed by us in-house or transferred to us by our equipment suppliers, which are not covered by patents or patent applications, including manufacturing technologies and processes and production line and equipment designs. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, anti-unfair competition and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. Nevertheless, these measures provide only limited protection and the actions we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or our other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Policing the unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as our other resources away from our business. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. An adverse determination in any such litigation could result in the loss of our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. We have exported, and expect to continue to export, a substantial portion of our PV products outside of China. Because we do not have, and have not applied for, any patents for our proprietary technologies outside of China, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies and obtain patents for such intellectual properties in other jurisdictions, including the countries to which we export our PV modules. If any third parties are successful in obtaining patents for technologies that are substantially equivalent to or the same as our proprietary technologies in any of our markets before we are and enforce their intellectual property rights against us, our ability to sell products containing the allegedly infringing intellectual property in those markets will be materially and adversely affected. If we are required to stop selling such allegedly infringing products, seek license and pay royalties for the relevant intellectual properties or redesign such products with non-infringing technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to use and develop technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to PV technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. The steps we take in our product development to ensure that we are not infringing the existing intellectual property rights of others, such as review of related patents and patent applications prior to our product developments, may not be adequate. While we are not currently aware of any action pending or threatened against us, we may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time-consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our PV modules or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our PV modules or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also cause our customers or potential customers to defer or limit their purchase or use of our PV modules until the resolution of such litigation. We are exposed to various risks related to legal or administrative proceedings or claims that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation, and may cause loss of business. Litigation in general can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. We may be involved in allegations, litigation or legal or administrative proceedings from time to time. For example, on June 21, 2010, we commenced an arbitration proceeding against International Comercial E Industrial, S.A., or INCEISA, a Spanish Solar product distributor, at the International Court of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce. We commenced the arbitration seeking recovery of certain unpaid accounts receivable of approximately US$7.04 million and €14.47 million by INCEISA under the terms of a written settlement agreement. On October 11, 2011, the arbitral tribunal granted an award directing INCEISA to pay us over US$2.29 million and €15.98 million, respectively, as damages for breach of contractual obligations, as well as associated legal and arbitration cost. 24 Table of Contents In October 2012, we received notice of an antitrust and unfair competition lawsuit filed by Solyndra, LLC (a U.S.-based solar company) against us and two other China-based solar manufacturers in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. We filed our joint motion to dismiss all of the claims in an amended complaint by Solyndra’s liquidation trustee with our co-defendants (Suntech Power Holdings Co., Ltd., Suntech America, Inc., Trina Solar Ltd. and Trina Solar (U.S.) Inc.) in early March 2013. On April 9, 2014, we received an order denying defendants’ joint motion to dismiss Solyndra’s claims. A case management conference has been set for April 23, 2014, at which the court will likely set a schedule for the remainder of the Solyndra litigation. See “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal and Administrative Proceedings”. In October 2013, we received notice of an antitrust lawsuit with similar claims filed another U.S.-based solar company, by Energy Conversion Devices Liquidation Trust, or ECD, through its liquidating trustee, against us and the same China-based solar manufacturers in the U.S. District Court of the Eastern District of Michigan. See “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal and Administrative Proceedings”. In addition, we entered into several slurry processing and supply contracts with a supplier in the past. Starting from late 2011, due to certain quality control issues of the supplier and substantial changes in the slurry processing market, we and this supplier had disputes over the performance of the contracts and payments of accounts receivable. While we have been in discussion on the resolution of the disputes, this supplier has threatened to initiate legal actions against us. As of the date of this annual report, we have not received any summons or notice from any court or arbitration body. While it is premature at this stage to evaluate our potential liabilities or losses, if any, relating to such disputes, if we are found to be liable in legal actions or other proceedings this supplier may bring against us, our financial position may be adversely affected. Regardless of the merits, responding to allegations, litigation or legal or administration proceedings and defending against litigation can be time consuming and costly, and may result in us incurring substantial legal and administrative expenses, as well as divert the attention of our management. Any such allegations, lawsuits or proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Further, unfavorable outcomes from these claims or lawsuits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and key technical personnel, and our ability to maintain a skilled labor force. Our business may be materially and adversely affected if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers, in particular Liansheng Miao, our chief executive officer, Xiangdong Wang, our vice president, Zhiheng Zhao, our vice president, Yiyu Wang, our chief financial officer, Xiaoqiang Zheng, our chief operating officer, Dengyuan Song, our chief technology officer, Jingfeng Xiong, our vice president, and Zongwei Li, our vice president and chief strategic officer. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. In addition, if any of our executive officers join a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any disputes were to arise between one of our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you of the extent to which such officer’s employment agreement could be enforced in China. Furthermore, recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly experienced engineers and technicians familiar with our PV products manufacturing processes, is vital to maintaining the quality of our PV products and to continuously improving our production methods. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain qualified technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, key technical personnel and our executive officers, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Failure to manage our growth, or otherwise develop appropriate internal organizational structures, internal control environment and risk monitoring and management systems in line with our fast growth could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and operations have been expanding rapidly. Significant management resources must be expended to develop and implement appropriate structures for internal organization and information flow, an effective internal control environment and risk monitoring and management systems in line with our fast growth as well as to hire and integrate qualified employees into our organization. It is challenging for us to hire, integrate and retain qualified employees in key areas of operations, such as engineers and technicians who are familiar with the PV industry. In addition, disclosure and other ongoing obligations associated with being a public company further increase the challenges to our finance, legal and accounting team. It is possible that our existing risk monitoring and management system could prove to be inadequate. If we fail to appropriately develop and implement structures for internal organization and information flow, an effective internal control environment and a risk monitoring and management system, we may not be able to identify unfavorable business trends, administrative oversights or other risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Compliance with construction and environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with present or future construction and environment regulations may result in adverse publicity, potentially significant monetary damages and fines and suspensions of our business operations. Historically, we had started construction and operation of certain of our facilities without having obtained all of the necessary construction permits and environmental approvals as required under the relevant regulations. We also started constructing certain other facilities as part of our prior capacity expansion projects while applying for the relevant construction permits and environmental approvals. Both our prior and current failure to obtain the relevant construction permits and environmental approvals for construction of our facilities may prevent us from obtaining ownership certificates for our facilities. Our failure to obtain the construction permits, environmental approvals, and ownership certificates may subject us to fines or penalties, which may adversely affect our construction process, business operations and results of operations. Further, we started manufacturing without passing the examination and acceptance procedures as required under the relevant regulations. Our failure to pass the examination and acceptance procedures before commencement of manufacturing may subject us to penalties, such as monetary fines or suspension of our business operations. Moreover, on March 6 and March 12, 2014, Hainan Yingli received notices from the Department of Land, Environment and Resources of Hainan Province and Haikou Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau, respectively, requesting Hainan Yingli to (i) suspend partially its production lines, and (ii) apply for new environmental impact assessments for the increase in its production capacity due to equipment upgrades. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Environmental Matters”. In addition, the failure by us to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. Our manufacturing processes generate noise, waste water, gaseous and other industrial wastes and are required to comply with national and local regulations regarding environmental protection. Except as disclosed in this annual report, we believe we are currently in compliance with present environmental protection requirements in all material respects, and have obtained or in the process of obtaining all necessary environmental permits. In addition, if more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. If we fail to comply with any future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — PRC Governmental Regulations — Environmental Regulations”. We are subject to cyber security risks and breaches, which could adversely affect our business and disrupt our operations. We are subject to cyber security risks and may incur substantial costs to minimize those risks. Cyber security breaches, such as unauthorized access, accidents, employee errors or malfeasance, computer viruses, computer hackings or other disruptions, could compromise the security of our data and infrastructure, thereby exposing such information to unauthorized access by third parties. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy, protect against or alleviate these and related problems, and we may not be able to remedy these problems in a timely manner, or at all. Any security breaches that occur could disrupt our operations, increase our security costs, or expose us to potential losses due to data corruption or information leakage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit documentation related to their audit report included in this annual report may include audit documentation located in the People’s Republic of China. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board currently cannot inspect audit documentation located in China and, as such, you may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Our operations are conducted in China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities. Accordingly, no audit documentation located in China related to our independent registered public accounting firm’s reports included in our filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections conducted by the PCAOB outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audit documentation located in China and its related quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. 26 Table of Contents The Chinese member firm of the KPMG network, of which our independent registered public accounting firm is also a member, may be temporarily suspended from practicing before the SEC. If a delay in completion of our audit process occurs as a result, we could be unable to timely file certain reports with the SEC, which may lead to the delisting of our stock. In the year ended December 31, 2013, significant portion of our sales were to customers in China, and we have significant operations in China. Certain of our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit documentation related to their audit reports included in this annual report may be located in China, and certain audit procedures take place within China’s borders. The PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections in China or review audit documentation located within China without the approval of Chinese authorities. Like many U.S. companies with significant operations in China, our independent registered public accounting firm may rely on a Chinese member firm for assistance in completing the audit work associated with our operations in China. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, suspending the Chinese member firms of the “Big Four” accounting firms, including KPMG, from, among other things, practicing before the SEC for six months. The decision is not yet effective and will only become effective when and if the SEC endorses it. If the decision takes effect, the work of our auditors could be delayed and it will be difficult for us to identify and engage other qualified independent auditors. A delay in the completion of the audit process could delay the timely filing of our annual reports with the SEC. A delinquency in our filings with the SEC may result in NYSE initiating delisting procedures, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. The ordinary shares underlying the ADSs you purchased could become redeemable by us without your approval. Under the express terms of our ordinary shares, the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs in our issued and outstanding share capital are not redeemable. However, our board of directors may pass resolutions to allow us to redeem the ordinary shares from the holders and two-thirds of the votes cast by the holders of the ordinary shares may approve such variation of share rights. The minority shareholders will not be able to prevent their share rights being varied in such a way and their ordinary shares could become redeemable by us as a result. We have adopted a shareholders rights plan, which, together with the other anti-takeover provisions of our articles of association, could discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by the ADSs, at a premium. Our current articles of association contain provisions that limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. On October 17, 2007, our board of directors adopted a shareholders rights plan, which was amended on June 2, 2008. Under this rights plan, one right was distributed with respect to each of our ordinary shares outstanding at the closing of business on October 26, 2007. These rights entitle the holders to purchase ordinary shares from us at half of the market price at the time of purchase in the event that a person or group obtains ownership of 15% or more of our ordinary shares (including by acquisition of the ADSs representing an ownership interest in the ordinary shares) or enters into an acquisition transaction without the approval of our board of directors. This rights plan and the other anti-takeover provisions of our articles of association could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. Our existing authorized ordinary shares confer on the holders of our ordinary shares equal rights, privileges and restrictions. The shareholders have, by virtue of adoption of our third amended and restated articles of association, authorized the issuance of shares of par value of US$0.01 each without specifying any special rights, privileges and restrictions. Therefore, our board of directors may, without further action by our shareholders, issue our ordinary shares, or issue shares of such class and attach to such shares special rights, privileges or restrictions, which may be different from those associated with our ordinary shares. Preferred shares could also be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue ordinary shares or issue preferred shares, the price of the ADSs and the notes may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. A simple majority of the holders of our shares who vote at a general meeting may sub-divide any of our shares into shares of a smaller par value and may determine that, among the shares so sub-divided, some of such shares may have preferred or other rights or restrictions that are different from those applicable to other such shares. Under our articles of association, a simple majority of the holders of our shares who vote at a general meeting may sub-divide any of our shares into shares of a smaller par value than is fixed by our articles of association, subject to the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands, and may by such resolution determine that, among the shares so sub-divided, some of such shares may have preferred or other rights or restrictions that are different from those applicable to the other such shares resulting from such sub-division. Any sub-divided shares will be allocated on a pro-rated basis among the holders of our shares, and a two-thirds vote of any class of shares having special rights or restrictions as a result of such sub-division will be required to further vary the special rights or restrictions attached to such shares. The purpose of this provision is to give flexibility to the shareholders to vary the share capital by effecting a sub-division and alter the rights attaching to the sub-divided shares in order to facilitate transactions where shareholders provide benefits or contribute assets to our company in consideration of an enhancement of the rights of their shares rather than an issue of new shares. However, as the minority shareholders will not be able to prevent the majority shareholders from effecting such sub-division and designation of special rights or restrictions, such rights of our majority shareholders may discourage investors making an investment in us, which may have a material adverse effect on the price of the ADSs. 27 Table of Contents The quorum for the general meeting of our shareholders is one-third of our issued voting shares. Accordingly, shareholder resolutions may be passed without the presence of the majority of our shareholders in person or by proxy. The quorum required for the general meeting of our shareholders is two shareholders entitled to vote and present in person or by proxy or, if the shareholder is a corporation, by its duly authorized representative representing not less than one-third in nominal value of our total issued voting shares. Therefore, subject to obtaining the requisite approval from a majority of the shareholders so present, a shareholder resolution may be passed at our shareholder meetings without the presence of the majority of our shareholders present in person or by proxy. Such rights by the holders of a minority of our shares may discourage investors from making an investment in us, which may have a material adverse effect on the price of the ADSs. If a poll is not demanded at our shareholder meetings, voting will be by show of hands and shares will not be proportionately represented. Voting at any of our shareholder meetings is by show of hands unless a poll is demanded. A poll may be demanded by the chairperson of the meeting, or by at least three shareholders present in person or by proxy, or by any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy holding at least 10% of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right to vote at the meeting, or by a shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on the shares conferring that right. If a poll is demanded, each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote for each ordinary share registered in his name. If a poll is not demanded, voting will be by show of hands and each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote regardless of the number of shares registered in his name. In the absence of a poll, shares will therefore not be proportionately represented. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Our business is based in China and some of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, the level of development, the growth rate, the control of foreign exchange, and the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 20 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In addition, we cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform, or that if there is a slowdown, such slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. For example, the growth rate of China’s gross domestic product has slowed down in recent years, from 7.8% in 2012 to 7.7% in 2013. The Chinese government has set the gross domestic product growth rate at 7.5% for 2014. We cannot assure you that the various macroeconomic measures, monetary policies and economic stimulus package adopted by the PRC government to guide economic growth and the allocation of resources will be effective in sustaining the fast growth rate of the Chinese economy. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 28 Table of Contents Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of renewable energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We are incorporated in Cayman Islands and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to Sino-foreign equity joint venture companies and wholly foreign owned companies. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. The PRC rule on mergers and acquisitions may subject us to sanctions, fines and other penalties and affect our future business growth through acquisition of complementary business. On August 8, 2006, six PRC government and regulatory authorities, including the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, and the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, promulgated a rule entitled “Provisions regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors”, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009. The M&A Rule, as amended, among other things, established procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise, or a foreign company with substantial PRC operations, if certain thresholds under the Provisions on Thresholds for Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings, issued by the State Council on August 3, 2008, are triggered. Furthermore, MOFCOM promulgated the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Mergers and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors in August 2011, or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, which came into effect on September 1, 2011, to implement the Notice of the General Office of the State Council on Establishing the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated on February 3, 2011, or Circular No. 6. According to Circular No. 6, a security review is required for mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors of PRC domestic enterprises (i) having “national defense and security” concerns, and (ii) where the foreign investors may acquire the “de facto control” of the PRC domestic enterprises having national security concerns such as key farm products, key energy and resources, and key infrastructure, transportation, technology and major equipment manufacturing industries. Circular No. 6, however, does not define the term of “key” or “major”, nor has it exhausted all the industries that may be deemed as sensitive industries subject to the security review. When deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a domestic enterprise by foreign investors is subject to the security review by MOFCOM, the principle of “substance over form” should be applied and foreign investors are prohibited from bypassing the security review requirement by structuring transactions through nominee holding structure, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements, offshore transactions, or other means. We believe that our current business is not in an industry related to national security. However, we cannot preclude the possibility that MOFCOM or other government agencies may release interpretations or new rules contrary to our understanding or broaden the scope of such security review in the future. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. Complying with the requirements of these regulations in order to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit the completion of such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. PRC regulations relating to overseas investment by PRC residents may restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities and adversely affect the implementation of our strategy as well as our business and prospects. In 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a number of rules regarding offshore investments by PRC residents. The rule currently in effect, the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted Via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, known as SAFE Notice 75, was issued in October 2005. SAFE Notice 75 requires PRC residents to register with and/or receive approvals from SAFE in connection with certain offshore investment activities. An amendment to registration or filing with the local SAFE branch by such PRC resident is also required for the injection of equity interests or assets of an onshore enterprise in the offshore special purpose company or overseas funds raised by such offshore company, or any other material change involving a change in the capital of the offshore special purpose company. Moreover, to further clarify the implementation of SAFE Notice 75, since May 2007, SAFE has issued guidance to its local branches regarding the operational procedures for such registration, which provides more specific and stringent requirements on the registration relating to SAFE Notice 75. The guidance imposes obligations on PRC subsidiaries of the offshore special purpose company to coordinate with and supervise the beneficial owners of the offshore entity who are PRC citizens or residents to complete the SAFE registration process. If the shareholders or beneficial owners fail to comply, the PRC subsidiaries are required to report the noncompliance to the local branches of SAFE. Since we are a Cayman Islands company with a substantial portion of shares held by Yingli Power Holding Company Ltd., a British Virgin Islands company controlled by Mr. Liansheng Miao, our chairperson and chief executive officer and a PRC resident, Mr. Miao is subject to the registration requirements under SAFE Notice 75 and relevant SAFE guidance. 29 Table of Contents Mr. Miao made the requisite SAFE registration with respect to his investment in Yingli Power Holding Company Ltd. and us in August 2006. Mr. Miao amended his SAFE registration in June 2007, January 2008, October 2009 and January 2014, in connection with our initial public offering in June 2007, the secondary and convertible senior notes offerings in December 2007, the issuance of senior secured convertible notes and the follow-on offering in 2009, the change of Mr. Miao’s shareholding in Yingli Power Holding Company Ltd. and us in 2014, respectively. We have requested our other beneficial owners who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications and filings in connection with our offshore financing transactions as required under SAFE Notice 75 and relevant SAFE guidance. However, we cannot assure you that all of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents have complied with our request to apply for or obtain any registrations or approvals required under these or other regulations or legislation, such as any amendment registrations with local SAFE in relation to their ownership changes in us. The failure or inability of Mr. Miao or any of our other beneficial owners who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in SAFE Notice 75 and relevant SAFE guidance may subject Mr. Miao or such beneficial owner who is a PRC resident to fines and legal penalties, result in potential liability for our PRC subsidiaries, such as Tianwei Yingli, and in some instances, for their legal representatives and other liable individuals, limit our ability to contribute additional capital into or provide loans to our PRC subsidiaries, such as Tianwei Yingli, and may also limit their ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — PRC Governmental Regulations — Regulation of Foreign Exchange in Certain Onshore and Offshore Transactions” . Dividends we may receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and its implementation rules provide that withholding tax at a rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises”, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, unless any such non-PRC investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Furthermore, a circular issued by the Ministry of Finance, or the MOF, and the State Administration of Taxation on February 22, 2008 stipulates that undistributed earnings generated prior to January 1, 2008 are exempt from enterprise income tax. We are a Cayman Islands holding company, Yingli Green Energy (International) Holding Company Limited, or Yingli International, is a British Virgin Islands intermediate holding company and Cyber Lighting Holding Company Limited, or Cyber Lighting, is a Hong Kong intermediate holding company. The Cayman Islands and the British Virgin Islands where such holding companies are incorporated do not have a tax treaty with China. According to the Arrangement between Mainland China and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income entered into in August 2006, or the Mainland and the Hong Kong Taxation Arrangement, subject to the confirmation of the in-charge local tax authority, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its direct holding company in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of no more than 5%, if the foreign investor is the “beneficial owner” and owns directly at least 25% the equity interest of the foreign-invested enterprise. Furthermore, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement in October 2009, or Circular 601, which provides guidance for determining whether a resident of a contracting state is the “beneficial owner” of an item of income under China’s tax treaties and tax arrangements. According to Circular 601, a beneficial owner generally must be engaged in substantive business activities. An agent or conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits. A conduit company normally refers to a company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits. Substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC. Thus, dividends for earnings accumulated beginning on January 1, 2008 payable to us by our subsidiaries in China, if any, will be subject to a 10% withholding tax or, in the case of the dividends paid to Cyber Lighting, 5% withholding tax (subject to the confirmation of the local tax authority), if we are considered as “non-resident enterprises” under the EIT Law. We intend to reinvest indefinitely undistributed earnings since 2008 and therefore have not recognized a deferred income tax liability for those earnings. If we are subject under the EIT Law to such withholding tax for any dividends we may receive from our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely increase our income tax expense. 30 Table of Contents We and some of our subsidiaries may be deemed resident enterprises under the EIT Law and be subject to PRC taxation as to our worldwide income. The EIT Law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation rules for the EIT Law issued by the State Council, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties and other factors of an enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Overseas Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or SAT Circular 82 which sets out criteria for determining whether “de facto management bodies” are located in China for overseas incorporated, domestically controlled enterprises. However, as this circular only applies to enterprises incorporated under laws of foreign countries or regions that are controlled by PRC enterprises or groups of PRC enterprises, it remains unclear how the tax authorities will determine the location of “de facto management bodies” for overseas incorporated enterprises that are controlled by individual PRC residents like us and some of our subsidiaries. Therefore, although substantially all of our management is currently located in the PRC, it remains unclear whether the PRC tax authorities would require or permit our overseas registered entities to be treated as PRC resident enterprises. If the PRC tax authorities determine that Yingli Green Energy and some of our subsidiaries, such as Yingli International, Yingli Capital, Yingli Hong Kong, Cyber Power and Cyber Lighting, are PRC resident enterprises, we and such subsidiaries may be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% as to our global income, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us would be exempt from the PRC dividend withholding tax, since such income distribution is exempted under the EIT Law if paid to PRC resident recipients. Dividends payable by us to non-PRC holders of our ordinary shares or ADS and gains on the sale of our ordinary shares or ADSs may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the EIT Law and implementation rules issued by the State Council, PRC withholding tax at a rate of 10% is applicable to payments of dividends to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such payments of dividends have their sources within the PRC. PRC withholding tax at a rate of 20% is applicable to payments of dividends to investors who are non-resident individuals, to the extent such payments of dividends have their sources within the PRC. Any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or ordinary shares by such investors is also subject to the PRC income tax if such gain constitutes income derived from sources within the PRC. It is currently unclear what constitutes income derived from sources within the PRC. Therefore, it is unclear whether dividends we may pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax if we were treated as a PRC resident enterprise. Furthermore, according to Circular 601, a beneficial owner generally must be engaged in substantive business activities. An agent or conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits. A conduit company normally refers to a company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits. We cannot assure you that any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders whose jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China providing for a different withholding arrangement will be entitled to the benefits under the relevant withholding arrangement. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to non-PRC holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. The strengthened scrutiny over acquisition transactions by the PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on our acquisition strategy. In order to strengthen their scrutiny over the direct or indirect transfer of equity interest in a PRC resident enterprise by a non-resident enterprise, the PRC State Administration of Taxation issued, on December 10, 2009, the Notice on Strengthening the Management on Enterprise Income Tax for Non-resident Enterprises Equity Transfer, or Circular 698, which became effective retroactively on January 1, 2008. Under Circular 698, the PRC State Administration of Taxation has the authority to redefine the nature of an equity transfer where offshore vehicles are interposed for tax-avoidance purposes and without reasonable commercial purpose. Since we consistently pursue acquisitions as one of our growth strategies, and have conducted and may conduct acquisitions involving complex corporate structures, the PRC tax authorities may, at their discretion, adjust the capital gains or request us to submit additional documentation for their review in connection with any of our acquisitions, thus causing us to incur additional acquisition costs. 31 Table of Contents Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive dividends from our PRC subsidiaries and their ability to obtain overseas financing. Under the Foreign Currency Administration Rules, the foreign exchange incomes of domestic entities and individuals can be remitted into China or deposited abroad, subject to the terms and conditions to be issued by SAFE. Our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends to their shareholders, including us, in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions, including payment of such dividends. Foreign exchange transactions for capital account items, such as direct equity investments, loans and repatriation of investments, by our PRC subsidiaries continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of PRC governmental authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our PRC subsidiaries borrow foreign currency-denominated loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with the local offices of SAFE. These limitations could affect their ability to obtain additional equity or debt funding that is denominated in foreign currencies. PRC regulation of direct investment and loans by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or limit us from making additional capital contributions or loans to our PRC subsidiaries. Any capital contributions or loans that we, as an offshore entity, make to our PRC subsidiaries, are subject to PRC regulations. For example, any of our loans to our PRC subsidiaries cannot exceed the difference between the total amount of investment our PRC subsidiaries are approved to make under relevant PRC laws and the respective registered capital of our PRC subsidiaries, and must be registered with the local branch of SAFE as a procedural matter. In addition, our capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries must be approved by MOFCOM or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these approvals on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to obtain such approvals, our ability to make equity contributions or provide loans to our PRC subsidiaries or to fund their operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect their liquidity and its ability to fund their working capital and expansion projects and meet their obligations and commitments. In addition, our capital contributions and, in limited circumstances, loans, to Tianwei Yingli are also subject to approvals by Tianwei Baobian, the holder of the minority equity interest in Tianwei Yingli. See “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company — Joint Venture Contract — Increase or Reduction of Tianwei Yingli’s Registered Capital”. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC operating subsidiaries and limitations on their ability to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are a holding company and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our major PRC operating subsidiaries, including Tianwei Yingli, Yingli China, Fine Silicon and Hainan Yingli New Energy Resources Co., Ltd., or Hainan Yingli, a PRC limited liability company and a majority-owned subsidiary of Yingli China, for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. If Tianwei Yingli, Yingli China, Hainan Yingli, Tianjin Yingli or Lixian Yingli incurs debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. As entities established in China, Tianwei Yingli, Yingli China, Hainan Yingli, Tianjin Yingli and Lixian Yingli are subject to certain limitations with respect to dividend payments. PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. As a Sino-foreign equity joint venture, Tianwei Yingli is also required to set aside each year a percentage, as decided by its board of directors, of its after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards to its reserve fund, enterprise development fund and employee bonus and welfare fund. As of December 31, 2013, such restricted reserves of Tianwei Yingli amounted to RMB236.9 million (US$39.1 million) and its accumulated profits that were unrestricted and were available for distribution amounted to RMB2,227.2 million (US$367.9 million). As a foreign investment enterprise, Yingli China is required to allocate at least 10% of its after-tax profits to its reserve fund until the cumulative amount of such reserve fund reaches 50% of its registered capital, and to set aside a certain amount of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to its employee bonus and welfare fund. These reserves may not be distributed as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2013, such restricted reserves of Yingli China amounted to RMB183.9 million (US$30.4 million), and its accumulated losses amounted to RMB104.4 million (US$17.2 million). As a PRC domestic company, Hainan Yingli is required to allocate at least 10% of its after-tax profits to its reserve fund until the cumulative amount of such reserve fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves may not be distributed as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2013, such restricted reserves of Hainan Yingli amounted to RMB54.1 million (US$8.9 million) and its accumulated profits that were unrestricted and were available for distribution amounted to RMB454.9 million (US$75.1 million). 32 Table of Contents As a PRC domestic company, Tianjin Yingli is required to allocate at least 10% of its after-tax profits to its reserve fund until the cumulative amount of such reserve fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves may not be distributed as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2013, such restricted reserves of Tianjing Yingli were nil and its accumulated profits that were unrestricted and were available for distribution amounted to RMB24.4 million (US$4.0 million). As a PRC domestic company, Lixian Yingli is required to allocate at least 10% of its after-tax profits to its reserve fund until the cumulative amount of such reserve fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves may not be distributed as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2013, such restricted reserves of Lixian Yingli amounted to RMB2.0 million (US$0.3million) and its accumulated profits that were unrestricted and were available for distribution amounted to RMB1.2 million (US$0.2 million). In addition, if any of our PRC operating subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Limitations on the ability of our PRC operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Accordingly, if for any of the above or other reasons, we cannot receive dividends from our PRC operating subsidiaries, our liquidity, financial condition and ability to make dividend distributions to our shareholders will be materially and adversely affected. SAFE rules and regulations may limit our ability to convert and transfer the net proceeds from our financings to our PRC subsidiaries, which may adversely affect the business expansions of our PRC subsidiaries, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from our financings into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, or SAFE Notice 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. The notice requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of SAFE Notice 142 may result in severe penalties, such as heavy fines. On November 19, 2012, SAFE promulgated the Circular on Further Improving and Adjusting the Policies on Administration of Foreign Exchange under Direct Investment, or Circular 59, which came into force on December 17, 2012. Circular 59 relaxes the foreign exchange controls over inbound and outbound investments by PRC companies and simplifies the current administrative system, especially in foreign currency capital settlement and foreign exchange registration procedures of foreign invested enterprises. However, the restrictions imposed by the SAFE Notice 142 are still effective. As SAFE Notice 142 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from our financings to our PRC subsidiaries, the business expansions of our PRC subsidiaries may be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from our financings into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies. All employee participants in our existing stock option plans who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional option plans for our directors and employees under PRC law. Pursuant to the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, promulgated on January 5, 2007 by SAFE and the Notices on Issues concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Share Incentive Plans of Overseas-listed Company, or the Share Option Rules, promulgated in February 2012 by SAFE, which terminated the Operating Procedures on Administration of Foreign Exchange for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Share Ownership Plans and Share Option Plans of Overseas-listed Company issued by SAFE in March 2007, PRC citizens or residents habitually residing in the PRC continuously for over one year, who are granted shares or share options by an overseas-listed company according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required, through the PRC subsidiary of such overseas-listed company or qualified PRC agents, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share holding plan, share option plan or other similar share incentive plans. Concurrent with the registration with SAFE, the PRC subsidiary or qualified PRC agent shall obtain the approval for an annual allowance with respect to the foreign exchange in connection with the share holding or share option exercises as well as the approval of opening a special foreign exchange account at a PRC domestic bank to hold the funds required in connection with the share purchase or share option exercise, returned principal or profits upon sale of shares, dividends issued on the stock and any other income or expenditures approved by SAFE. Currently, the participating PRC residents’ foreign exchange income received from the sale of share and dividends distributed by the overseas-listed company must be fully remitted into the domestic foreign currency account before distribution to such participants. In addition, the PRC agents are required to amend or deregister the registrations with SAFE in case of any material change in, or termination of, the share incentive plans, within the time periods provided by the Share Option Rules. The failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and the participants of our employee stock option plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from further granting options under our employee stock option plan to our employees, which could adversely affect our business operations. 33 Table of Contents We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks of contagious diseases. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak. In 2005 and 2006, there were reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. During 2007 and early 2008, there have been reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian flu, caused by the H5N1 virus, in certain regions of Asia and Europe. In 2009 and 2010, there were reports on the occurrences of swine flu, caused by the H1N1 virus, in Mexico, the United States, China and certain other countries and regions around the world. Recently, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu, caused by the H7N9 virus, in certain regions in China. An outbreak of avian flu or swine flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, any recurrence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 which affected China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, would also have similar adverse effects. These outbreaks of contagious diseases, and other adverse public health developments in China, would have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include restrictions on our ability to travel or to ship our products outside of China, as well as cause temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, swine flu, SARS or any other epidemic. Risks Related to The ADSs The market price for the ADSs has been volatile. The market price for the ADSs has been and will continue to be highly volatile. Since the ADSs became listed on the NYSE on June 8, 2007, the trading prices of the ADSs have ranged from US$1.25 to US$41.50 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on April 9, 2014 was US$4.33 per ADS. The price of the ADSs may continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: · announcements of technological or competitive developments; · regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; · announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; · announcements of studies and reports relating to the conversion efficiencies of our products or those of our competitors; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; · changes in financial projections or estimates about our financial or operational performance by securities research analysts; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other PV technology companies; · addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and · sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of the ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of the ADSs in the public market could cause the price of the ADSs to decline. As of the date of this annual report, we had 156,763,770 ordinary shares outstanding, including 103,592,337 ordinary shares represented by ADSs. All ADSs sold in our public offerings are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. All of the remaining ordinary shares outstanding are, subject to the applicable requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, available for sale. If our existing shareholders sell, or are perceived as intending to sell, substantial amounts of our ordinary shares or ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of our outstanding stock options, the market price of the ADSs could fall. Such sales, or perceived potential sales, by our existing shareholders might make it more difficult for us to issue new equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and place we deem appropriate. 34 Table of Contents Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. As a holder of ADSs, you will not be treated as one of our shareholders and you will not have shareholder rights. Instead, the depositary will be treated as the holder of the shares underlying your ADSs. However, you may exercise some shareholders’ rights through the depositary, and you will have the right to withdraw the shares underlying your ADSs from the deposit facility. Under our current articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting will be ten days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We plan to make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. The depositary for the ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless: · we have failed to provide the depositary with the notice of meeting and related voting materials at least 30 days prior to the date of such shareholders’ meeting; · we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; · we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; · a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse effect on shareholders; or · voting at the meeting is made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence our management. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of the ADSs has agreed to pay you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for the ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration required for such distribution cannot be obtained after reasonable efforts are made by the depositary. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of the ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of the ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. 35 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. As a holder of the ADSs, your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, as a holder of the ADSs, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of the ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, shareholders of a Cayman Islands company may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a company incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. For example, contrary to the general practice in most corporations incorporated in the United States, Cayman Islands law does not require that shareholders approve sales of all or substantially all of a company’s assets. The limitations described above will also apply to the depositary who is treated as the holder of the shares underlying your ADSs. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States and a substantial majority of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 