Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this report before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and an investor in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business Generally General economic conditions may have an adverse impact on demand for our products. The global economy has recently experienced a downturn. Demand for products requiring significant capital expenditures, such as our DSS units and CVD reactors, is affected by general economic conditions. The downturn in the global construction market has reduced demand for solar panels in new residential and commercial buildings, which in turn has reduced demand for our products that are used in the manufacture of photovoltaic wafers, cells and modules and polysilicon for the solar power industry. Uncertainty about economic conditions, negative financial news, tighter credit markets and declines in asset values has caused our customers to postpone making purchases of capital equipment. Increasing budgetary pressures could reduce or eliminate government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications. Some economists are predicting that the United States economy, and possibly the global economy, could be in a prolonged recession or even a depression. A prolonged downturn in the global economy could have a material adverse effect on our business in a number of ways, including decreased demand for our products, which would result in lower sales and reduced backlog. The current economic conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions and identify the risks that may affect our business. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Current or future credit and financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations in several ways. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. The current tightening of credit in financial markets has resulted in reduced funding worldwide and a higher level of uncertainty for solar cell module manufacturers. As a result, some of our customers have been delayed in securing or prevented from securing funding adequate to honor their existing contracts with us or to enter into new contracts to purchase our products. We believe the reduced availability of funding for new manufacturing facilities and facility expansions, together with reduced demand for solar panels, has caused a decrease in orders for our products. We currently require most of our customers to prepay a portion of the purchase price of their orders. We use these customer deposits to prepay our suppliers to reduce the need to borrow to cover our cash needs for working capital. This practice may not be sustainable if the current market conditions continue. During the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009, some of our photovoltaic customers failed to make deposits when due under their contracts, and we terminated those contracts. As a result of these terminations and other contracts revisions, our order backlog was reduced by approximately $39 million during the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009. Certain of our large customers in our photovoltaic business have requested that we extend the delivery schedules under our contracts with them. We are currently in negotiations with these customers over their requests. Any contract modifications that we negotiate could include an extension of delivery dates, and could result in lower pricing or in a reduction in the number of units deliverable under the contract, thereby reducing our order backlog. Recently we have rescheduled and/or cancelled a significant portion of our commitments to our vendors to procure materials in our photovoltaic business to reflect our reduced production plan for fiscal year ending April 3, 2010 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009. In the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009 we recognized losses of $11.3 million resulting from expected forfeitures of vendor advances and reserves against 16 Table of Contents advances on inventory purchases with vendors that have become financially distressed. We may be required to reschedule and/or cancel additional commitments to vendors in the future. Certain of our customers in our polysilicon business have also requested that we extend the delivery schedules under their contracts in our order backlog. If there is a breach of a polysilicon contract, we may be required to cancel purchase orders with our vendors to procure materials associated with that contract and reimburse the vendor for costs incurred to the date of termination plus predetermined profits. In cases where we do not cancel the related purchase orders when a customer breaches, our purchase commitments would exceed our order backlog requirements and we may be unable to redeploy the undelivered equipment. A delay in deliveries would cause us to have inventories in excess of our short-term needs, and may delay our ability to recognize revenue on contracts in our order backlog. Additional contract breaches or cancellation of orders would prevent us from recognizing revenue on contracts in our order backlog. Such credit and financial market conditions may similarly affect our suppliers. We may lose advances we make to our suppliers in the event they become insolvent because our advances are not secured or backed by letters of credit. The inability of our suppliers to obtain credit to finance development and/or manufacture our products could result in delivery delays or prevent us from delivering our products to our customers. In addition, the volatility in the credit markets has severely diminished liquidity and capital availability. While the ultimate outcome of the disruptions in the credit markets cannot be predicted, they may result in events that could prevent us from borrowing money from our existing lenders under our senior credit facility. If the credit crisis continues, the senior credit facility may not continue to be available to us in accordance with terms of the agreement. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, and any resulting effects or changes, including those described above, may have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Amounts included in our order backlog may not result in actual revenue or translate into profits. As of March 28, 2009, our order backlog was approximately $1.2 billion. Although our order backlog is based on signed purchase orders or other written contractual commitments, we cannot guarantee that our order backlog will result in actual revenue in the originally anticipated period or at all. In addition, the contracts included in our order backlog may not generate margins equal to our historical operating results. We have only recently begun to track our order backlog on a consistent basis as a performance measure and, as a result, we do not have significant experience in determining the level of realization that we will actually achieve on our backlog. Our customers may experience project delays or defaults on the terms of their contracts with us as a result of external market factors and economic or other factors beyond our control. During the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009, some of our customers failed to make deposits when due under their contracts, and we terminated those contracts as a result of the customers' breach. As a result of these terminations and other contract revisions, our order backlog was reduced by approximately $39 million during the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009. In addition, certain of our large customers have requested that we extend the delivery schedules under their contracts in our order backlog. We are currently in negotiations with these customers over their requests. Any contract modifications that we negotiate could likely include an extension of delivery dates, and could result in lower pricing or in a reduction in the number of units deliverable under the contract, thereby reducing our order backlog. If we cannot come to an agreement with these customers, it could result in a reduction of our order backlog. If our order backlog fails to result in revenue in a timely manner, or at all, we could experience a reduction in revenue, profitability and liquidity. 17 Table of Contents We currently depend on a small number of customers in any given fiscal year for a substantial part of our sales and revenue. In each fiscal year, we depend on a small number of customers for a substantial part of our sales and revenue. For example, in the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009, four customer accounted for 62% of our revenue; in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, one customer accounted for 62% of our revenue and in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, three customers accounted for 70% of our revenue. In addition, as of March 28, 2009, we had a $1.2 billion order backlog, of which $726 million was attributable to three customers. As a result, the default in payment by any of our major customers, the loss of existing orders or lack of new orders in a specific financial period, or a change in the product acceptance schedule by such customers in a specific financial period, could significantly reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. We anticipate that our dependence on a limited number of customers in any given fiscal year will continue for the foreseeable future. There is a risk that existing customers will elect not to do business with us in the future or will experience financial difficulties. Furthermore, many of our customers are at an early stage and many are dependent on the equity capital markets to finance their purchase of our products. As a result, these customers could experience financial difficulties and become unable to fulfill their contracts with us. There is also a risk that our customers will attempt to impose new or additional requirements on us that reduce the profitability of those customers for us. If we do not develop relationships with new customers, we may not be able to increase, or even maintain, our revenue, and our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected. Our success depends on the sale of a limited number of products. A significant portion of our operating profits has historically been derived from sales of DSS units, with DSS sales accounting for 72% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009, 79% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and 85% of our revenue in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. There can be no assurance that DSS sales will increase beyond, or be maintained at, past levels. Factors affecting the level of future DSS sales include factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, competing product offerings by other photovoltaic equipment manufacturers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully diversify our product offering to include, for example, additional CVD reactors and converters, and thereby increase our revenue and/or maintain our profits in the event of a decline in DSS sales. If sales of DSS units decline for any reason, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of third party suppliers. We use component parts supplied by a small number of third party suppliers in our products and source most equipment used in our turnkey solutions from third party suppliers. Our supplier agreements are typically short-term in nature, which leaves us vulnerable to the risk that our suppliers may change the terms on which they have previously supplied products to us or cease supplying products to us at any time and for any reason. There is no guarantee that we will maintain relationships with our existing suppliers or develop new relationships with other suppliers. In addition, many of our suppliers are small companies that may cease operations for any reason, including financial viability reasons, and/or may be unable to meet increases in our demand for component parts and equipment, as we expand and grow our business. We are also dependent on our suppliers to maintain the quality of the components we use and the increased demands placed on these suppliers as we continue to grow may result in quality control problems. We may be unable to identify replacement or additional suppliers or qualify their products in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. Component parts supplied by new suppliers may also be less suited to our products than the component parts supplied by our existing suppliers. Certain of the component parts used in our products have been developed, made or adapted specifically for us. Such parts are not 18 Table of Contents generally available from many vendors and could be difficult to source elsewhere. As a result, there may be a significant time lag in securing an alternative source of supply. Our failure to obtain sufficient component parts and/or third party equipment that meet our requirements in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms could interrupt or impair our ability to fabricate our products and provide turnkey solutions, and may adversely impact our plans to expand and grow our business, as well as result in a loss of market share. Further, such failure may prevent us from delivering our products as required by the terms of our contracts with our customers, and may harm our reputation and result in breach of contract and other claims being brought against us by our customers. Any changes to our current supply arrangements, whether to the terms of supply from existing suppliers or a change in our suppliers, may also increase our costs. As a result of any of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. We may face product liability claims and/or claims in relation to third party equipment. It is possible that our products could result in property damage and/or personal injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper use or installation or other causes. We cannot predict whether or not product liability claims will be brought against us or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on our business, which may include loss of existing customers, failure to attract new customers and a decline in sales. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages being payable by us, and we may not have adequate resources to satisfy any judgment against us. Furthermore, it may be difficult to determine whether any damage or injury was due to product malfunction or operator error. For example, two of our customers have experienced accidents at their respective facilities involving our DSS units, the most recent of which occurred in December 2006, and resulted in two deaths. To date, we have not received any product liability or other claims with respect to such accidents. The bringing of product liability claims against us, whether ultimately successful or not, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. We provide third party equipment in connection with both turnkey solutions and stand-alone sales. There can be no guarantee that such third party equipment will function in accordance with our intended or specified purpose or that the customer's personnel, in particular those who are inexperienced in the use of the specialized equipment sold by us, will be able to install and operate it, which may result in the return of products and/or claims by the customer against us. In the event of a claim against us, there is no guarantee that we will be able to recover all or any of our loss from the third party equipment provider. Any such claim, in particular in the case of a turnkey solution where the customer may return other equipment sold by us or cancel related orders, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Our future success depends on our management team and on our ability to attract and retain key employees and to integrate new employees into our management team successfully. We are dependent on the services of our management team. Although certain of these individuals are subject to service agreements with us, any and all of them may choose to terminate their employment with us on thirty or fewer days' notice. The loss of any member of the management team could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. There is a risk that we will not be able to retain or replace these or other key employees. Integrating new employees into our management team could prove disruptive to our daily operations, require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention and ultimately prove unsuccessful. This may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. 19 Table of Contents We may be unable to attract, train and retain technical personnel. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to continue to develop and improve our technology and to attract, train and retain experienced and knowledgeable technical personnel. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the polysilicon and/or solar products industries, is vital to our success. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and qualified personnel are currently, and for the foreseeable future are likely to remain, a limited resource. Locating candidates with the appropriate qualifications, particularly for our New Hampshire and Montana locations, can be costly, time-consuming and difficult. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract new, or retain existing, technical personnel. We may need to provide higher compensation or increased training to our personnel than currently anticipated. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, or must change the terms on which our personnel are employed, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property adequately and may face litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete effectively against other solar equipment manufacturers will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our current and future proprietary technologies, product designs, business methods and manufacturing processes under relevant intellectual property laws, combined in some circumstances with protecting our patent, trademark and copyright rights and rights under trade secrecy and unfair competition laws. Third parties may infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate our proprietary technologies, product designs, manufacturing processes and our intellectual property rights therein, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Litigation to prevent, or seek compensation for, such infringement, misappropriation or other violation may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business without any guarantee of success. We rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. This includes both proprietary information of ours and proprietary information licensed from third parties. While we generally enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property and that of our licensors, such confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements could be breached and are limited, in some instances, in duration, and may not provide meaningful protection for the trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise that we hold or that is licensed to us. We have had in the past and may continue to have certain of our employees terminate their employment with us to work for one of our customers or competitors. Adequate or timely remedies may not be available in the event of misappropriation, unauthorized use or disclosure of our manufacturing expertise, technological innovations and trade secrets. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our manufacturing expertise, technological innovations and trade secrets through independent development or other legal means and, in such cases, we could not assert any trade secret rights against such a party. As of March 28, 2009, we had 11 U.S. patents, 9 pending U.S. patent applications, 5 foreign patents and 15 pending foreign patent applications. To the extent that we rely on patent protection, our patents may provide only limited protection for our technology and may not be sufficient to provide competitive advantages to us. For example, competitors could develop similar or more advantageous technologies or design around our patents. In addition, patents are of limited duration. Any issued patents may also be challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable. If our patents are challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable, other companies will be better able to develop products that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. Further, we may not have, or be able to obtain, effective patent protection in all of our key sales territories. Our patent applications may not result in issued patents and, even if they do result in issued patents, the patents may not include rights of the scope that we seek. The patent position of technology-oriented 20 Table of Contents companies, including ours, is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. Accordingly, we do not know what degree of protection we will obtain from our proprietary rights or the breadth of the claims allowed in patents issued to us or to others. Further, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important to our business. Certain of the intellectual property used by us are used under license from third parties. In the event that we were to breach the terms of such license agreements, we could lose our ability to use the relevant intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to operate. The international nature of our business subjects it to a number of risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in foreign countries. A substantial majority of our marketing and distribution takes place outside the United States, and a substantial percentage of our sales are to customers outside the United States. In the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009, we derived 87% of our revenue from sales to customers in Asia. We also have contracts with customers in Europe and expect to recognize revenue from sales to customers in Europe in the future. As a result, we are subject to the legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions other than the United States. Risks inherent to maintaining international operations, include, but are not limited to, the following: •withholding taxes or other taxes on our foreign income, tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls imposed by or in other countries; •the inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights in other jurisdictions, at a reasonable cost or at all; •difficulty with staffing and labor force and managing widespread operations; •trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make our product offering less competitive in some countries; and •our establishing ourselves and becoming tax resident in foreign jurisdictions. Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed under differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop, implement and maintain policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. As a result of any of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to the legal systems of the countries in which we offer and sell our products. We offer and sell our products internationally, including in some emerging markets. As a result, we are and/or may become subject to the laws, regulations and legal systems of the various jurisdictions in which we carry on business and/or in which our customers or suppliers are located. Among the laws and regulations applicable to our business are health and safety and environmental regulations, which vary from country to country and from time to time. We must therefore design our products and ensure their manufacture so as to comply with all applicable standards. Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, including any change in existing legal and regulatory requirements, may cause us to incur costs and may be difficult, impractical or impossible. Accordingly, foreign laws and regulations which are applicable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. As a result of the procedural requirements or laws of the foreign jurisdictions in which we carry on business and/or in which our customers or suppliers are located, we may experience difficulty in enforcing 21 Table of Contents supplier or customer agreements or certain provisions thereof, including, for example, the limitations on the product warranty we typically provide to our customers. In some jurisdictions, enforcement of our rights may not be commercially practical in light of the duration, cost and unpredictability of such jurisdiction's legal system. Any inability by us to enforce, or any difficulties experienced by us in enforcing, our contractual rights in foreign jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. We face particular commercial, jurisdictional and legal risks associated with our business in China. We have had significant sales in China. For example, in the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009, Chinese companies accounted for 62% of our revenue. Further, we have recently opened facilities in China. Accordingly, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected by economic, political and legal conditions and/or developments in China. Examples of economic and political developments that could adversely affect us include government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In addition, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China remain government owned. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditures by solar product manufacturers, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Additionally, China has historically adopted laws, regulations and policies which impose additional restrictions on the ability of foreign companies to conduct business in China or otherwise place them at a competitive disadvantage in relation to domestic companies. Any adverse change in economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on our overall economic growth and therefore have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. We also face risks associated with Chinese laws and the Chinese legal system. China's legal system is rapidly evolving and, as a result, the interpretation and enforcement of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and legal proceedings in China often involve uncertainties. The legal protections available to us may therefore be uncertain and may be limited. Enforcement of Chinese intellectual property related laws has historically been weak, primarily because of ambiguities in Chinese laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, the intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections available to us in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. In addition, any litigation brought by or against us in China may be protracted and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention and the anticipated outcome would be highly uncertain. As a result of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected. We may face claims in relation to the infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of proprietary manufacturing expertise, technological innovation, and other intellectual property rights. We face potential claims by third parties of infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of such third parties' intellectual property rights. From time to time we have received and may in the future receive notices or inquiries from other companies regarding our services or products suggesting that we may be infringing their patents or misappropriating their intellectual property rights. Such notices or inquiries may, among other things, threaten litigation against us. In some instances these notices or inquiries may be sent by patent holding companies who have no relevant product line and against whom our patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence. Furthermore, the issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have the right to practice the patented invention. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing our own patented product and practicing our own patented technology. In addition, third parties could allege that our products and processes make use of their unpatented 22 Table of Contents proprietary manufacturing expertise and/or trade secrets, whether in breach of confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements or otherwise. If an action for infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of third party rights were successfully brought against us, we may be required to cease our activities on an interim or permanent basis and could be ordered to pay compensation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Additionally, if we are found to have willfully infringed certain intellectual property rights of another party, we may be subject to treble damages and/or be required to pay the other party's attorney's fees. Alternatively, we may need to seek to obtain a license of the third party's intellectual property rights or trade secrets, which may not be available, whether on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, any litigation required to defend such claims brought by third parties may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business, without any guarantee of success. Moreover, we may also not have adequate resources to devote to our business in the event of a successful claim against us. From time to time, we hire personnel who may have obligations to preserve the secrecy of confidential information and/or trade secrets of their former employers. Some former employers monitor compliance with these obligations. For example, a former employer of three of our current employees, one of whom is one of our executive officers, contacted us seeking assurance that its ex-employees were honoring their confidentiality obligations to the former employer. We also received a similar inquiry from the former employers of two other employees. In both instances, we believe that we have provided such former employers with such assurance. While we have policies and procedures in place to guard against the risk of breach by our employees of confidentiality obligations to their former employers, there can be no assurance that a former employer of one or more of our employees will not allege a breach and seek compensation for alleged damages. If such a former employer were to successfully bring such a claim, our know-how and/or skills base could be restricted and our ability to produce certain products and/or to continue certain business activities could be affected, to the detriment of our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. We may potentially be subject to concentration of credit risk related to our cash equivalents. We may potentially be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the financial counterparties to our cash investments. This risk may be heightened as a result of the current financial crisis and volatility in the markets. We manage the concentration risk by making investments that comply with our investment policy. Currently, our cash equivalents are invested in exchange traded money market mutual funds. Although we do not currently believe the principal amounts of these investments are subject to any material risk of loss, the recent volatility in the financial markets is likely to significantly impact the investment income we receive from these investments. In general, increases of credit risk related to our cash equivalents could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Our new credit facilities contain covenants that impose significant restrictions on us. We have recently entered into a senior credit facility and a cash-collateralized letter of credit facility, in each case, with a syndicate of financial institutions. We have the capacity to incur substantial indebtedness under the senior credit facility. Furthermore, the credit agreements that we enter into with respect to these facilities contain covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to make certain distributions with respect to our capital stock, prepay other debt, encumber our assets, incur additional indebtedness, engage in business combinations and undertake various other corporate activities. These covenants require us also to maintain certain specified financial ratios, including those relating to net leverage and fixed charge coverage. 23 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with any of the covenants set forth in the final credit agreements could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness, if any, under these facilities. If such acceleration occurs, we would be required to repay our indebtedness, and we may not have the ability to do so or the ability to refinance our indebtedness. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be available on acceptable or reasonable terms. An acceleration of our indebtedness could impair our ability to operate as a going concern. We may face significant warranty claims. Our DSS products are generally sold with a standard warranty for technical defects for a period equal to the shorter of: (i) twelve months from the date of acceptance by the customer; or (ii) fifteen months from the date of shipment. We provide longer warranty coverage in our polysilicon business, typically covering a period not exceeding twenty-four months from delivery. The warranty is typically provided on a repair or replace basis, and is not limited to products or parts manufactured by us. As a result, we bear the risk of warranty claims on all products we supply, including equipment and component parts manufactured by third parties. Our warranty expenses were approximately $2.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 28, 2009, $1.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and $0.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in claiming under any warranty or indemnity provided to us by our suppliers in the event of a successful warranty claim against us by a customer or that any recovery from such supplier would be adequate. There is a risk that warranty claims made against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Exchange rate fluctuations may make our products less attractive to non-U.S. customers and otherwise have a negative impact on our operating results. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and almost all of our contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, approximately 98%, 99% and 90% of our revenue was generated from sales to customers located outside the United States in the fiscal years ended March 28, 2009, March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2007 respectively, and we expect that a large percentage of our future revenue will continue to be derived from sales to customers located outside the United States. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could make our products less attractive to non-U.S. customers and therefore decrease our sales and gross margins. In addition, we incur costs in the local currency of the countries outside the United States in which we operate and as a result are subject to currency translation risk. Exchange rates between a number of foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly over the last few years and future exchange rate fluctuations may occur. Currently, our largest foreign currency exposure is the Euro, primarily from purchases of equipment from vendors located in Europe. We enter into forward foreign exchange rate contracts to hedge portions of these purchases. Our hedging activities may not be successful in reducing our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Future exchange rate fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. An increase in interest rates or the reduced availability of financing could reduce the demand for our products. Our customers may use debt or equity financing to purchase our products and otherwise run their businesses. As a result, an increase in interest rates or the reduced availability of financing in any of the markets in which our customers operate, including Europe, Asia and the United States, could make it difficult for existing and potential customers to secure the financing necessary to purchase our products. In addition, end users of photovoltaic products may depend on debt financing to fund the initial capital expenditures required to purchase and install photovoltaic applications. As a result, an increase in interest rates or the reduced availability of financing could make it difficult for end-users to secure necessary financing on favorable terms, or at all and therefore could reduce demand for photovoltaic products. Any 24 Table of Contents such decrease in demand for photovoltaic products could, in turn, result in decreased demand for our products, which are used in the manufacture of photovoltaic products. Thus, an increase in interest rates or the reduced availability of financing could lower demand for our products, reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. We are subject to securities class action lawsuits that could adversely affect our business. This litigation, and potential similar or related litigation, could result in substantial damages and may divert management's time and attention from our business. Beginning on August 1, 2008, a series of putative securities class action lawsuits were commenced in both the United States District Court for the District of New Hampshire, which has been consolidated in a single action under the caption Braun et al. v. GT Solar International, Inc., et al., as well as New Hampshire state court in the Superior Court for Hillsborough County, Southern District, under the caption Hamel v. GT Solar International, Inc., et al., alleging that we, certain of our officers and directors, the underwriters in our July 2008 initial public offering and others, including certain of our investors, violated various sections of the Securities Act. A derivative suit, captioned Fan v. GT Solar Int'l, Inc., et al., was filed in New Hampshire state court on January 14, 2009 (the "derivative action"). The derivative complaint is asserted nominally on behalf of the Company against certain of the Company's directors and officers and alleges various claims for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, abuse of control and gross mismanagement and is premised on the same purported misconduct alleged in the federal action. The complaints, among other things, allege that the registration statement for our July 2008 initial public offering contained material misstatements and omissions regarding our business relationship with LDK Solar, Ltd., one of our customers, JYT Corporation, one of our competitors, and certain of our products, including DSS furnaces. The lawsuits seek, among other things, unspecified compensatory damages plus rescission, interest, attorneys' fees and costs. All of the federal lawsuits have been consolidated. See "Item 3—Legal Proceedings." We intend to defend these claims vigorously. Nonetheless, the lawsuits discussed above may result in costly and protracted litigation, which may require significant commitment of our financial and management resources and time. The ultimate outcome of any litigation is uncertain and could result in substantial damages. Either favorable or unfavorable outcomes could have a material negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations, due to defense costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. In addition, we may in the future be the target of securities class action lawsuits similar to those described above. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions by regulatory authorities. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We will be required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 3, 2010. We will be evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. While we anticipate being able to implement requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 by this deadline, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or NASDAQ. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or investors' confidence in us and could cause our stock price to fall. In addition, the controls and procedures that we will implement may not comply with all of the relevant rules and regulations of the SEC and NASDAQ. If we fail to develop and maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be 25 Table of Contents unable to provide financial information in a timely and reliable manner, subjecting us to sanctions and harm to our reputation. Risks Relating to Our Polysilicon Business Our CVD reactor is a new product from which we have only recently begun to recognize revenue. We believe that our CVD reactor will account for a significant portion of our future revenue. The first of our CVD reactors were delivered to a customer in August 2007, but pre-established reactor output performance criteria were not met until fiscal year ended March 28, 2009. Although the required output performance criteria were met with respect to the aforementioned customers, no assurance can be given that we will succeed in meeting the output performance measures in the future. Pre-established reactor performance criteria for our 48-rod reactor have not yet been met. If we fail to perform our obligations in respect of the CVD reactor orders we have received, such orders may be terminated and/or we may be required to pay damages or refund all or a portion of the purchase price. Failure to successfully develop our polysilicon products and/or to perform our obligations in respect of orders for CVD reactors could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions, results of operations, business and/or prospects. We license and do not own the technology underlying our new CVD reactor and STC converter products. The technology underlying our new CVD reactor and STC converter products is not owned by us, but is licensed under a ninety-nine year license agreement that could be terminated in the event of a material breach by us of such agreement that remains uncured for more than thirty days, or upon our bankruptcy or insolvency. Any termination of our rights to use the technology underlying our new CVD reactor and STC converter products would have a material adverse effect on our ability to offer our polysilicon products and therefore on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. See "Business—Intellectual Property" for further details on the agreement pursuant to which we have licensed the CVD reactor and STC converter technology. Revenue recognition on sales of our new CVD reactor and STC converter products may be affected by a number of factors, some of which are outside our control. Revenue from sales of our reactors and converters is presently recognized by us only upon customer acceptance in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. The timing of customer acceptance depends on many factors, some of which are outside our control. Acceptance of our polysilicon products does not occur until after they have been received by the customer, are operational and have performed satisfactorily in agreed upon tests. Due to the complexity of integrating the reactors into the customers' plants, it is possible that there may be significant delay between our shipping the reactors and the reactors becoming operational and capable of being tested. There is therefore a risk that we may be unable to recognize revenue on our existing orders in our backlog for polysilicon products in a timely manner or at all, even if we fully perform our obligations in respect of such orders in a timely manner. Delay in customer acceptance of such orders could adversely affect further demand for our reactors and STC converters, and may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. As a new product, our CVD reactor and STC converter are currently not classified as established products under our revenue recognition policies. New products are not classified as established products until post-delivery acceptance and installation have been determined to be routine as a result of: (i) the acceptance process and criteria largely mirroring pre-shipment testing and checks; and (ii) a history of achieving pre-determined installation cost targets for such products. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of our polysilicon products being considered new products under our revenue recognition policy and the significant size of our individual contracts for polysilicon products. 26 Table of Contents The market for polysilicon has been cyclical, resulting in periods of insufficient or excess production capacity and could result in variation in demand for our products. The market for polysilicon has been cyclical. In recent years, there was a shortage of polysilicon due to production capacity that was insufficient to meet demand. Recently, polysilicon supply has increased due to an increase in polysilicon production capacity as a result of new entrants to the polysilicon production industry. Polysilicon supply has also increased due to a slowdown in the solar panel market and in the semiconductor device market. An excess in production capacity for polysilicon could adversely affect demand for our CVD reactors and STC converters. A lack of demand for our CVD reactor and STC converter products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Conversely, if there are shortages of polysilicon in the future, the photovoltaic industry may be unable to continue to grow and/or may decline, and, as a result, demand for our solar products may decrease or may be eliminated. Our polysilicon business faces direct and indirect competition. We are not the only potential provider of polysilicon production equipment to the market. Further, the technology underlying our CVD reactor product is not the only known technology for producing polysilicon. Our CVD reactor is based on the Siemens process, which is a method whereby silicon depositions from silane or trichlorosilane, or TCS, gas are grown on heated rods inside a cooled bell jar. An alternative polysilicon production method is the fluidized bed reactor, or FBR, process, in which polysilicon is grown from hot polysilicon granules suspended in an upward flow of silane or TCS gas inside a specially designed chamber. The FBR process has certain advantages over the Siemens process, including allowing for the continuous production and extraction of polysilicon, consuming less energy and being less labor intensive. There can be no assurance that the FBR process or other polysilicon growth technologies will not supersede the Siemens process as the most commonly used method of polysilicon production. If other technologies for producing polysilicon become more widely used or more widely available, demand for our CVD reactor product, and thus our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects, may be adversely affected. Existing direct competitors of our polysilicon business include two German companies and one United States company that we believe have recently entered into several contracts to deliver CVD reactors, based upon what we believe is an existing proven Siemens process reactor design. There can be no assurance that our polysilicon business will compete successfully with these companies. Other existing direct competitors of our polysilicon business include a Russian company and a Chinese company. Although we believe our CVD reactor product to be distinct from the competing products offered by this Russian company and this Chinese company, there can be no assurance that our CVD reactor product will compete successfully with their products. If we are unable to compete successfully with these other products, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Polysilicon producers currently compete indirectly with our polysilicon business, as demand for our CVD reactor and converter products is likely to be adversely affected by increases in polysilicon supply. Announcements have indicated that major polysilicon producers, including Renewable Energy Corporation ASA, Hemlock Semiconductor Corporation, Wacker Chemie AG, MEMC Electronic Materials, Inc., Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. and Tokuyama Corporation, may be planning increases in their polysilicon production capacity. Our polysilicon business may also face competition from competitors of which we are not currently aware or which enter into competition with our polysilicon business in the future. Potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than us. Therefore, other manufacturers may have a competitive advantage because they can realize economies of scale, synergies and purchase certain raw materials and key components at lower prices. Our potential competitors may also have greater brand name recognition, more established distribution networks and 27 Table of Contents larger customer bases, and may be able to devote more resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products or to respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. We rely upon a limited number of suppliers of key components and manufacturers for our polysilicon products. We use specialist manufacturers to provide vessels and power supplies which are essential to the manufacture and operation of our polysilicon products. Although we currently use five vessel manufacturers and two power supply manufacturers, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining relationships with any supplier, or that any suppliers will perform as we expect. Our failure to obtain components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture CVD reactors and/or STC converters, and/or increase our costs. In particular, there is a risk that manufacturers being used by us for the CVD reactors may not be able to deliver our products to us in a sufficiently timely manner to enable us to fulfill our obligations to the customer. As a result, we may face breach of contract claims and our reputation may be harmed, which could interrupt or impair our ability to conduct and/or expand our polysilicon business and thereby have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Risks Relating to the Photovoltaic Industry We face competition from other manufacturers of equipment for photovoltaic products. The solar energy industry and wider renewable energy industry are both highly competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to distinguish themselves within their niche markets and compete with the larger electric power industry. In addition to solar equipment manufacturers, we face competition from companies producing and/or developing other photovoltaic technologies. Many of these competitors have, and future competitors may also have, substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. These resources may provide these other manufacturers with a competitive advantage because they can realize economies of scale, synergies and purchase certain raw materials and key components at lower prices. Current and potential competitors of ours may also have greater brand name recognition, more established distribution networks and larger customer bases, and may be able to devote more resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products or to respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications could be reduced or eliminated. Demand for photovoltaic equipment, including on-grid applications, has historically been dependent in part on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Currently, the cost of solar electricity substantially exceeds the retail price of electricity in most major markets in the world. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain, South Korea, Japan, China and the United States, have provided subsidies in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax write-offs and other incentives to end-users, distributors, systems integrators and/or manufacturers of photovoltaic products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Many of these government incentives are due to expire in time, phase out over time, cease upon exhaustion of the allocated funding and/or are subject to cancellation or non-renewal by the applicable authority. For example, in Germany, which historically has been a major market for photovoltaic products, subsidies decline at a rate of between 5% and 6.5% per 28 Table of Contents year, based on the type and size of the photovoltaic system, and discussions are currently underway concerning potential amendments to Germany's Renewable Energy Act, or EEG, which may include the reduction or elimination of subsidies there under. In Spain, which has also been a major market for photovoltaic products, the government has recently reduced subsidies from 2,400 MW per year to 500 MW of solar projects for 2009. Further, any government subsidies and economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether at any time and for any reason. Relevant statutes or regulations may be found to be anti-competitive, unconstitutional or may be amended or discontinued for other reasons. For example, the predecessor to the EEG was challenged in Germany on constitutional grounds and in the European Court of Justice as impermissible state aid. Although such challenge was unsuccessful, new proceedings challenging the EEG or comparable minimum price regulations in other countries in which we conduct our business may be initiated. Amendments to the EEG are currently being discussed and there can be no assurance that subsidies and economic incentives under the EEG or other similar legislation in other countries will not be reduced or eliminated. The reduction, expiration or elimination of relevant government subsidies or other economic incentives may result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy relative to conventional and other renewable sources of energy, and adversely affect demand for photovoltaic equipment or result in increased price competition, all of which could cause our sales and revenue to decline and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of photovoltaic products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are currently being modified and may be modified again in the future. These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of photovoltaic products and investment in the research and development of photovoltaic technology. For example, without a mandated regulatory exception for photovoltaic systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to end-users of photovoltaic systems and make such systems less attractive to potential customers, which may have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. The photovoltaic industry may not be able to compete successfully with conventional power generation or other sources of renewable energy. Although the photovoltaic industry has experienced substantial growth over the last five years, it still comprises a relatively small component of the total power generation market and competes with other sources of renewable energy, as well as conventional power generation. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of photovoltaic technology and thus demand for solar wafer manufacturing equipment, including the following: •cost-effectiveness of solar energy compared to conventional power generation and other renewable energy sources; •performance and reliability of solar modules compared to conventional power generation and other renewable energy sources and products; 29 Table of Contents •availability and size of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar energy industry; •success of other renewable energy generation technologies such as hydroelectric, wind, geothermal and biomass; and •fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional power generation and other renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels. As a result of any of the foregoing factors, our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Technological changes in the photovoltaic industry could render existing products and technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. The photovoltaic industry is rapidly evolving and is highly competitive. Technological advances may result in lower manufacturing costs for photovoltaic products and/or photovoltaic product manufacturing equipment, and may render existing photovoltaic products and/or photovoltaic product manufacturing equipment obsolete. We will therefore need to keep pace with technological advances in the industry, including committing resources to ongoing research and development, acquiring new technologies, continually improving our existing products and continually expanding and/or updating our product offering, in order to compete effectively in the future. Our failure to further refine our technology and/or develop and introduce new solar power products could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could adversely affect demand for our products, and our financial condition, results of operations, business and/or prospects. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The owners of our major stockholder, GFI and Oaktree, continue to have significant influence over all matters submitted to a stockholder vote, which limit the ability of other shareholders to influence corporate activities and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Upon completion of the initial public offering, GT Solar Holdings, LLC continues to own or control common stock representing, in the aggregate, a 78.3% voting interest in us. Investment funds managed by GFI and Oaktree are the managing members and principal shareholders of GT Solar Holdings, LLC. As a result, GFI and Oaktree have substantial influence over the outcome of votes on all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and approval of significant corporate transactions. GFI and Oaktree can also take actions that have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. These actions may be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. Moreover, this concentration of stock ownership may make it difficult for stockholders to replace management. In addition, this significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. This concentration of control could be disadvantageous to other stockholders with interests different from those of our officers, directors and principal stockholders and the trading price of shares of our common stock could be adversely affected. Conflicts of interest may arise because some of our directors are principals of our principal stockholder. Two partners of GFI serve on our eight-member board of directors. GFI and its affiliates may invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us or companies in which they currently invest may begin 30 Table of Contents competing with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of GFI and the interests of our other stockholders arise, these directors may not be disinterested. Although our directors and officers have a duty of loyalty to us under Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible so long as (1) the material facts relating to the director's or officer's relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our board of directors and a majority of our disinterested directors, or a committee consisting solely of disinterested directors, approves the transaction, (2) the material facts relating to the director's or officer's relationship or interest as to the transaction are disclosed to our stockholders and a majority of our disinterested stockholders approves the transaction or (3) the transaction is otherwise fair to us. GFI and its affiliates and investment funds do not have any duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines of business that we do. Under our certificate of incorporation, none of GFI or its affiliates and investment funds (together a "GFI Entity"), nor any director, officer, stockholder, member, manager and/or employee of a GFI Entity, has any duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines of business that we do. In the event that any GFI Entity acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity for itself and us, we will not have any expectancy in such corporate opportunity, and the GFI Entity will not have any duty to communicate or offer such corporate opportunity to us and may pursue or acquire such corporate opportunity for itself or direct such opportunity to another person. In addition, GFI's representatives will not be required to offer to us any transaction opportunity of which they become aware and could take any such opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless such opportunity is expressly offered to them solely in their capacity as a director of ours. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, could depress our stock price. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. In addition, future equity financings could also result in dilution to our stockholders and new securities could have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of the shares offered hereby. As of March 28, 2009, we had 143.0 million shares of common stock outstanding of which approximately 78.3% are owned by GT Solar Holdings, LLC, which is controlled by investment funds affiliated with GFI and Oaktree, which have demand registration rights with respect to shares held indirectly by them. If this right is exercised and a large number of shares are sold, these holders could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Moreover, approximately 7.1 million additional shares of our common stock were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding vested and unvested options and upon vesting of restricted stock units. In the event that any outstanding options are exercised, existing shareholders would suffer immediate and substantial dilution of their investment. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders may receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management 31 Table of Contents by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: •the removal of directors only by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds of the shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; •any vacancy on our board of directors, however occurring, including a vacancy resulting from an enlargement of the board, may only be filled by vote of the directors then in office; •inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders or take action by written consent; •advance notice requirements for board nominations and proposing matters to be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and •authorization of the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock without the need for action by stockholders. Our common stock has only been publicly traded since July 24, 2008, and we expect that the price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. There has been a public market for our common stock prior only since July 24, 2008. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: •actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; •changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who may cover our stock or our failure to meet the estimates made by securities analysts; •changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; •changes in governmental policies with respect to energy; •additions or departures of key personnel; and •sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers or by our principal stockholders. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect that our quarterly results will continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect that our quarterly results will continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Future quarterly fluctuations may result from a number of factors, including: •the size of new contracts and when we are able to recognize the related revenue, especially with respect to our new polysilicon products; •requests for delays in deliveries by our customers; •delays in customer acceptances of our products; •delays in deliveries from our vendors; •our rate of progress in the fulfillment of our obligations under our contracts; •the degree of market acceptance of our products and service offerings; 32 Table of Contents •the mix of products and services sold; •budgeting cycles of our customers; •product lifecycles; •changes in demand for our products and services; •the level and timing of expenses for product development and sales, general and administrative expenses; •competition by existing and emerging competitors in the photovoltaic industry; •our success in developing and selling new products and services, controlling costs, attracting and retaining qualified personnel and expanding our sales force; •changes in our strategy; •foreign exchange fluctuations; and •general economic conditions. Based on these factors, we believe our future operating results will vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. As a result, quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful nor do they indicate what our future performance will be. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and as a result, the only opportunity to achieve a return on an investment in our common stock is if the price appreciates. On June 30, 2008 we declared a dividend in the aggregate amount of $90.0 million that was paid to the then existing stockholders, including GT Solar Holdings, LLC. We paid that dividend on August 1, 2008. We currently do not expect to declare or pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, the only opportunity to achieve a return on an investment in our common stock will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and the shares are sold at a profit. We cannot assure our investors that the market price for our common stock will ever exceed the price that was paid. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance. From time to time, we release guidance in our quarterly earnings releases, quarterly earnings conference call or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our management's estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, is based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual 33 Table of Contents results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon, or otherwise consider, our guidance in making an investment decision in respect of our common stock. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in our "Risk Factors" in this annual report on Form 10-K could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and such differences may be adverse and material. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 