D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Us and the PV Industry Adverse economic conditions in our target markets as well as an increased supply of PV modules have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Demand for our products substantially depends on general economic conditions in our target markets. The economies of many countries around the world, including those in our target markets, experienced a period of slow economic growth and adverse credit market conditions as a result of the global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 and the subsequent sovereign debt crisis in Europe. As PV system projects generally require significant upfront capital expenditures, our customers historically have relied on financing for the purchase of our products. As a result of weakened macroeconomic conditions and in particular adverse credit market conditions, our customers experienced difficulty in obtaining financing on attractive terms or at all. As a result, growth rate of demand for PV modules has declined significantly since the fourth quarter of 2008. Although credit market conditions have improved since the second quarter of 2009, which contributed to an increase in demand for our products, demand for our products slowed again in the first and fourth quarters of 2011, the third quarter of 2012, the first quarter of 2013, and the first quarter of 2014. This slowed demand was primarily caused by seasonal factors, including challenging weather conditions and holidays, as well as the adjustments to subsidies and economic incentives for PV installations as part of government austerity measures in many countries. In addition, overall supply of PV modules has increased due to production capacity expansion by PV module manufacturers worldwide in recent years which, together with slower growth in demand for PV modules and increasingly severe market competition, resulted in lower prices for PV modules beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in the average selling price of our PV modules caused our gross profit margin to decrease significantly from 16.7% for 2011 to negative 3.2% for 2012. While we have achieved cost savings through vertical integration, economies of scale and technological improvements and achieved grosss profit of 10.9% for 2013 and 17.3% for 2014, we continued to incur operating and net losses in 2013 and 2014. There can be no assurance that the demand for our products will increase or remain at the current level or such demand will not decline again in the near future, or our cost saving efforts will improve our profitability or prevent our profit margin from declining further. While the average selling price of our PV modules has stabilized since the second quarter of 2013, there can be no assurance that we will not experience decreases in the average selling price of our PV modules in the future or further declines in demand for our products, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations as well as meet future capital requirements. If we cannot obtain additional capital when we need it, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations. We also will require cash to meet future capital requirements, which are difficult to predict. Our ability to obtain additional financing in the future is subject to various uncertainties, including (i) our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; (ii) general market conditions for financing activities by manufacturers of PV and related products; and (iii) economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. As a result of weakened macroeconomic conditions including adverse credit market conditions and our weakened financial position in recent years, we have experienced and may continue to experience increased difficulty in obtaining financing on acceptable terms or at all. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities would result in further dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness has resulted and may continue to result in increased fixed obligations, and has led and could continue to lead to the imposition of financial or other restrictive covenants that would restrict our operations. 7 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to meet our payment obligations under our debt instruments and further grow our business. We have relied primarily on borrowings from commercial banks in China to fund a significant portion of our capital expenditures and working capital needs, and we expect to continue doing so in the future. We have a significant amount of debt and debt service requirements. As of December 31, 2014, we had RMB 10,112.1 million (US$1,629.8 million) in outstanding short-term borrowings (including the current portion of medium-term notes and long-term debt), RMB1,713.3 million (US$276.1million) in outstanding medium-term notes (excluding RMB 2.34 billion that have or will become due in 2015) and RMB2,858.2 million (US$460.7 million) in outstanding long-term debt (excluding the current portion). This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: · making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations in respect of our outstanding debt; · resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with any of the financial and other restrictive covenants specified by our debt agreements, which could result in cross-defaults in other debt obligations which would lead to such other debt becoming immediately due and payable; · reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes as a result of interest payments, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; · subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are otherwise less leveraged. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to meet our payment obligations under our debt instruments. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our debt instruments (including RMB 2.34 billion of medium-term notes that have or will become due in 2015) depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate adequate cash flow from operations to support our operations and service our debt obligations, or that future debt or equity will be available to us under our existing or any future credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding debt while continuing to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt. We have significant short-term borrowings outstanding, and we may not be able to renew our short-term borrowings when they mature. As of December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, our outstanding short-term borrowings (including the current portion of medium-term notes and long-term debt) were RMB7,526.0 million, RMB 6,715.9 million, and RMB 10,112.1 million (US$1,629.8 million), respectively, and bore weighted average interest rates of 5.9%, 5.8% and 6.2% per annum, respectively. Generally, these loans contain no specific renewal terms, although traditionally we have negotiated renewing certain of these loans shortly before they were to mature. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew similar loans in the future as they mature. If we are unable to renew any future loans or obtain sufficient funding from alternative sources and on reasonable terms, we will have to repay these borrowings with cash generated by our future operations, if any. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay our future borrowings. 8 Table of Contents A significant portion of our borrowings are arranged and guaranteed by our related parties. The deterioration of the guarantors’ financial condition may materially and adversely affect our ability to maintain current borrowings or obtain additional borrowings when needed. As of December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, 45.8%, 53.6% and 46.2%, respectively, of our outstanding short-term borrowings (including the current portion of medium-term notes and long-term debt), and 13.5%, 20.7% and 8.7%, respectively, of our outstanding long-term borrowings (excluding the current portion of long-term debt) were arranged or guaranteed by our related parties, including Yingli Group, a PRC company controlled by Mr. Liansheng Miao, and its affiliates. If the financial condition of these related-party guarantors deteriorates for any reason, the lenders of our borrowings may require us to provide additional guaranty or collateral to secure our performance under the existing loan agreements, which may not be immediately available on reasonable terms and conditions or at all. If we fail to provide such additional guaranty or collateral, the banks may declare us to be in breach of contract and would be entitled to accelerate the maturity of the affected borrowings. In addition, any change in these related-party guarantors’ final position or their willingness to provide further guarantees may materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain additional borrowings in the future, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our cash resources and liquidity. The high cost or inaccessibility of financing for solar energy projects has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. If financing for solar energy projects continues to become more costly or inaccessible, the growth of the market for solar energy applications may be materially and adversely affected, which could adversely affect demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. The demand for our products, as reflected by the average selling price of our PV modules, has decreased significantly since the fourth quarter of 2008, due partly to tightened credit for financing PV system projects as the result of the global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 and the subsequent sovereign debt crisis in Europe. In addition, rising interest rates could render existing financings more expensive, as well as hinder potential financings that otherwise would spur the growth of the PV industry. Furthermore, some countries, government agencies and the private sector have, from time to time, provided subsidies or financing on preferred terms for rural electrification programs. Some of our products are used in “off-grid” solar energy applications, where solar energy is provided to end users independent of an electricity transmission grid. We believe that the availability of financing could have a significant effect on sales of off-grid solar energy applications, particularly in developing countries where users otherwise may not have sufficient resources or credit to acquire PV systems. If these existing financing programs are reduced or eliminated, or if financing for solar energy projects continues to be in short supply or become more expensive, demand for our products would be materially and adversely affected and our revenue and profits could decline as a result. A significant reduction in or discontinuation of government subsidies and economic incentives may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. Demand for our products substantially depends on government incentives aimed at promoting greater use of solar power. In many countries where we are currently active or intend to become active, PV markets generally — and the market for “on-grid” PV systems in particular — would not be viable commercially without government incentives. This is because the costs of generating electricity from solar power currently exceed the costs of generating electricity from conventional or non-solar sources of renewable energy. The scope of government incentives for solar power depends largely on political and policy developments in a given country related to environmental, economic or other concerns, which could lead to a significant reduction in or a discontinuation of the support for renewable energy sources in such country. For example, subsidies have been reduced or eliminated in some countries such as Germany, Italy and Spain. In June 2012, the German government passed the PV amendment to its renewable energy law (EEG) 2012, which changed the 52 gigawatts capacity threshold, reduced the available PV rate, revised the volume-based degression schedule, and limited the amount of electricity that PV generators can export to the grid. On July 5, 2013, the Italian government discontinued feed-in tariff payments, and feed-in tariffs for new solar PV projects have not been available since July 2013. In August 2013, the National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC, of China adjusted feed-in tariffs for utility scale PV projects from the nationwide benchmark price of RMB1.00 per kWh to three regional variations of RMB0.90 per kWh, RMB0.95 per kWh and RMB1.00 per kWh, based on solar resources and construction costs in the relevant regions. The new feed-in tariff policy will apply to all PV plants approved after September 1, 2013, and those approved before that date but not commissioned until on or after January 1, 2014. In addition, in certain countries, including countries to which we export PV products, government financial support of PV products has been, and may continue to be, challenged as being unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful. A significant reduction in the scope or discontinuation of government incentive programs, especially in our target markets, would have a material and adverse effect on the demand for our PV modules as well as our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We face risks associated with the marketing and sale of our PV products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, our ability to expand our business abroad will be limited. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, 76.7%, 66.1% and 64.8%, respectively, of our total net revenues derived from our sales to customers outside of China, including customers in Japan, the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, India, France, South Africa, Algeria, Brazil, Turkey, Israel and Honduras, etc. We intend to grow further our business activities in China’s domestic market and various international markets, in particular those in Japan, the United States and selected countries in South America, Southeast Asia, Africa and the Middle East, where we believe the PV market is likely to grow significantly in the near term. The marketing and sale of our PV products to international markets expose us to a number of risks, including, but not limited, to: · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · increased costs associated with maintaining the ability to understand local markets and follow their trends, as well as develop and maintain effective marketing and distributing presences across various countries; · the availability of advance payments made by our customers; · difficulty in providing customer service and support in these markets; · difficulty in staffing and managing overseas operations; · failure to develop appropriate risk management and internal control structures tailored to overseas operations; · difficulty and costs relating to compliance with different commercial and legal requirements of overseas markets; · failure to obtain or maintain certifications for our products or services in these markets; · inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; · unanticipated changes in prevailing economic conditions and regulatory requirements; and · trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses. Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond timely and effectively to rapid changes in market conditions in relevant countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed under different legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not be able to develop and implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. To the extent that we conduct business in foreign countries by means of participations or joint ventures, there are additional risks. See “— We may undertake acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, and such undertakings may be unsuccessful.” A change in one or more of the factors described above may have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks relating to adverse trade policies imposed against exports from China in certain important markets for our products. Although our sales to markets in Europe have declined due to continuous reductions in incentives in the European market and the disturbance of trade measures initiated by the European Commission against Chinese solar companies, we still export a substantial amount of our products to Europe. In 2014, our sales to Europe accounted for 19% of our total revenue. 10 Table of Contents On September 5 and November 8, 2012, respectively, the European Commission initiated anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations into crystalline silicon photovoltaic, or CSPV, wafers, cells, and modules from China. On June 4, 2013, the European Commission issued its provisional anti-dumping determination and on August 2, 2013, the European Commission accepted an undertaking, or the Undertaking, made by a group of Chinese PV products exporters (including us) jointly with the China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic Products, or CCCME. Pursuant to the Undertaking, certain Chinese exporters would limit their exports of solar panels to the EU to a certain quota and set prices above a minimum price, in exchange for the EU agreeing to forgo the imposition of anti-dumping duties on these solar panels from China. CCCME was responsible for allocating the quota among these exporters, and we were allocated a portion of the quota. On December 5, 2013, the Council of the European Union adopted the final findings of the European Commission and imposed anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on CSPV modules and key components (i.e. cells) originating in or consigned from the PRC. Wafers were excluded from the scope of products subject to these final findings. The anti-dumping duty rates ranged from 27.3% to 64.9%, while the anti-subsidy duty rates ranged from 0% to 11.5%. The anti-dumping duty and anti-subsidy duty rates applicable to us are 35.5% and 6.3%, respectively. The definitive duties are being imposed for a two-year period starting from December 6, 2013. At the same time, the Council of the European Union also confirmed the European Commission’s acceptance of the Undertaking. While we were exempted from paying any anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties to the EU starting from August 6, 2013, increased sale prices and reduced consumption in the European market under the Undertaking may bring significant uncertainties to our business in the European market. For example, increased price for our modules sold in EU has made returns for some ground-mounted solar projects of our customers less attractive and demand in large-utility projects have declined in Europe compared with the period before the effectiveness of the Undertaking. We also face competitions from modules manufactured in third countries at a lower price than ours. In addition, if we breach or withdraw from the Undertaking, or the European Commission withdraws its acceptance of the Undertaking, the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties previously applicable to us would automatically apply to us at the prior rates. Thus, there can be no assurance that our entry into and performance of the Undertaking will entirely protect our business in Europe and results of operations from and against any and all potential material and adverse effects of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties. We also export a substantial amount of our products to the United States. On November 7, 2012, the U.S. International Trade Commission, or the ITC, determined that CSPV modules produced from Chinese cells were materially injuring the U.S. CSPV cells and modules industry. On October 10, 2012, the U.S. Department of Commerce, or the DOC, had issued its final determinations on rates of anti-dumping, or AD, and countervailing duties, or CVD, to be applied to CSPV cells and modules imported from China. As a result of these final determinations, we, as a voluntary respondent, became subject to an average aggregated AD/CVD rate of 29.18%. However, this average aggregated AD/CVD rate is subject to change due to the administrative review process initiated by the DOC in early 2014. We were a mandatory respondent in the first administrative review on the AD investigation and had obtained a much lower preliminary AD rate than in the original investigations. We expect that the final determinations with respect to this review will be made in May, 2015. On January 23, 2014, the DOC initiated a parallel AD investigation into CSPV products from Mainland China and Taiwan and a CVD investigation into CSPV products from Mainland China. The products concerned were CSPV cells, modules, laminates and/or panels consisting of CSPV cells, whether or not partially or fully assembled into other products, including building integrated materials. Subject merchandise also included modules, laminates and/or panels assembled in Mainland China and Taiwan consisting of CSPV cells that were completed or partially manufactured within a customs territory other than Mainland China and Taiwan, using ingots, wafers that were manufactured in Mainland China and Taiwan, or cells where the manufacturing process began in Mainland China and Taiwan and was completed in other countries. On December 23, 2014, the DOC published its confirmative final determination in respect of these investigations by imposing punitive AD tariffs ranging from 26.71% to 165.04% and CVD tariffs ranging from 27.64% to 49.21%. As a separate rate company in these investigations, the AD and CVD tariffs applicable to the Company are 52.31% and 38.43%, respectively. On February 10, 2015, the ITC issued its final injury determinations by confirming injury inflicted upon the US CSPV module industry by Chinese CSPV module manufacturers. As a result of the respective determinations of the DOC and the ITC, Chinese modules integrating cells from third countries will be subject to the new AD and CVD tariffs when exported to the US. Although our US sales of modules incorporating third country cells are very limited, the DOC’s and ITC’s determinations may materially and adversely affect our flexibility and our business in the US market. 11 Table of Contents In December 2014, the US DOC published its formal notice for the second administrative review and we were selected mandatory respondent in both the AD and CVD reviews. We will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in these administrative reviews. On November 23, 2012, the Department of Commerce of the Government of India initiated its anti-dumping investigations concerning into imports of photovoltaic products originating in or exported from Malaysia, China, Taiwan and the United States. Both crystalline silicon and thin-film products are were under investigation. Relevant investigatory authorities in India issued recommended tariffs ranging from 0.11 USD/watt to 0.81 USD/watt. However, since these recommendations were not supported by India’s ministry of finance, the punitive tariffs were not levied against Chinese modules exported into the Indian market. On May 14, 2014, the Antidumping Commission of Australian Customs and Border Protection Services, or the Anti-dumping Commission, initiated an anti-dumping investigation into certain PV modules or panels exported to Australia from China. Subject merchandise includes certain crystalline silicon PV modules or panels, whether exported assembled or unassembled, and whether or not they have an inverter capable of producing any power. On April 6, 2015, the Anti-dumping Commission determined that the injury caused by Chinese solar-panels exports to the Australian industry is negligible. Although this finding is preliminary and subject to change upon evaluation of submissions by interested parties, the Anti-dumping Commission will terminate this investigation if no meaningful submissions are made by interested parties. There can be no assurance that any governmental or international trade body in the future will not institute trade policies or remedies that are adverse to exports from China. Any significant changes in international trade policies, practices or trade remedies, especially those instituted in our target markets or markets where our major customers are located, could potentially increase the price of our products relative to our competitors or decrease our customers’ demand for our products, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. Our polysilicon costs may be higher than those of other market players due to our long-term commitment to purchase polysilicon at fixed prices, and we have failed to perform certain of our obligations under these long-term polysilicon supply contracts according to their original terms. In response to the industry-wide shortage of polysilicon in recent years until the third quarter of 2008, we had entered into short-, medium- and long-term supply contracts with fixed or adjustable prices guided by set formulas to secure our supply of polysilicon. Since the fourth quarter of 2008, the price of polysilicon has decreased significantly as a result of increased industry-wide polysilicon manufacturing capacity and downward price pressure exerted by decreasing average selling prices of PV modules. To address this significant decrease in polysilicon prices, we have renegotiated, and are still negotiating, with our polysilicon suppliers to reduce purchase prices for a substantial amount of polysilicon supplied under certain of our polysilicon supply contracts. In 2013, we achieved significant progress in these negotiations, and purchase prices under certain of our long-term polysilicon supply contracts were close to the market price of polysilicon. In 2011, we recognized a total non-cash provision of RMB851.7 million on our inventory purchase commitments under long-term polysilicon supply contracts as a result of lower polysilicon prices. We did not recognize such a provision in 2012. In 2013, we recognized an additional provision of RMB 480.2 million on our inventory purchase commitments under long-term polysilicon supply contracts as a result of our reassessment of purchase commitments under those supply contracts based on then-current market prices of polysilicon and then-current status of our performance of, and negotiations with our suppliers under the contracts. Our management has been negotiating with our suppliers on adjusting the prices under these long-term contracts. Should the results of these ongoing negotiations differ from the assessment based on which we recognized such provisions in 2011 and 2013, these provisions would need to be adjusted accordingly to reflect such a new assessment. If the prices under our current contracts remain higher than prices for polysilicon available in the market, we may incur higher polysilicon costs relative to other competitors who purchase their polysilicon from the spot market. We have not fully performed our long-term polysilicon supply contracts on their original terms due to continuously declining market prices of polysilicon. We have successfully renegotiated pricing terms with some of our long-term polysilicon suppliers. Although we received various requests from some of our other suppliers to perform such contracts in accordance with their original terms, and notices of breach of contract, as of the date of this annual report, some of these long-term polysilicon suppliers have agreed to supply us with polysilicon at prices comparable to spot market prices under tentative arrangements and on a monthly or quarterly basis. Others of these suppliers continue to have active discussions with us. Although we continue to negotiate with these suppliers on amending the original pricing and supply terms under these contracts, our negotiation efforts may not be successful and these suppliers may require us to perform our obligations pursuant to the contracts’ original terms and conditions. For example, some of these other suppliers have sent us invoices or demand letters for failing to perform certain obligations under these long-term supply contracts. We are in discussion with these suppliers to find an amicable solution to resolve the issues under the long-term supply contracts. In addition, certain suppliers may bring lawsuits against us for damages they may have suffered from our failure to perform these contracts. If we are required to perform these long-term supply contracts according to their original pricing terms, or are ordered to pay substantial amounts of damages to these suppliers, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for a substantial majority of our polysilicon could prevent us from delivering our products in a timely manner to our customers in the required quantities, which could result in cancellations of orders, decreased revenue and loss of market share. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, our five largest suppliers in the aggregate supplied approximately 86.6%, 83.4% and 80.3%, respectively, of our total polysilicon purchases. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these or our other suppliers, we may not be able to manufacture our products, our products may only be available at a higher cost or after a long delay, or we could be prevented from delivering our products to our customers in the required quantities, at competitive prices and on acceptable terms of delivery. Problems of this kind could cause us to experience cancellations of our orders, decreased revenue and loss of our market share. In general, the failure of a supplier to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner due to lack of supplies or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture our products or could increase our costs, particularly if we are unable to obtain these materials and components from alternative sources in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. Some of our suppliers have a limited operating history and limited financial resources, and some contracts which we have entered into with these suppliers do not clearly provide for remedies to us in the event any of these suppliers is not able to, or otherwise does not, deliver to us, in a timely manner or at all, any materials that it is contractually obligated to deliver. Although we may resume the in-house production of polysilicon through cooperation with third parties in order to utilize the remaining equipment of Fine Silicon Co., Ltd., or Fine Silicon, we can not assure you that such cooperation will happen or be successful, or that such cooperation could result in any meaningful in-house production of polysilicon at costs comparable to or lower than prevailing market prices. See “—We may not be able to resume our in-house production of polysilicon as cost-effectively as we had expected, or at all” below. As a result, we expect to continue to rely on third-party polysilicon suppliers for a significant portion of our polysilicon needs. Accordingly, any disruption in their supplies of polysilicon to us may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, due to a shortage of raw materials for producing PV modules, increased market demand for polysilicon raw materials, the failure by some polysilicon suppliers to achieve expected production volumes and certain other factors, a few of our polysilicon suppliers failed to perform fully their commitments to us under our polysilicon supply contracts, and consequently we did not receive from these suppliers a portion of the quantities of polysilicon raw materials that had been agreed upon in those contracts. While we were able to replace such expected deliveries of polysilicon through purchases from the spot market and new supply contracts, we cannot assure you that any future failure of our suppliers to deliver agreed quantities of polysilicon will be substantially replaced in a timely manner, or at all, or that the prices of such purchases or the terms of such contracts will be favorable to us. Our failure to obtain polysilicon in sufficient quantities, of appropriate quality and in a timely manner, could disrupt our operations and reduce and limit the growth of our manufacturing output and revenue. Polysilicon is the most important raw material used in the production of our PV products. To maintain competitive manufacturing operations, we depend on our suppliers’ timely deliveries of polysilicon in sufficient quantities and of appropriate quality. Until the third quarter of 2008, there had been an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon. As a result, historically we faced the prospects of a polysilicon shortage and late or failed delivery of polysilicon from suppliers. In the future we may experience actual shortages, or late or failed deliveries, of polysilicon for various reasons. Our failure to obtain the amounts and quality of polysilicon we need, on time and at affordable prices, could seriously hamper our ability to meet our contractual obligations to deliver PV products to our customers. Any failure by us to meet such obligations could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation, retention of customers, market share, business and results of operations, and may subject us to claims from our customers and cause other disputes. In addition, our failure to obtain sufficient amounts of polysilicon of the appropriate quality could result in underutilization of our existing and new production facilities, an increase in our marginal production costs, and may prevent us from implementing future capacity expansion plans, if any. Any of the above events could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Volatility in polysilicon prices may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Until the third quarter of 2008, there had been an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon, primarily due to growing demand for PV products and limited supply of polysilicon, which resulted in increasing prices of polysilicon under both long-term supply contracts and on the spot market. From the fourth quarter of 2008 until the second quarter of 2009, as a result of increased industry-wide polysilicon manufacturing capacity and a decrease in demand for polysilicon due to the global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, polysilicon prices decreased significantly. Although polysilicon prices rebounded between the third quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011 due in part to stronger demand for PV products in certain markets, polysilicon prices again decreased significantly since the second quarter of 2011 as a result of increased polysilicon manufacturing capacity and downward price pressure exerted by lower average selling prices for PV modules. In 2012, polysilicon prices continued to decline and reached a record low of approximately US$14 per kilogram in November 2012. Since June 2013, polysilicon prices have begun to increase and increased steadily until the first half of 2014. From the second half of 2014, polysilicon prices have slightly decreased and the spot market price reached below US$20 per kilogram as of the date of this annual report. 13 Table of Contents In 2012, the Ministry of Commerce of the People’s Republic of China, or MOFCOM, initiated anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations into imports of solar-grade polysilicon originating from the United States, South Korea and the European Union. On January 20, 2014, MOFCOM issued its final determination to impose anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties for five years on imports of solar-grade polysilicon originating from the United States and South Korea at aggregated rates ranging from 2.4% to 59.1%. On January 24, 2014, MOFCOM issued a preliminary ruling that imports of solar-grade polysilicon originating from the European Union had been subsidized at a rate of 10.7% and were sold at dumping price margins from 21.8% to 68.9%. On March 20, 2014, MOFCOM announced that it had accepted an undertaking proposal submitted by Wacker Chemie AG, an EU-based supplier of solar-grade polysilicon. According to Wacker, this undertaking agreement will be effective from May 1, 2014 until the end of April 2016. The undertaking agreement specifies that MOFCOM will refrain from applying anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on Wacker’s products in exchange for Wacker’s undertaking that it will not sell polysilicon produced at its European plants below a specific minimum price in China. Polysilicon is one of the major raw materials we need for the production of wafers, which also affects the production of PV cells and modules. A large portion of the polysilicon we use is sourced from countries that are subject to the investigations mentioned above. Therefore, any such anti-dumping or anti-subsidy duties (whether provisional or final) imposed by MOFCOM may increase our cost to produce solar modules. Due in part to China’s anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations into polysilicon manufacturers from the United States, the European Union and South Korea, together with an overall increase in demand, polysilicon prices have increased since June 2013. From the second half of 2014, polysilicon prices have slightly decreased and the spot market price reached below US$20 per kilogram as of the date of this annual report. There can be no assurance that polysilicon prices in the future will not increase significantly. To the extent that we are not able to pass on any increased costs to our customers, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors, and our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We depend, and expect to continue to depend, on a limited number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenues. The loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers would significantly reduce our revenues and harm our results of operations. In addition, a significant portion of our outstanding accounts receivable is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. Failure of any of these customers to meet their payment obligations would materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. We currently expect that our results of operations will, for the foreseeable future, continue to depend on sales of our PV modules to a relatively small number of customers until we become successful in significantly expanding our customer base or diversifying our product offerings. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 26.0%, 15.2% and 13.9% of our net revenues respectively. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate significant revenues from these customers or that we will be able to maintain these customer relationships. In addition, our business and continued sales depend on the ability of our major customers to compete effectively and sell their products in the market. Any decline in our customers’ businesses could reduce their purchases of our products. The loss of any sales in respect of these customers also could have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations. In addition, a significant portion of our outstanding accounts receivable derive from sales to a limited number of customers. As of December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, our five largest accounts receivable balances outstanding (net of provisions) accounted for approximately 24.2%, 20.1% and 27.2%, respectively, of our total outstanding accounts receivable. We are exposed to the credit risks of these customers, some of which are new customers with whom we have not historically had extensive business dealings. Any failure by these customers to meet their payment obligations to us would materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. We face intense competition in the PV modules and PV system markets. Our PV products compete with different types of solar power systems, as well as with other sources of renewable energy in the alternative energy market. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or future competitors would have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations. The PV market is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. The number of PV product manufacturers has rapidly increased due to growth in actual and forecasted demand for PV products and relatively low barriers to entry. If we fail to attract and retain customers in our target markets for our current and future core products, namely PV modules and PV systems, we will not be able to increase our revenues and market share. 14 Table of Contents We compete with both local and international producers of solar products, including the solar energy divisions of large conglomerates such as Sharp Corporation, PV module manufacturers such as SunPower Corporation, thin film solar module manufacturers such as First Solar, Inc. and integrated PV product manufacturers such as SolarWorld AG, Renewable Energy Corporation and Trina Solar Limited. Unlike other companies based overseas, the Company is located in China, where PV remains a policy-driven market. The introduction, modification or phasing-out of national support schemes will heavily impact the development of the PV market and related industries, and also could significantly influence the Company’s operations. Furthermore, the entire PV industry also faces competition from providers of energy from conventional and non-solar renewable sources. Many of our existing and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors also have better brand name recognition, more established distribution networks, larger bases of customers, or more in-depth knowledge of certain important and target markets. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products and respond more quickly than we can to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or future competitors would have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations. We may not be able to establish a successful solar project development and operations business on a large scale and on a timely basis, or at all. We started our solar project development and operations business in China in 2012 and plan on leveraging our experiences with PV system installation to build up rapidly our capacity to develop PV projects. We intend to sell the PV projects we develop after their completion and will continue to do so in the near future. If appropriate market conditions arise in the future, however, we will also consider operating the PV projects that we have developed. In 2012, we started an initial solar project development and operations business on a small scale in China and plan on leveraging our experiences with PV system installation to build up rapidly our capacity to develop and operate PV projects. The solar project business involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. We do not have a long track record of, or substantial prior experience with, solar project development and operations. Our expansion into this business area is faced with significant challenges. Developing and operating solar projects requires significant upfront investments in land use rights and power grid connection rights, preliminary engineering, permitting, legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible from an economic, technological or other perspective. There generally are many months or even years between the time when significant initial upfront investments are made in solar projects, and the time when those projects begin to generate revenue. Such delays between upfront investments and generating revenue may adversely affect our cash flow, our other businesses and our overall results of operations. In addition, we will need to rely on long-term financing, including equity and debt financing, to fund this solar projects business. We may not be able to obtain necessary financing in sufficient amounts, on favorable terms or in a timely manner, if at all. Solar projects require certain conditions of sunlight and solar energy that can only be found in a limited number of geographic regions. We may not be able to identify suitable sites in a timely manner or at all. Even if we do identify suitable sites, our ability to obtain requisite land use rights in respect of a site is subject to growing competition from other solar power producers that may have better access to local government support, financial or other resources. If we are unable to identify suitable sites or obtain land use rights for such sites, our ability to develop new solar projects on a timely basis, if at all, will be significantly and adversely affected. Solar projects often are awarded through competitive bidding processes. It is difficult to predict whether and when we will be awarded a new solar project. These bidding and selection processes generally are affected by a number of factors, including factors beyond our control, such as market conditions or government incentive programs. Any increase in competition during the bidding process could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to secure solar projects and to satisfy the financial terms and conditions of those projects. In addition to risks and uncertainties generally applicable to all other project development and operation businesses, we face many risks and uncertainties specific to solar projects that relate to our abilities to, among other things, negotiate satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements; obtain required land use rights and construction permits and approvals; obtain rights to connect the project to the power grid or to transmit the electricity which it generates; pay grid connection and other deposits, some of which are non-refundable; make arrangements to finance the purchase of electricity generated by our project; purchase and install appropriate equipment in a timely manner and on favorable terms; implement and complete the construction in a timely manner; handle potential challenges from project stakeholders, such as local residents, environmental organizations, and others who may not support the project; and address unforeseen engineering problems. 15 Table of Contents The development and operation of solar projects also may be adversely affected by many other factors outside of our control, such as inclement weather, acts of God, delays in regulatory approvals or in third parties’ delivery of equipment or other materials. Shortages of skilled labor also could significantly delay a project or otherwise increase our costs. Changes in project plans or defective execution of those plans may increase our costs and reduce our margins. The solar project business also may significantly divert our resources and the attention of our management, which may affect the performance of our other business segments. If we fail to address the above risks and uncertainties, our ability to establish a large-scale solar project development and operation business in a timely manner will be harmed, and our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We have breached in the past, and we may again breach in the future, certain restrictive covenants of our loan agreements, which may result in lenders accelerating repayment of the affected loans and may trigger cross-default provisions of other loans and borrowings and, as a result, could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our creditworthiness to borrow or obtain other bank loans in the future. Our loan agreements with commercial banks in China generally contain restrictive covenants, some of which require us to maintain certain financial ratios, such as debt-to-asset ratios and coverage ratios. Other restrictive covenants in our loan agreements require us to obtain written consents from the commercial banks before we conclude certain transactions, such as providing guarantees to third parties or disposing of material assets. These covenants could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs in a timely manner and we may have to curtail some of our operations and growth plans to comply with these covenants. In addition, any global or regional economic deterioration, or adverse changes in the solar industry, may cause us to incur significant losses or force us to assume considerable liabilities, which would adversely impact our ability to comply with the covenants of our outstanding loans. Such breach may constitute an event of default, and if the relevant creditors do not grant us a waiver for any breach of a covenant, the breach may trigger an acceleration of the amounts due under the relevant loan agreements. Some of our loan agreements also contain cross-default provisions enabling creditors under such loan agreements to declare an event of default and/or accelerate repayment when there is an event of default under the terms of another debt instrument. If a covenant under another loan is breached, these cross-default provisions may be triggered if a waiver of the breach cannot be obtained in a timely manner. We had been in breach of certain financial covenants, such as debt-to-asset ratios, under certain of our loan agreements with commercial banks in China, which would have triggered cross-default provisions under certain other relevant loan agreements. As of the date of this annual report, we have obtained written waivers from all of the relevant banks with respect to the loan agreements affected, waiving such past breaches and/or cross-defaults. In addition, while we have been in compliance with the financial covenants under all of our other loan agreements, our continued compliance depends upon our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to continue to comply with such financial covenants in the future. In the event of a future breach, we may not be able to cure the breach or to obtain a waiver on a timely basis or at all, which could result in an event of default. An event of default under any agreement governing our existing or future debt, if not cured by us or otherwise waived by our creditors, could result in an acceleration of the repayment of all or a portion of the outstanding loan amount. If we were required to repay all or a significant portion of the affected loans, we may not have sufficient financial resources to do so, which would materially and adversely affect our liquidity position. Moreover, it also is possible that our failure to comply with restrictive covenants in existing loan agreements may materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain additional loans from commercial banks in the future. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and business prospects. 16 Table of Contents Existing regulations and policies governing the electric utility industry, as well as changes to these regulations and policies, may adversely affect demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. The electric utility industry is subject to extensive regulation, and the market for PV products is heavily influenced by these regulations as well as the policies promulgated relating to electric utilities. These regulations and policies often affect electricity pricing and technical connections of end-user power generators to power grids. As the market for solar and other alternative, renewable energy sources continues to evolve, these regulations and policies are subject to change and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, solar and other alternative energy sources may be significantly affected by these regulations and policies, which potentially could significantly reduce demand for our products and materially reduce our revenue and profits. Moreover, we expect that our PV products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with international, national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility power grid connections and metering and related matters in various countries and regions. We also have to comply with the requirements of individual localities, and design equipment to comply with different standards applicable in the various jurisdictions where we conduct our business. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our PV products may result in significant additional expenses to us, our distributors and our end users. Accordingly, such new regulations or policies could cause a significant reduction in demand for our PV products, as well as materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Advance payment arrangements between us and some of our polysilicon suppliers and many of our equipment suppliers expose us to the credit risks of such suppliers and may increase our costs and expenses, which could in turn have a material and adverse effect on our liquidity. We made advance payments to some of our polysilicon suppliers under long-term supply contracts we signed with them. As of December 31, 2014, we had long-term prepayment balances for polysilicon totaling RMB721.7 million (US$116.3 million) under such long-term contracts. We currently are renegotiating with some of our polysilicon suppliers on the purchase price of a substantial amount of polysilicon to be supplied under certain of these long-term contracts. See “—Our polysilicon costs may be higher than those of other market players due to our long-term commitment to purchase polysilicon at fixed prices, and we have failed to perform certain of our obligations under these long-term polysilicon supply contracts according to their original terms” above. If we fail to reach agreements with such suppliers on the quantities and prices of polysilicon to be supplied under those contracts, the suppliers may hold the advance payment and issue claims for further damages. In addition, under existing contracts with many of our equipment suppliers, consistent with industry practice, we make advance payments to our suppliers prior to the scheduled dates on which certain equipment will be delivered. In many such cases, we make advance payments without receiving collateral for such payments. As a result, our claims in respect of such payments would rank as unsecured claims, which in turn would expose us to the credit risks of our suppliers in the event of their bankruptcy or insolvency. Under such circumstances, our claims against defaulting suppliers would rank below those of secured creditors, which would undermine our chances of recovering advance payments for which we did not receive any value. Accordingly, any of the above scenarios may have a material and adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth strategy requires substantial capital expenditures, significant engineering efforts, timely delivery of manufacturing equipment, dedicated attention of management, and recruiting and training new employees. Our failure to complete our future expansion plans or otherwise effectively manage our growth could have a material and adverse effect on the growth of our sales and earnings. Our future success depends in part on our ability to expand our manufacturing capacity to meet market demand for our products promptly and in a cost-efficient manner. If we are not able to do so, we will not be able to attain the desired level of economies of scale in our operations or lower our marginal production costs to the level necessary to maintain effectively our pricing and other competitive advantages. In 2014, our total annual PV module shipment reached the equivalent of 3,361.3 megawatts. As of the date of this annual report, attributed to our efforts in continuous technological innovations at all levels of our operation and progressive equipment upgrades, we believe that our actual annual manufacturing capacity can reach a maximum of 3,000 megawatts for ingots and wafers, 3,200 megawatts for PV cells and 4,000 megawatts for PV modules. Our growth strategy has required and may continue to require substantial capital expenditures, significant engineering efforts, timely delivery of manufacturing equipment, dedicated attention of management and the recruitment and training of new employees. Our growth strategy therefore is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: 17 Table of Contents · we may need to continue to contribute significant additional capital to our subsidiaries through the issuance of equity or debt securities or by entering into new credit facilities or other arrangements in order to finance the costs of developing new manufacturing facilities, which may not be conducted on reasonable terms or at all, and which could be dilutive to our existing shareholders; such capital contributions, if contributed from outside the PRC, also require PRC regulatory approvals in order for such funds to be transferred to our subsidiaries within the PRC, which approvals may not be granted in a timely manner, or at all; · we will be required to obtain governmental approvals, permits or documents of a similar nature with respect to any new expansion projects, but it is uncertain whether such approvals, permits or documents will be obtained in a timely manner, or at all; · we may experience cost overruns, construction delays, equipment problems, including delays in deliveries of manufacturing equipment or deliveries of equipment that is damaged or does not meet our specifications, and other operating difficulties; · we are using, and expect to continue to use, new equipment and technology to lower our unit capital and operating costs, but we cannot assure you that such efforts will be successful; and · we may not have sufficient management resources to properly oversee future expansion of our manufacturing capacity. Any of these or similar difficulties could adversely affect our ability to manage the growth of our operations. Any significant delays or constraints to our future plans to expand our manufacturing capacity, if any, could limit our ability to increase sales, reduce marginal manufacturing costs or otherwise improve our prospects and profitability. In addition, we may have over-capacity as a result of expanding our future manufacturing capacity if we do not sufficiently increase our sales. We may undertake acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, which may have a material and adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, and such undertakings may be unsuccessful. Our strategy includes plans to grow both organically and through acquisitions, participation in joint ventures, and other strategic alliances with suppliers or other companies in China and overseas along the PV industry value chain. Acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and other strategic alliances may expose us to new operational, regulatory, market and geographical risks as well as risks associated with additional capital requirements, including: · our inability to integrate new businesses, operations, personnel, products, services and technologies; · unforeseen or hidden liabilities, including exposure to administrative or legal proceedings associated with newly acquired companies; · the diversion of resources from our existing businesses; · disagreements with joint venture or strategic alliance partners; · contravention of regulations governing cross-border investment; · failure to comply with laws and regulations as well as industry or technical standards of the overseas markets into which we expand; · our inability to generate revenues sufficient to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions, strategic investments, joint venture formations or other strategic alliances; · our inability to achieve the intended cost efficiency, level of profitability or other intended strategic goals for the acquisitions, strategic investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances; and · potential loss of, or harm to, employees or customer relationships. Any of these events could disrupt our ability to manage our business, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Such risks also could result in our failure to generate the intended benefits of the acquisitions, strategic investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances and we may be unable to recover our investment in such initiatives. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to resume our in-house production of polysilicon as cost-effectively as we had expected, or at all. Fine Silicon, our wholly owned subsidiary for producing polysilicon, started trial production in late 2009 and was initially expected to reach its full production capacity of 3,000 tons of polysilicon per year. However, as market prices for polysilicon have decreased sharply in recent years, Fine Silicon’s designed production capacity was no longer cost-effective. Currently, Fine Silicon is not manufacturing any meaningful amount of polysilicon. We recorded a non-cash impairment of the long-lived assets of Fine Silicon in amounts of RMB2,275.0 million and RMB200.5 million for 2011 and 2012, respectively, which in the aggregate was equivalent to our writing-down the total value of Fine Silicon’s equipment. In April 2015, Fine Silicon also sold its land use rights to the land underlying its manufacturing facilities as well as the attachments thereon to a government entity in Baoding. Although we still may resume the in-house production of polysilicon through cooperation with third parties in order to utilize the remaining equipment of Fine Silicon, we can not assure you that such cooperation will happen or be successful, or that such cooperation could result in any meaningful in-house production of polysilicon at costs comparable to or lower than prevailing market prices. If we fail to do so, we will not be able to realize the expected positive effect on our results of operations, and the cost of our polysilicon supply will remain uncertain and vulnerable to market fluctuations. Ingot production is energy intensive and if our energy costs rise or if our energy supplies are disrupted, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The ingot production process is highly dependent on a constant supply of electricity to maintain the optimal conditions for production. If these levels are not maintained, we may experience significant delays in the production of ingots. With the rapid development of the Chinese economy, demand for electricity has continued to increase. There have been shortages in electricity supply in various regions across China, especially during peak seasons such as summer. In the event that electricity and other energy supplies to our manufacturing facilities are disrupted, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition to shortages, we are vulnerable to potential interruptions in our energy supply due to equipment failure, weather events or other causes. There can be no assurance that we will not face power-related problems in the future. Even if we had access to reliable electricity sources, since our manufacturing processes consume substantial amounts of electricity, any significant increase in the price we pay for electricity could adversely affect our profitability. If electricity and other energy costs were to increase, our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity position could be materially and adversely affected. If PV technology is not suitable for widespread adoption, or sufficient demand for PV products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipated, our sales may not continue to increase or may even decline, and we may not be able to sustain profitability. The PV market is in the relatively early stages of its development and the extent to which PV products will be widely adopted is uncertain. The PV industry also may be particularly susceptible to economic downturns. Market data for the PV industry are not as readily available as data in other more established industries, where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. If PV technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption, or if demand for PV products fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to grow our business or generate sufficient revenues to sustain our profitability. In addition, demand for PV products in our targeted markets, including China, may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we had anticipated. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and demand for PV products, including (i) cost-effectiveness of PV products as compared with conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; (ii) performance and reliability of PV products as compared with conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; (iii) availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the PV industry; (iv) success of other alternative energy generation technologies, such as fuel cells, wind power and biomass; (v) fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels; (vi) capital expenditures by end users of PV products, which tend to decrease when the economy slows down; and (vii) deregulation of the electric utility industry and broader energy industry. Fluctuations in exchange rates in the past have adversely affected, and in the future may continue to adversely affect, our results of operations. Currently most of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, Renminbi, Japanse Yen and Euros, while a substantial portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, Euros and U.S. dollars. In addition, we must constantly convert one currency into another in order to make payments. Therefore, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a significant effect on our results of operations due to mismatches among various foreign currency-denominated transactions, including sales of PV modules in overseas markets and purchases of silicon raw materials and equipment in China, and the gap in time between the signing of related contracts and receipts of cash and disbursements related to those contracts. In 2014, we recognized a net foreign currency exchange loss of RMB243.4 million (US$39.2 million) due primarily to the depreciation of the Euro against the Renminbi. We have entered into hedging and foreign currency forward arrangements to limit our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. However, we will continue to be exposed to foreign currency exchange risk to the extent that our hedging and foreign currency forward arrangements do not cover all of our expected revenues denominated in foreign currencies. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our foreign currency exchange gains or losses in the future. We may continue to reduce the effect of such exposure through hedging or other similar arrangements. However, due to the limited availability of such hedging instruments in China, we cannot assure you that we always will find a hedging arrangement suitable for us, or that such derivatives will be effective in managing our foreign exchange risk, if at all. 19 Table of Contents In addition, the Renminbi is the functional currency for our PRC subsidiaries. Sales generated by our PRC subsidiaries which are denominated in foreign currencies need to be translated into Renminbi when they are recorded as our revenues. Therefore, any depreciation in the foreign currencies in which our sales are denominated, such as the Euro, Japanse Yen and the U.S. dollar, against the Renminbi will cause our reported revenues to appear lower than they otherwise would. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, the depreciation of the Euro and the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi adversely affected our total net revenues, as a majority of our PV module shipments were delivered under Euro and U.S. dollar-denominated contracts. Any further depreciation in foreign currencies in which our sales are denominated against the Renminbi will continue to materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our product development initiatives and other research and development efforts may fail to improve manufacturing efficiency or yield commercially viable new products. We are making efforts to improve our manufacturing processes and to improve the quality of our PV products. We believe that the efficient use of polysilicon is essential to reducing our manufacturing costs. We have been exploring several measures to enhance the efficient use of polysilicon in our manufacturing processes, including reducing the thickness of silicon wafers. However, the use of thinner silicon wafers may have unforeseen negative consequences, such as increased breakage and reduced reliability and conversion efficiency of our PV cells and modules. As a result, reducing the thickness of silicon wafers may not lead to the cost reductions we expect to achieve, while at the same time it may reduce customer satisfaction with our products, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on our customer relationships, reputation and results of operations. We also are exploring ways to improve our PV module products. Additional research and development efforts will be needed before our products in development may be manufactured and sold at a commercially viable level. We cannot assure you that such efforts will improve the efficiency of manufacturing processes or yield new products that are commercially viable. In addition, any failure to realize the intended benefits of our product development initiatives could limit our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the industry, which in turn would hurt our business and prospects. For example, in order to meet increasing demand for our products and further drive down costs through increased cell conversion efficiency and manufacturing on a larger scale, we started to implement Project PANDA, a research and development project for next-generation high efficiency monocrystalline PV cells, in June 2009. By the end of 2014, we achieved an average cell conversion efficiency rate of 19.8% on the PANDA commercial production lines and a record cell conversion efficiency rate of 21.2% on the PANDA trial line. However, as we are new to monocrystalline technology, we may not be able to overcome all of the technical challenges involved in the process of commercializing new technologies developed from Project PANDA. We also may not be able to maintain or further improve the cell conversion efficiency rate that we have already achieved. In addition, we have limited experience with customer demands in the monocrystalline PV market and may not be able to adapt to the conditions in this market. Established and more experienced competitors in the monocrystalline PV market may possess superior technology and have brand names that are better known than ours. If we fail to continue commercializing our monocrystalline PV technology successfully, or are unable to operate competitively in the monocrystalline market, we may not be able to recover the cost of our investments, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period. Our results of operations are subject to many factors beyond our control, which include, among others, changes in costs of raw materials, delays in equipment delivery, suppliers’ failure to perform their delivery obligations, cancellation or delay of customers’ orders, interruptions in supplies of utilities and other key production inputs, general economic conditions and changes in government policies or incentive schemes, and uncertainties relating to, or accounting changes caused by, any of these factors. Any one, or a combination, of these factors may cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly from period to period or to deviate from the expectations of the investment community or our own projections. As a result, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results or projections as an indication of our future performance. There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. In the past we have relied primarily on borrowings from commercial banks to fund a significant portion of our capital expenditures and working capital needs, and we expect to continue doing so in the future. Substantial doubt exists as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We have also incurred significant net losses in recent years. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, our net loss was RMB 3.2 billion, RMB 2.1 billion, and RMB 1.4 billion (US$ 225.8 million), respectively. As of December 31, 2014, we had a total deficit attributable to the Company of RMB 217.4 million (US$35.0 million) and a deficit in working capital of RMB 6.7 billion (US$ 1.1 billion). As of December 31, 2014, we had cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of RMB 2.4 billion (US$ 387.0 million) and short-term borrowings, including the current portion of medium-term notes described below and long-term debt, of RMB 10.1 billion (US$1.6 billion). See Item 5.B. “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and Going Concern.” The medium-term notes were issued by our two major manufacturing subsidiaries, Yingli Energy (China) Co., Ltd. (“Yingli China”) and Baoding Tianwei Yingli New Energy Resources Co., Ltd. (“Tianwei Yingli”). Yingli China had RMB denominated unsecured three-year medium-term notes of RMB 1.2 billion which matured on May 3, 2015, and had paid the principal and all interest thereon in full before their due date. Tianwei Yingli has RMB denominated unsecured five-year medium-term notes of RMB 1.0 billion in principal with RMB 60 million in interest becoming due and payable on October 13, 2015. Our substantial indebtedness and net loss may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to meet our payment obligations. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our continued operations, which in turn is dependent upon our ability to meet our financial requirements, raise additional capital, and the success of our future operations, which in turn are subject to various risks discussed herein including, among others, risks relating to economic conditions in our target markets as well as the supply and prices of PV modules in the market, our ability to obtain additional capital or other funding to meet our payment obligations under our debt instruments, our ability to renew our short-term borrowings when they mature, our ability to restructure some of our existing debts if needed, the ability of guarantors of our debt to maintain their financial condition, and our ability to comply with all covenants of our loan agreements or obtain waivers if needed. The audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 20-F were prepared on the basis of a going concern. Facts and circumstances including recurring losses, negative working capital, net cash outflows, and uncertainties as to the repayment of debts raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The audited financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. If we become unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets, and the values we receive for our assets in liquidation or dissolution could be significantly lower than the values reflected in our audited consolidated financial statements. Our lack of cash resources and our potential inability to continue as a going concern may materially and adversely affect the price of our ADSs and our ability to raise new capital or continue our operations. 20 Table of Contents Failure to achieve satisfactory output of our PV modules and PV systems could result in a decline in sales. The manufacture of PV modules and PV systems is a highly complex process. Disruptions or deviations in one or more components of the manufacturing process can cause a substantial decrease in output and, in some cases, disrupt production significantly or result in no output. Historically, we from time to time experienced lower-than-anticipated manufacturing output during the ramp-up period of our production lines. This often occurred during the production of new products, the installation of new equipment or the implementation of new process technologies. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2012, due to challenging conditions in the solar market and a continuing decline in average selling prices of PV modules, we recognized an impairment of long-lived assets of Fine Silicon in an amount of RMB200.5 million and a loss of RMB61.7 million related to disposal of certain equipment. These non-cash charges significantly and adversely affected our results of operations in the fourth quarter and for the full year 2012. As we bring additional lines or facilities into production, we may operate at less than optimal capacity during the ramp-up period and produce less output than expected. This would result in higher marginal production costs which could have a material and adverse effect on our profitability. Unsatisfactory performance of or defects in our products may cause us to incur additional warranty expenses, damage our reputation and cause our sales to decline. Before September 30, 2011, our PV modules typically were sold with a two- or five-year limited warranty for defects in materials and workmanship, and a 10-year and 25-year warranty guaranteeing 90% and 80% of initial power generation capacity, respectively. Starting from October 1, 2011, we implemented a new and improved warranty term that guarantees 91.2% of nominal power output for 10 years, and 80.7% of nominal power output for 25 years for multicrystalline PV modules and 98.0% of nominal power output for the first year, 92.0% of nominal power output for 10 years, and 82.0% of nominal power output for 25 years for monocrystalline Panda PV modules. From September 1, 2014, we updated our warranty term that guarantees 91.2% of nominal power for 10 years, and 80.7% of nominal power output for 25 years for multicrystalline PV modules and 98.0% of nominal power output for the first year, 92.2% of nominal power output for 10 years, and 82.4% of nominal power output for 25 years for monocrystalline Panda PV modules. In addition, we also provided our multicrystalline PV modules and monocrystalline Panda PV modules with a linear-based warranty that guarantees each year’s power output during the twenty-five-year warranty period. In 2012, we entered into a module performance warranty insurance agreement with Munich Re’s specialty primary insurers. According to the agreement, both we and Munich Re could provide additional economic security for large-scale commercial and utility project developers, investors and debt providers during the period from October 1, 2012 to September 30, 2013 in connection with our multicrystalline PV modules. In December 2013, we entered into a similar module performance warranty insurance agreement with another insurance company for the same scope of beneficiaries for 2014. Nevertheless, we bear the risk of warranty claims long after we have sold our products and recognized revenues. We have only sold PV modules since January 2003, and none of our PV modules has been in use for the entire duration of its warranty period. In connection with our sales of PV systems in the PRC, we provide a one- to five-year warranty against defects in our modules, storage batteries, controllers and inverters. As of December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, our accrued warranty costs amounted to RMB555.4 million, RMB666.9 million and RMB748.4 million (US$120.6 million), respectively. Moreover, because our products have only been in use for a relatively short period of time, our assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our products may not be accurate. Since our products have relatively long warranty periods, we cannot assure you that the amount of accrued warranty for our products will be adequate in light of our products’ actual performance. If we experience a significant increase in warranty claims, we may incur significant repair and replacement costs associated with such claims. Furthermore, widespread product underperformances or failures will damage our reputation and customer relationships and may cause our sales to decline, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters, acts of war, terrorism or other factors beyond our control may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, severe weather conditions or other catastrophic events may severely affect the regions where we, our suppliers or our customers operate. Such natural disasters also could cause a material economic downturn in the affected area or internationally. Although we have limited exposure to any catastrophic event, any future disaster in areas where we, our suppliers or our customers operate could have a material and adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, war, terrorist activity, or threats thereof, social unrest, as well as geopolitical tension and international conflict, for example, tensions within the Middle East and on the Korean Peninsula, and territorial disputes between China and other countries, could negatively affect international or regional economic development. This in turn could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be adequately prepared in terms of contingency planning or have capabilities sufficient to recover from a major incident or crisis. As a result, our operational continuity may be materially and adversely affected by any major crisis or incident. 21 Table of Contents We have limited insurance coverage and may incur uncoverable losses resulting from business interruption or natural disasters. Our insurance coverage is limited and we do not maintain any business interruption insurance coverage. As a result, we may have to use our own funds to pay for financial and other losses, damages and liabilities, including those in connection with or resulting from natural disasters and other events beyond our control, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We obtain some of the equipment used in our manufacturing process from a small number of selected suppliers. If our equipment is damaged or new or replacement equipment is not delivered to us in a timely manner or is otherwise unavailable, our ability to deliver products timely will suffer, which in turn could result in cancellations of orders and loss of revenue for us. Some of the equipment used in our production of polysilicon ingots, wafers, PV cells and PV modules, such as ingot casting furnaces, diffusion furnaces and wire saws, have been customized to our specifications and are not readily available from multiple vendors. Such equipment would be difficult to repair or replace. There also are limited sources of supply for the principal polysilicon manufacturing equipment we use and we may not be able to replace such sources at reasonable costs and on a timely basis, or at all. If any of our key equipment suppliers were to experience financial difficulties or to go out of business, we may have difficulties with repairing or replacing our key equipment in the event of any damage to or a breakdown of such equipment. Furthermore, new or replacement equipment may not be delivered to us in a timely manner. In such cases, our ability to deliver products in a timely manner would suffer, which in turn could result in cancellations of orders from our customers and loss of revenue for us. In addition, the equipment we may need for our future expansion may be in high demand. A supplier’s failure to deliver equipment to us in a timely manner, in sufficient quantity and on terms acceptable to us could delay expansion of our capacity and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our production costs. If certain customers were to cease their practice of making advance payments when they place orders with us, or if our customers were to fail to meet their payment obligations, we may experience increased needs to finance our working capital requirements and may be exposed to increased credit risk, which may materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We require many of our customers to make an advance payment representing a small percentage of their orders, which is a business practice that help us manage our accounts receivable, prepay our suppliers and reduce the amount of funds that we need to finance our working capital requirements. We cannot assure you that in the future our customers will not cease adhering to this practice . If our customers were to cease making prepayments to us at the time of their orders, we may not be able to secure additional financing on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Currently, a significant portion of our revenue derive from credit sales to our customers, generally with payments due within four months after shipment. As a result, any future decrease in the use of cash advance payments by our customers may negatively impact our short-term liquidity and, coupled with increased credit sales to a small number of major customers, may expose us to additional and more concentrated credit risk. This is because a significant portion of our outstanding accounts receivable derives from sales to a limited number of customers. As of December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, our five largest accounts receivable balances outstanding accounted for approximately 24.2%, 20.1% and 27.2%, respectively, of our total outstanding accounts receivable. The failure of any of these or other customers to meet their payment obligations would materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. For example, as a result of certain customers’ prolonged failure to settle accounts receivable and the continuing deterioration of their financial condition and creditworthiness, we made a total provision of RMB169.4 million (US$27.3 million) in 2014 for the doubtful accounts receivable related to these customers. Besides, from time to time we may need to commence legal proceedings in order to recover accounts receivables from customers, which also may increase our cost. Although we have been able to maintain adequate working capital primarily through short-term borrowing, our prior convertible senior notes offering, follow-on offering and medium-term notes offering, other debt issuances and long-term bank borrowings, any failure by our customers to settle outstanding accounts receivable in the future could materially and adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We have issued, and may issue in the future, equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our ordinary shares, the conversion of which may cause our existing shareholders to incur further dilution of their holdings. We have issued, and may issue in the future, equity securities or securities convertible into our ordinary shares. In the event that the securities convertible into our ordinary shares are converted, our existing shareholders may incur further dilution of their holdings. For example, in January 2009, we issued an aggregate amount of US$49.4 million of senior secured convertible notes due 2012, or senior secured convertible notes, to Trustbridge Partners II, L.P., or Trustbridge, or its affiliates in connection with our acquisition of Cyber Power. From June 2009 to January 2012, we issued an aggregate of 11,588,713 ordinary shares to Trustbridge as a result of the conversion of the full amount of the senior secured convertible notes. In addition, in connection with a credit agreement between Yingli Energy (China) Company Ltd., or Yingli China, and a fund managed by Asia Debt Management Hong Kong Limited, or ADM Capital, entered into in January 2009, we issued an aggregate of 4,125,000 warrants to ADM Capital under the terms of a warrant agreement entered into in April 2009. From May 2010 to May 2011, a total of 2,454,271 ordinary shares in the form of ADSs were issued to ADM Capital in connection with its exercise of all 4,125,000 of these warrants. As of the date of this annual report, there are no convertible securities issued by our company that remain outstanding. Any future issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our equity securities may cause further dilution to our existing shareholders. If our future acquisitions, expansions, or market changes or other developments cause us to require additional funding, we may issue additional securities convertible into or exchangeable for our ordinary shares, and our existing shareholders could incur substantial dilution. Our principal shareholder has significant influence over our management and their interests may not be aligned with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. The family trust of Liansheng Miao, the chairperson of our board of directors and our chief executive officer, controls and beneficially owns 100% of the equity interests in Yingli Power. Yingli Power, in turn, currently beneficially owns approximately 28.75% of our ordinary shares outstanding. Yingli Power has significant influence over us, including on matters relating to mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of Yingli Power may conflict with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Baoding Tianwei Baobian Electric Co., Ltd., or Tianwei Baobian, and Baoding Tiawei Group Co., Ltd., or Tianwei Group, our joint venture partners as to Tianwei Yingli, have significant influence over Tianwei Yingli, one of our operating entities, and they may prevent Tianwei Yingli from taking actions that are in the best interests of us or Tianwei Yingli. In addition, each of Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group will have significant influence over us if it were to exercise its right to subscribe for ordinary shares of our company. The interests of Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group may not be aligned with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders. Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group, which are affiliated with each other, own in the aggregate a 25.99% equity interest in Tianwei Yingli, one of our operating entities. Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group have significant influence over Tianwei Yingli through their representation on Tianwei Yingli’s board of directors and through other rights which they enjoy pursuant to Tianwei Yingli’s articles of association and our joint venture contract with them. Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group are entitled to appoint jointly three of Tianwei Yingli’s nine directors. We, on the one hand, and Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group, on the other hand, may have different views and approaches with respect to the management and operation of Tianwei Yingli. Tianwei Baobian or Tianwei Group may disagree with us in the management and operation of Tianwei Yingli and may vote against actions that we believe are in the best interests of Tianwei Yingli or us. For example, directors appointed by Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group may vote against matters that require unanimous approval of all directors. Directors appointed by Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group also may hinder or delay the adoption of relevant resolutions by not attending a board meeting, thereby preventing achievement of a quorum and forcing the meeting to be postponed for no more than seven days. See “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company — Joint Venture Contract — Tianwei Yingli’s Management Structure and Board of Directors”. Due to the ability of each of Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group to exercise substantial influence over Tianwei Yingli through their appointed directors, and through their other rights under the joint venture contract, any significant deterioration of our relationship, or any disagreement with Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group may cause disruption to Tianwei Yingli’s business, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group also may have a disagreement or dispute with us with respect to our respective rights and obligations on matters such as the exercise of Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group’s right to subscribe for ordinary shares newly issued by us in exchange for their equity interest in Tianwei Yingli. Except in limited circumstances, we may not be able to terminate unilaterally the joint venture contract in the event of such disagreement or dispute even if such termination would be in our best interests. See “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company — Joint Venture Contract — Unilateral Termination of the Joint Venture Contract”. Any such dispute may result in costly and time-consuming litigation or other dispute resolution proceedings which may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management and disrupt our business operations. 23 Table of Contents Furthermore, Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group may transfer all or a part of their equity interest in Tianwei Yingli pursuant to the joint venture contract. If we fail to exercise our right of first refusal in accordance with the procedures set forth in the joint venture contract and are thus deemed to have consented to any such proposed transfer by Tianwei Baobian and/or Tianwei Group to a third party, or if Tianwei Baobian and/or Tianwei Group transfers its and/or their equity interests in Tianwei Yingli to its affiliates or a third party, such affiliate or third party will become a holder of Tianwei Yingli’s equity interest. The interests of such party may not be aligned with our interests or the interests of Tianwei Yingli. See “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company— Joint Venture Contract — Transfer of Equity Interests in Tianwei Yingli — Right of First Refusal”. In addition, according to the joint venture contract, Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group may exercise a subscription right in respect of our shares, and if they exercise such subscription right, they may become significant shareholders of our company. If they become our shareholders, they may have significant influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. If Tianwei Baobian and/or Tianwei Group become our shareholders, their interests may not be aligned with our interests or those of our other shareholders. Negative publicity, rumors or media coverage of Tianwei Group, Tianwei Baobian, our company, our affiliates or business partners could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business and financial condition. Since all of Tianwei Yingli’s equity interests are held together by us, Tianwei Group and Tianwei Baobian, negative rumors or media coverage of Tianwei Group or of Tianwei Baobian, whether or not accurate and whether or not applicable to us, could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation, business and financial condition. In addition, negative publicity of our company or our affiliates or business partners, whether or not accurate and whether or not applicable to us, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and financial condition. We cannot assure you that in the future there will not be negative rumors or media coverage related to Tianwei Group, Tianwei Baobian, our company, our affiliates or business partners. If Tianwei Baobian, Tianwei Group or any of their affiliates were to engage in sanctionable activities inconsistent with the laws or policies of other countries, our reputation and the reputation of Tianwei Yingli may be negatively affected. As a result, some of our shareholders may divest our shares and prospective investors may decide not to invest in our shares, which may cause the price of our ADSs to decline. The United States and other countries maintain economic and other sanctions against several countries, or the sanctioned countries, and persons engaged in specified activities, such as supporting terrorism or the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group are our joint venture partners with respect to one of our operating subsidiaries, Tianwei Yingli. Based on publicly available information, Tianwei Group was acquired by China South in March 2008, and Tianwei Group and China South collectively own 56.43% of the equity interests in Tianwei Baobian. 24 Table of Contents There have been news reports that China South, Tianwei Group and Tianwei Baobian in recent years have conducted construction activities in or exported transformers to certain countries, including Iran and Sudan, that were subject to ongoing sanctions, or sanctioned countries, at the time such construction activities were conducted or such transformers were exported. China North Industries Corporation, or Norinco, an affiliate of China South, was recognized by the U.S. State Department under the Iran Nonproliferation Act of 2000 as having been engaged in the transfer to Iran of equipment and technology having the potential to make a material contribution to the development of weapons of mass destruction. Norinco also was reported to have had activities in and exported products to some sanctioned countries, including Iran, Sudan and Syria, some of which activities and products involved or included military products and applications. In addition, Norinco is listed as a prohibited company by some state and municipal governments, universities and investors in the United States due to its business relationships with the sanctioned countries. Certain of the sanctioned countries in which China South, Tianwei Group, Tianwei Baobian or Norinco has been reported to have had activities, such as Iran, Syria and Sudan, are identified by the U.S. State Department as state sponsors of terrorism and are subject to U.S. economic sanctions and export controls. As a result of China South’s acquisition of Tianwei Group discussed above, Tianwei Yingli, our subsidiary, became an affiliate (as defined under the rules of the Exchange Act) of China South and Norinco. Neither our company nor any of our other subsidiaries is an affiliate of China South or Norinco. We have no control over Tianwei Baobian, Tianwei Group, China South, Norinco or their respective affiliated entities, nor has any such respective affiliated entity requested Tianwei Yingli or us to have contacts with or otherwise conduct any sanctioned activity in any sanctioned country. However, to the extent that such entities are involved in activities that, if performed by a U.S. person, would be illegal under U.S. sanctions, or if any such entity were to become subject to any economic sanctions maintained by the United States or other countries or entities, reputational issues may arise relating to Tianwei Yingli or us, and investor sentiment with respect to our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Although neither we nor any of our other subsidiaries is an affiliate of China South or Norinco, investors in the United States may believe that the value of their investment in us may be adversely affected due to Tianwei Yingli’s affiliation with such entities or due to our connection with such entities through Tianwei Yingli. Investors may choose not to invest in, or to divest from any investments in, issuers that are associated even indirectly with sanctioned activities or sanctioned countries. Any such negative investor sentiment as the result of reputational issues may cause the price of our ADSs to decline and materially and adversely affect the value of your investment in us. Our joint venture partner, Tianwei Group has defaulted on certain of its debt obligations and may again default on its debt obligations in the future. Tianwei Group could potentially become insolvent, subject to bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings, and controlled by its creditors. If Tianwei Group were controlled by its creditors, they could prevent Tianwei Yingli from taking actions in its or our best interests, and those creditors could cause Tianwei Group to subscribe for our ordinary shares and thereby exert significant influence over our company. The interests of Tianwei Group’s creditors may not be aligned with our interests or the interests of Tianwei Yingli’s other equity interest holder, Tianwei Baobian. Our joint venture partner, Tianwei Group has defaulted on certain of its debt obligations and it may again default on its debt obligations in the future. Based on publicly available information, in April 2015 Tianwei Group failed to pay approximately US$13.8 million in interest due on its bonds traded in China. If Tianwei Group continues to be unable to pay its debts as and when they become due, Tianwei Group could potentially become insolvent, subject to bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings, or controlled by its creditors. Under the joint venture contract entered into by and among Tianwei Baobian, Tianwei Group and us, Tianwei Group has significant influence over Tianwei Yingli, one of our principal operating entities. See “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company — Joint Venture Contract.” If Tianwei Group were controlled by its creditors, there would be uncertainty as to how Tianwei Group’s creditors would exercise their rights in respect of Tianwei Yingli. Tianwei Group’s creditors could prevent Tianwei Yingli from taking actions that are in the best interests of us or Tianwei Yingli. Pursuant to the joint venture contract, Tianwei Group’s creditors also could cause Tianwei Group to subscribe for ordinary shares in us and thereby exert significant influence over our company. The interests of Tianwei Group’s creditors may not be aligned with our interests or the interests of Tianwei Yingli. Due to the ability of Tianwei Group to exercise substantial influence over Tianwei Yingli through their appointed directors, and through their other rights under the joint venture contract, any significant deterioration of our relationship, or any disagreement, with Tianwei Group’s creditors may cause disruption to Tianwei Yingli’s business, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Any dispute with Tianwei Group’s creditors may result in costly and time-consuming litigation or other dispute resolution proceedings which may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management and disrupt our business operations. Our joint venture partners, Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group, have entered into competing businesses with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our joint venture contract with Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group, and Tianwei Yingli’s articles of association, do not impose non-compete restrictions upon Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group. While Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group’s current principal businesses are the manufacture of large electricity transformers, Tianwei Baobian and Tiaowei Group have entered into the PV business through investments in various companies that are engaged in the manufacture of polysilicon, ingots, wafers, PV cells or PV modules and thin film modules. As these companies continue to expand their respective businesses, they may compete with us both for customers and for supplies of raw materials, and we may not have any legal right to prevent them from doing so. Because of Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group’s familiarity with, and their ability to influence, the business of Tianwei Yingli, competition from Tianwei Baobian and Tianwei Group or their affiliates could have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The grant of employee share options and other share-based compensation could materially and adversely affect our net income. We adopted a stock incentive plan in December 2006, or the 2006 stock incentive plan. Our board of directors approved the 2006 stock incentive plan in April 2007, and in May 2007 our shareholders approved the first amendment to the 2006 stock incentive plan in order to increase the number of ordinary shares which we are authorized to issue under the 2006 stock incentive plan. The second amendment to the 2006 stock incentive plan was approved by our board of directors in July 2009 and by our shareholders in August 2009. This second amendment again increased the number of ordinary shares which we are authorized to issue under the 2006 stock incentive plan. Under the 2006 stock incentive plan, as amended, we may grant to our directors, employees and consultants up to 2,715,243 restricted shares and options to purchase up to 10,030,195 of our ordinary shares. As of the date of this annual report, we have granted to six executive officers, 665 employees and 4 independent directors options to purchase 7,413,429 ordinary shares in the aggregate (excluding forfeited and cancelled options) and an aggregate of 2,631,268 restricted shares (excluding forfeited restricted shares) to DBS Trustee Limited, or the trustee, for the benefit of five executive officers and 76 employees and non-employees. See “Item 6.B. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers — 2006 Stock Incentive Plan”. We account for compensation costs for all share-based awards, including share options granted to our directors and employees, using a fair-value based method. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness to us of having such an incentive plan. However, as share options are an important tool to recruit and retain qualified and desirable key personnel, we may not be able to attract and retain such key personnel if we were to reduce the scope of our stock incentive plan. 25 Table of Contents Our results of operations are difficult to predict, and if we do not meet market expectations, the price of our ADSs will likely decline. Our results of operations are difficult to predict and in the past such results have fluctuated from time to time. We expect that in the future our results of operations may continue to fluctuate from time to time. It is possible that our results of operations for some reporting periods will fail to meet the expectations of the market. Our results of operations are affected by a number of factors as set forth in “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects”. If our results of operations are lower than market expectations for a given reporting period, investors may react negatively, and as a result, the price of our ADSs will likely decline. Our limited intellectual property protection both within and outside of China may undermine our competitive position and subject us to intellectual property disputes with third parties, either of which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As of the date of this annual report, we have been granted 1,171 patents and currently are applying for 262 patents. Aside from know-how available in the public domain, we have developed in-house unpatented technical know-how that we use to manufacture our products. Many elements of our manufacturing processes involve proprietary know-how, technology or data, either developed by us in-house or transferred to us by our equipment suppliers. Such proprietary know-how, technology and data are not covered by patents or patent applications, and include manufacturing technologies and processes and production line and equipment designs. We rely on a combination of laws and regulations pertaining to patent, trademark, anti-unfair competition and trade secret rights, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our intellectual property rights. Nevertheless, these measures provide only limited protection and the actions we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other of our intellectual property rights, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or to determine and enforce the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of us or of other rights holders. We cannot assure you that the outcome of any such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert the attention of our management as well as our other resources away from our business. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent that we are unable to recover them from other parties. An adverse determination in any such litigation could result in the loss of one or more of our intellectual property rights and may materially and adversely harm our business, prospects and reputation. We have exported in the past, and expect to continue to export in the future, a substantial portion of our PV products outside of China. Because we do not have, and have not applied for, any patents for our proprietary technologies outside of China, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies and obtain patents for such intellectual properties in other jurisdictions, including the countries to which we export our PV modules. If any third party is successful in obtaining one or more patents for technologies that are substantially equivalent to, or the same as, our proprietary technologies in any market where we have not obtained such patent protection, and such third party enforces its intellectual property rights against us, our ability to sell products containing the allegedly infringing intellectual property in that market will be materially and adversely affected. If we are required to stop selling such allegedly infringing products, to seek licenses or to pay royalties for the relevant intellectual properties, or to redesign such products so as to refrain from using the allegedly infringing technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Third parties may initiate claims against us of infringement or misappropriation, which, if upheld against us or otherwise determined adversely, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to use and develop technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to PV technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. Although we take steps in the course of developing our products in order to ensure that we are not infringing the existing intellectual property rights of others, such as reviewing related patents and patent applications prior to developing our products, these steps may not be adequate. While we currently are not aware of any action pending or threatened against us, we may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. Resolving intellectual property disputes and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time-consuming, and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our PV modules or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our PV modules or the use of our technologies in certain markets. Protracted litigation also could cause our customers or potential customers to defer or limit their purchase or use of our PV modules until a time when such litigation has been resolved. 26 Table of Contents We are exposed to various risks related to legal or administrative proceedings or claims that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation, and may cause losses to our business. Litigation generally can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. We may be involved in allegations, litigation or legal or administrative proceedings from time to time as a result of our normal business operations. For example, on June 21, 2010, we commenced an arbitration proceeding against International Comercial E Industrial, S.A., or INCEISA, a Spanish distributor of solar products, at the International Court of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce. We commenced the arbitration seeking recovery from INCEISA of certain unpaid accounts receivable of approximately US$7.04 million and €14.47 million under the terms of a written settlement agreement. On October 11, 2011, the arbitral tribunal granted an award directing INCEISA to pay us over US$2.29 million and €15.98 million, respectively, as damages for breach of contractual obligations, as well as associated legal and arbitration costs. In October 2012, we received notice of an antitrust and unfair competition lawsuit filed by Solyndra, LLC, a U.S.-based solar company, against us and two other China-based solar manufacturers in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. Together with co-defendants Suntech Power Holdings Co., Ltd., Suntech America, Inc., Trina Solar Ltd. and Trina Solar (U.S.) Inc., In early March 2013 we filed a joint motion to dismiss all of the claims in an amended complaint that was filed by Solyndra’s liquidation trustee. On April 9, 2014, we received an order denying defendants’ joint motion to dismiss Solyndra’s claims. We are in the process of fact discovery and we will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in the case. See “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal and Administrative Proceedings”. In October 2013, we received notice of an antitrust lawsuit with claims similar to Solyndra’s filed by another U.S.-based solar company, Energy Conversion Devices Liquidation Trust, or ECD, through its liquidating trustee, against us and the same China-based solar manufacturers in the U.S. District Court of the Eastern District of Michigan. On October 31, 2014, the Court granted our joint motion to dismiss the case. In November 2014, the plaintiff filed a motion for reconsideration, and a second motion to amend or alter the judgement and for leave to file an amended complaint, both of which remain pending. See “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal and Administrative Proceedings”. In addition, in the past we had entered into several slurry processing and supply contracts with a certain supplier. Starting from late 2011, due to certain quality control issues related to the supplier and substantial changes in the slurry processing market, we and this supplier had disputes over the performance of the supply contracts and payments of accounts receivable. As of the date of this annual report, we have not received any summons or notice from any court or arbitration body pertaining to any proceeding brought against us by this supplier. In July 2014, we filed litigation against this supplier for breach of contract and claimed damages against this supplier. While at this stage it would be premature for us to evaluate our potential liabilities or losses, if any, relating to such disputes, if we are found to be liable in legal actions or other proceedings this supplier may bring against us, our financial position may be materially and adversely affected. Regardless of the merits, responding to allegations, litigation or legal or administrative proceedings and defending against litigation can be time consuming and costly, and may result in us incurring substantial legal and administrative expenses, as well as the attention of our management being diverted away from our business. Any such allegations, lawsuits or proceedings could have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. Further, unfavorable outcomes from these claims or lawsuits could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and key technical personnel, and our ability to retain a skilled labor force. Our business may be materially and adversely affected if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continuing services of our executive officers, in particular Liansheng Miao, our chief executive officer, Xiangdong Wang, our vice president, Zhiheng Zhao, our vice president, Yiyu Wang, our chief financial officer, Dengyuan Song, our chief technology officer, and Jingfeng Xiong, our vice president. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. In addition, if any of our executive officers joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-compete provisions. However, if any dispute were to arise between one of our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you that such officer’s employment agreement could be fully enforced in China. Furthermore, recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly experienced engineers and technicians familiar with our PV products manufacturing processes, is vital to maintaining the quality of our PV products and to improving continuously our production methods. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain qualified technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, key technical personnel and our executive officers, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Any failure to manage our growth, or otherwise to develop appropriate internal organizational structures, effective internal controls and systems to monitor and manage risk in parallel with our rapid growth could result in a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and operations have been expanding rapidly. Significant management resources must be expended to develop and implement appropriate structures for our internal organization and flows of information, effective internal controls and systems to monitor and manage risk in parallel with our rapid growth. We also need to be able to continue hiring and integrating qualified employees into our organization. It is challenging for us to hire, integrate and retain qualified employees in certain key areas of operations, such as engineers and technicians who are familiar with the PV industry. In addition, disclosure and other ongoing obligations associated with our being a public company further increase the challenges faced by our finance, legal and accounting teams. It is possible that our existing systems for monitoring and managing risk could prove inadequate. If we fail to develop and implement appropriate structures for our internal organization and flows of information, effective internal controls and systems to monitor and manage risk, we may not be able to identify unfavorable business trends, administrative oversights or other risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with construction and environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with present or future construction and environmental regulations may result in adverse publicity, potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions of our business operation. Historically, we started construction of and operation at certain of our facilities without having obtained all of the necessary construction permits and environmental approvals that were required under relevant regulations. We also started constructing certain other facilities as part of our capacity expansion projects while applications for relevant construction permits and environmental approvals were still being processed and had not yet been approved. Both prior failures and any current failure on our part to obtain relevant construction permits and environmental approvals needed for the construction of our facilities may prevent us from obtaining ownership certificates for our facilities. Our failure to obtain construction permits, environmental approvals, and ownership certificates may subject us to fines or penalties, which may materially and adversely affect our construction process, business operations and results of operations. Moreover, we started manufacturing without having completed certain examination and acceptance procedures required by relevant regulations. Our failure to pass these examination and acceptance procedures before commencing manufacturing may subject us to penalties, such as monetary fines or suspension of our business operations. Moreover, on March 6 and March 12, 2014, Hainan Yingli received notices from the Department of Land, Environment and Resources of Hainan Province, or Hainan LER Department, and the Haikou Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau, respectively, requesting Hainan Yingli to (i) suspend partially its production lines, and (ii) apply for new environmental impact assessments for the increase in its production capacity due to equipment upgrades. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — Environmental Matters”. On May 16, 2014, Hainan Yingli obtained trial production permits from Hainan LER Departmant, and on October 29, 2014, Hainan LER Department approved our application for new environmental impact assessments. In addition, any failure by us to control the use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances from our manufacturing facilities could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. Our manufacturing processes generate noise, waste water, gaseous byproducts and other industrial wastes and these processes are required to comply with national and local regulations regarding environmental protection. Except as disclosed in this annual report, we believe that we currently are in compliance in all material respects with present environmental protection requirements, and have obtained or in the process of obtaining all necessary environmental permits. In addition, if more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of complying with these new regulations could be substantial. If we fail to comply with any future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — PRC Governmental Regulations — Environmental Regulations”. 28 Table of Contents We are subject to cyber security risks and breaches, which could materially and adversely affect our business and disrupt our operations. We are subject to cyber security risks and may incur substantial costs to minimize those risks. Cyber security breaches, such as unauthorized access, accidents, employee errors or malfeasance, computer viruses, hackings or other disruptions, could compromise the security of our data and information technology infrastructure, thereby exposing such information to unauthorized third parties. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to information systems, or to sabotage those systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy, protect against or alleviate these and related problems, and we may not be able to remedy these problems in a timely manner, or at all. Any security breaches that occur could disrupt our operations, increase our security costs, or expose us to potential losses due to data corruption or information leakage, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Proceedings instituted by the SEC against the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in our financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC brought administrative proceedings against the Big Four accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in China, alleging that they had refused to produce audit work papers and other documents related to certain other China-based companies under investigation by the SEC for potential accounting fraud. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision, or Initial Decision, was issued, censuring these accounting firms and suspending four of the five firms from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The accounting firms filed a Petition for Review of the Initial Decision to the SEC. On February 6, 2015, the Big Four China-based accounting firms each agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC and audit U.S.-listed companies. The settlement required the firms to follow detailed procedures and to seek to provide the SEC with access to Chinese firms’ audit documents via the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC. If future document productions fail to meet specified criteria, the SEC retains authority to impose a variety of additional remedial measures on the firms depending on the nature of the failure. While we cannot predict if the SEC will further review the four China-based accounting firms’ compliance with specified criteria or if the results of such a review would result in the SEC imposing penalties such as suspensions or restarting the administrative proceedings, if the accounting firms are subject to additional remedial measures, our ability to file our financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could be impacted. A determination that we have not timely filed financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could ultimately lead to the delisting of our common stock from NYSE or the termination of the registration of our common stock under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our common stock in the United States. 29 Table of Contents The ordinary shares underlying the ADSs you purchased could become redeemable by us without your approval. Under the express terms of our ordinary shares, the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs in our issued and outstanding share capital are not redeemable. However, our board of directors may pass resolutions to allow us to redeem the ordinary shares from the holders, and two-thirds of the votes cast by the holders of the ordinary shares may approve such variation of share rights. The minority shareholders will not be able to prevent their share rights being varied in such a way and their ordinary shares could become redeemable by us as a result. We have adopted a shareholders rights plan, which, together with the other anti-takeover provisions of our articles of association, could discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our current articles of association contain provisions that limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or to cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. On October 17, 2007, our board of directors adopted a shareholders rights plan, which was amended on June 2, 2008. Under this rights plan, one right was distributed with respect to each of our ordinary shares outstanding at the closing of business on October 26, 2007. These rights entitle the holders to purchase ordinary shares from us at half the market price at the time of purchase in the event that a person or group obtains ownership of 15% or more of our ordinary shares (including by acquisition of the ADSs representing an ownership interest in the ordinary shares) or enters into an acquisition transaction without the approval of our board of directors. This rights plan and the other anti-takeover provisions of our articles of association could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. Our existing authorized ordinary shares confer on the holders of our ordinary shares equal rights, privileges and restrictions. The shareholders have, by virtue of adoption of our third amended and restated articles of association, authorized the issuance of shares of par value of US$0.01 each without specifying any special rights, privileges or restrictions. Therefore, our board of directors may, without further action by our shareholders, issue our ordinary shares, or issue shares of such class and attach to such shares special rights, privileges or restrictions, which may be different from those associated with our ordinary shares. Preferred shares also could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or to make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue ordinary shares or preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents A simple majority of the holders of our shares who vote at a general meeting may sub-divide any of our shares into shares of a smaller par value and may determine that, among the shares so sub-divided, some of such shares may have preferred or other rights or restrictions that are different from those applicable to other such shares. Under our articles of association, a simple majority of the holders of our shares who vote at a general meeting may sub-divide any of our shares into shares of a smaller par value than is fixed by our articles of association, subject to the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands, and may by such resolution determine that, among the shares so sub-divided, some of such shares may have preferred or other rights or restrictions that are different from those applicable to the other such shares resulting from such sub-division. Any sub-divided shares will be allocated on a pro-rated basis among the holders of our shares, and a two-thirds vote of any class of shares having special rights or restrictions as a result of such sub-division will be required to further vary the special rights or restrictions attached to such shares. The purpose of this provision is to give flexibility to shareholders to vary our share capital by effecting a sub-division and to alter the rights attaching to the sub-divided shares in order to facilitate transactions where shareholders provide benefits or contribute assets to our company in consideration for an enhancement of the rights of their shares instead of issuing new shares. However, as the minority shareholders will not be able to prevent the majority shareholders from effecting such sub-division and designation of special rights or restrictions, such rights of our majority shareholders may discourage investors from making an investment in us, which may have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. The quorum for the general meeting of our shareholders is one-third of our issued voting shares. Accordingly, shareholder resolutions may be passed without the presence of the majority of our shareholders in person or by proxy. The quorum required for the general meeting of our shareholders is two shareholders entitled to vote and present in person or by proxy or, if the shareholder is a corporation, by its duly authorized representative representing not less than one-third in nominal value of our total issued voting shares. Therefore, subject to obtaining the requisite approval from a majority of the shareholders so present, a shareholder resolution may be passed at our shareholder meetings without the presence of the majority of our shareholders present in person or by proxy. Such rights by the holders of a minority of our shares may discourage investors from making an investment in us, which may have a material and adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. If a poll is not demanded at our shareholder meetings, voting will be by show of hands and shares will not be proportionately represented. Voting at any of our shareholder meetings is by show of hands unless a poll is demanded. A poll may be demanded by the chairperson of the meeting, or by at least three shareholders present in person or by proxy, or by any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy holding at least 10% of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right to vote at the meeting, or by a shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on the shares conferring that right. If a poll is demanded, each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote for each ordinary share registered in his name. If a poll is not demanded, voting will be by show of hands and each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote regardless of the number of shares registered in his name. In the absence of a poll, shares therefore will not be proportionately represented. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material and adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Our business is based in China and some of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, the level of development, the growth rate, the control of foreign exchange, and the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 20 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and across various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. 31 Table of Contents In addition, we cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform, or that if there is a slowdown, such slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. For example, the growth rate of China’s gross domestic product has slowed down in recent years, from 7.7% in 2013 to 7.4% in 2014. The Chinese government has set the expected gross domestic product growth rate at 7.0% for 2015. We cannot assure you that the various macroeconomic measures, monetary policies and economic stimulus package adopted by the PRC government to guide economic growth and the allocation of resources will be effective in sustaining the rapid growth rate of the Chinese economy. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material and adverse effect on overall economic growth and the level of renewable energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material and adverse effect on our businesses. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material and adverse effect on us and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, the final version, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to Sino-foreign equity joint venture companies and wholly foreign owned companies. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to evolve rapidly, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform, and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to evolve rapidly, the interpretations of laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform, and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. The Ministry of Commerce published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law in January 2015 aiming to, upon its enactment, replace the trio of existing laws regulating foreign investment in China, namely, the Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law, the Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Enterprise Law and the Wholly Foreign-invested Enterprise Law, together with their implementation rules and ancillary regulations. The draft Foreign Investment Law embodies an expected PRC regulatory trend to rationalize its foreign investment regulatory regime in line with prevailing international practice and the legislative efforts to unify the corporate legal requirements for both foreign and domestic investments. The Ministry of Commerce has solicited comments on this draft and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to its enactment timetable, the final version, interpretation and implementation. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may materially impact our corporate governance practice and increase our compliance costs. For instance, the draft Foreign Investment Law imposes stringent ad hoc and periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors and the applicable FIEs. Aside from investment implementation report and investment amendment report that are required at each investment and alteration of investment specifics, an annual report is mandatory, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria are required to report on a quarterly basis. Any company found to be non-compliant with these information reporting obligations may potentially be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liabilities, and the persons directly responsible may be subject to criminal liabilities. It is uncertain when the draft would be signed into law and whether the final version would have any substantial changes from the draft. The PRC rule on mergers and acquisitions may subject us to sanctions, fines and other penalties and negatively affect our ability to acquire complementary businesses in order to grow our business in the future. On August 8, 2006, six PRC government and regulatory authorities, including the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, and the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, promulgated a rule entitled Provisions regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009. The M&A Rule, as amended, among other things, established procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise or of a foreign company with substantial PRC operations, if certain thresholds are triggered under the Provisions on Thresholds for Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings, issued by the State Council on August 3, 2008. Furthermore, MOFCOM promulgated the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Mergers and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors in August 2011, or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, which came into effect on September 1, 2011, to implement the Notice of the General Office of the State Council on Establishing the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated on February 3, 2011, or Circular No. 6. According to Circular No. 6, a security review is required for mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors of PRC domestic enterprises (i) having “national defense and security” concerns, and (ii) where the foreign investors may acquire the “de facto control” of PRC domestic enterprises having national security concerns such as key farm products, key energy and resources, and key infrastructure, transportation, technology and major equipment manufacturing industries. Circular No. 6, however, does not define the terms “key” or “major”, nor has it exhausted all of the industries that may be deemed as sensitive industries subject to a security review. When deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a domestic enterprise by foreign investors is subject to a security review by MOFCOM, the principle of “substance over form” should be applied. Foreign investors are prohibited from bypassing the security review requirement by structuring transactions through nominee holding structures, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements, offshore transactions, or other means. We believe that our current business is not in an industry that is sensitive or related to national security. However, we cannot preclude the possibility that MOFCOM or other government agencies may release interpretations or new rules contrary to our understanding, or broaden the scope of such security review in the future. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. Complying with the requirements of these regulations in order to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit the completion of such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business and maintain our market share. 32 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to overseas investment by PRC residents may restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities and adversely affect the implementation of our strategy as well as our business and prospects. In 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a number of rules regarding offshore investments by PRC residents. The rule currently in effect, the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’Offshore Investment and Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular 37, was issued on July 4, 2014, which replaced the former circular commonly known as SAFE Circular 75 promulgated by SAFE on October 21, 2005. SAFE Circular 37 requires PRC residents to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity, for the purpose of overseas investment and financing, with such PRC residents’legally owned assets or equity interests in domestic enterprises or offshore assets or interests, referred to in SAFE Circular 37 as a special purpose vehicle. SAFE Circular 37 further requires amendment to the registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the special purpose vehicle, such as increase or decrease of capital contributed by PRC individuals, share transfer or exchange, merger, division or other material event. In the event that a PRC shareholder holding interests in a special purpose vehicle fails to fulfill the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that special purpose vehicle may be prohibited from making profit distributions to the offshore parent and from carrying out subsequent cross-border foreign exchange activities, and the special purpose vehicle may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiary. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for evasion of foreign exchange controls. On February 13, 2015, SAFE released the Notice on Further Simplifying and Improving Policies for the Foreign Exchange Administration of Direct Investment, or SAFE Circular 13, which will become effective on June 1, 2015. According to this notice, local banks will examine and handle foreign exchange registration for overseas direct investment, including the initial foreign exchange registration and amendment registration, under SAFE Circular 37. However, since the notice has not yet come into effect, there exists a high degree of uncertainty as to how it will be interpreted and implemented by governmental authorities and banks. Since we are a Cayman Islands company with a substantial portion of our shares held by Yingli Power Holding Company Ltd., a British Virgin Islands company controlled by Mr. Liansheng Miao, our chairperson and chief executive officer who is a PRC resident, Mr. Miao is subject to the registration requirements under SAFE Circular 37 and other related rules. Mr. Miao made the requisite SAFE registration under SAFE Circular 75 with respect to his investment in Yingli Power Holding Company Ltd. and us in August 2006. Mr. Miao amended his SAFE registration in June 2007, January 2008, October 2009 and January 2014, in connection with our initial public offering in June 2007, our secondary and convertible senior notes offerings in December 2007, our issuance of senior secured convertible notes and the follow-on offering in 2009, and the change of Mr. Miao’s shareholding in Yingli Power Holding Company Ltd. and us in 2014, respectively. Mr. Miao is amending his SAFE registration under SAFE Circular 75 in accordance with SAFE Circular 37 in connection with our follow-on offering in 2014. We have requested other of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications and filings in connection with our offshore financing transactions as required under SAFE Circular 37 and relevant SAFE guidance. However, we may not be informed of the identities of all the PRC residents holding direct or indirect interest in our company, and we cannot provide any assurance that these PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements under SAFE Circular 37 or other related rules. The failure or inability of Mr. Miao or any of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth in SAFE Circular 37 and other related rules may subject Mr. Miao or other PRC resident shareholders to fines and legal penalties, result in potential liability for our PRC subsidiaries, and in some instances, for their legal representatives and other liable individuals, limit our ability to contribute additional capital into or provide loans to our PRC subsidiaries, and also may limit the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview — PRC Governmental Regulations — Regulation of Foreign Exchange in Certain Onshore and Offshore Transactions”. Dividends we may receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and its implementation rules provide that withholding tax at a rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises”, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, unless any such non-PRC investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Furthermore, a circular issued on February 22, 2008 by the Ministry of Finance, or the MOF, and the State Administration of Taxation stipulates that undistributed earnings generated prior to January 1, 2008 are exempt from enterprise income tax. We are a Cayman Islands holding company, Yingli Green Energy (International) Holding Company Limited, or Yingli International, is a British Virgin Islands intermediate holding company, and Cyber Lighting Holding Company Limited, or Cyber Lighting, is a Hong Kong intermediate holding company. The Cayman Islands and the British Virgin Islands where such holding companies are incorporated do not have a tax treaty with China. According to the Arrangement between Mainland China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income entered into in August 2006, or the Mainland and the Hong Kong Taxation Arrangement, subject to the confirmation of the local tax authority in charge, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its direct holding company in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of no more than 5%, if the foreign investor is the “beneficial owner” and owns directly at least 25% the equity interests in the foreign-invested enterprise. Furthermore, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreements in October 2009, or Circular 601, which provides guidance for determining whether a resident of a contracting country is the “beneficial owner” of an item of income under China’s tax treaties and tax arrangements. According to Circular 601, a beneficial owner generally must be engaged in substantive business activities. An agent or conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits. A conduit company normally refers to a company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits. Substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC. Thus, dividends for earnings accumulated beginning on January 1, 2008 payable to us by our subsidiaries in China, if any, will be subject to a 10% withholding tax or, in the case of the dividends paid to Cyber Lighting, 5% withholding tax (subject to the confirmation of the local tax authority), if we are considered under the EIT Law to be a “non-resident enterprise”. We intend indefinitely to reinvest undistributed earnings accumulated in and after 2008 and therefore have not recognized a deferred income tax liability with respect to those earnings. If we are subject under the EIT Law to such withholding tax for any dividends we may receive from our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely increase our income tax expenses. 33 Table of Contents We and some of our subsidiaries may be deemed resident enterprises under the EIT Law and be subject to PRC taxation as to our worldwide income. The EIT Law also provides that enterprises established outside China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and generally are subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation rules for the EIT Law issued by the State Council, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties and other factors of an enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Overseas Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or SAT Circular 82 which sets out criteria for determining whether “de facto management bodies” are located in China for overseas incorporated, domestically controlled enterprises. However, as this circular only applies to enterprises incorporated under laws of foreign countries or regions that are controlled by PRC enterprises or groups of PRC enterprises, it remains unclear how the tax authorities will determine the location of “de facto management bodies” for enterprises incorporated overseas that are controlled by individual PRC residents like us and some of our subsidiaries. Therefore, although substantially all of our management is currently located in the PRC, it remains unclear whether the PRC tax authorities would require or permit our overseas registered entities to be treated as PRC resident enterprises. If the PRC tax authorities determine that Yingli Green Energy and some of our subsidiaries, such as Yingli International, Yingli Capital, Yingli Hong Kong, Cyber Power and Cyber Lighting, are PRC resident enterprises, we and such subsidiaries may be subject to enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% as to our global income, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and a material and adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us would be exempt from the PRC dividend withholding tax, since such income distribution is exempted under the EIT Law if paid to PRC resident recipients. Dividends payable by us to non-PRC holders of our ordinary shares or ADS and gains on the sale of our ordinary shares or ADSs may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the EIT Law and implementation rules issued by the State Council, PRC withholding tax at a rate of 10% is applicable to payments of dividends to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent that such payments of dividends have their sources within the PRC. PRC withholding tax at a rate of 20% is applicable to payments of dividends to investors who are non-resident individuals, to the extent that such payments of dividends have their sources within the PRC. Any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or ordinary shares by such investors also is subject to PRC income tax if such gain constitutes income derived from sources within the PRC. It is currently unclear what constitutes income derived from sources within the PRC. Therefore, it is unclear whether dividends we may pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax if we were treated as a PRC resident enterprise. Furthermore, according to Circular 601, a beneficial owner generally must be engaged in substantive business activities. An agent or conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits. A conduit company normally refers to a company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits. We cannot assure you that any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders whose jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China providing for a different withholding arrangement will be entitled to the benefits under that relevant withholding arrangement. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to non-PRC holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 34 Table of Contents We face uncertainties with respect to indirect transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises or other assets attributed to a Chinese establishment of a non-Chinese company, or immovable properties located in China owned by non-Chinese companies. PRC tax authorities’ heightened scrutiny of acquisition transactions involving any such indirect transfer may have a negative impact on our acquisition strategy. On February 3, 2015, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Bulletin on Issues of Enterprise Income Tax on Indirect Transfers of Assets by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or Bulletin 7, which replaced or supplemented previous rules under the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or Circular 698, issued by the State Administration of Taxation, on December 10, 2009. Pursuant to this Bulletin, an “indirect transfer” of assets, including equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise, by non-PRC resident enterprises may be re-characterized and treated as a direct transfer of PRC taxable assets, if such arrangement does not have a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of avoiding payment of PRC enterprise income tax. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax. According to Bulletin 7, “PRC taxable assets” include assets attributed to an establishment in China, immoveable properties located in China, and equity investments in PRC resident enterprises, in respect of which gains from their transfer by a direct holder, being a non-PRC resident enterprise, would be subject to PRC enterprise income taxes. When determining whether there is a “reasonable commercial purpose” of the transaction arrangement, features to be taken into consideration include: whether the main value of the equity interest of the relevant offshore enterprise derives from PRC taxable assets; whether the assets of the relevant offshore enterprise mainly consists of direct or indirect investment in China or if its income mainly derives from China; whether the offshore enterprise and its subsidiaries directly or indirectly holding PRC taxable assets have real commercial nature which is evidenced by their actual function and risk exposure; the duration of existence of the business model and organizational structure; the replicability of the transaction by direct transfer of PRC taxable assets; and the tax situation of such indirect transfer and applicable tax treaties or similar arrangements. In respect of an indirect offshore transfer of assets of a PRC establishment, the resulting gain is to be included with the enterprise income tax filing of the PRC establishment or place of business being transferred, and would consequently be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Where the underlying transfer relates to the immoveable properties located in China or to equity investments in a PRC resident enterprise, which is not related to a PRC establishment or place of business of a non-resident enterprise, a PRC enterprise income tax at 10% would apply, subject to available preferential tax treatment under applicable tax treaties or similar arrangements, and the payor bears the withholding obligation. Where the payor fails to withhold any or sufficient tax, the transferor shall declare and pay such tax to the tax authority by itself within the statutory time limit. Late payment of applicable tax will subject the transferor to default interest. Bulletin 7 does not apply to transactions of sale of shares by investors through a public stock exchange where such shares were acquired from a transaction through a public stock exchange. There is uncertainty as to the application of Bulletin 7 and the previous rules under Circular 698. Especially since Bulletin 7 has been promulgated only recently, it is not clear how it will be implemented. Tax authorities may determine that Bulletin 7 is applicable to any offshore transaction involving both us and a non-PRC resident enterprise. As a result, both transferors and transferees may be subject to obligations to withhold, or make filings regarding, EIT, and one or more of our PRC subsidiaries may need to assist with such filing. Furthermore, we and one or more of our non-PRC resident enterprises or PRC subsidiaries may need to spend valuable resources in order to comply with Bulletin 7, or to establish that we and our non-PRC resident enterprises should not be taxed under Bulletin 7. Any such expenditure of valuable resources may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive dividends from our PRC subsidiaries and their ability to obtain overseas financing. Under the Foreign Currency Administration Rules, the foreign exchange incomes of domestic entities and individuals can be remitted into China or deposited abroad, subject to terms and conditions to be issued by SAFE. Our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends to their shareholders, including us, in foreign currency without prior approval from SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that in the future the PRC government will not take measures to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions, including payment of such dividends. Foreign exchange transactions for capital account items, such as direct equity investments, loans and repatriation of investments, by our PRC subsidiaries continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of PRC governmental authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our PRC subsidiaries borrow foreign currency-denominated loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with the local offices of SAFE. These limitations could affect their ability to obtain additional equity or debt funding that is denominated in foreign currencies. PRC regulation of direct investment and loans by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or limit us from making additional capital contributions or loans to our PRC subsidiaries. Any capital contributions or loans that we, as an offshore entity, make to our PRC subsidiaries, are subject to PRC regulations. For example, any of our loans to our PRC subsidiaries cannot exceed the difference between the total amount of investment our PRC subsidiaries are approved to make under relevant PRC laws and the respective registered capital of our PRC subsidiaries, and must be registered with the local branch of SAFE as a procedural matter. In addition, our capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries must be approved by MOFCOM or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these approvals on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to obtain such approvals, our ability to make equity contributions or to provide loans to our PRC subsidiaries or to fund their operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect their liquidity and its ability to fund their working capital and expansion projects and meet their obligations and commitments. In addition, our capital contributions and, in limited circumstances, loans, to Tianwei Yingli also are subject to approvals by Tianwei Baobian, the holder of the minority equity interest in Tianwei Yingli. See “Item 4.A. History and Development of the Company — Joint Venture Contract — Increase or Reduction of Tianwei Yingli’s Registered Capital”. 35 Table of Contents We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC operating subsidiaries and limitations on their ability to pay dividends to us could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are a holding company and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our major PRC operating subsidiaries, including Tianwei Yingli, Yingli China, and Hainan Yingli New Energy Resources Co., Ltd., or Hainan Yingli, a PRC limited liability company and a majority-owned subsidiary of Yingli China, for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. If Tianwei Yingli, Yingli China, Hainan Yingli, Tianjin Yingli or Lixian Yingli incurs debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. As entities established in China, Tianwei Yingli, Yingli China, Hainan Yingli, Tianjin Yingli and Lixian Yingli are subject to certain limitations with respect to dividend payments. PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. As a Sino-foreign equity joint venture, Tianwei Yingli also is required each year to set aside a percentage, as decided by its board of directors, of its after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards to its reserve fund, enterprise development fund and employee bonus and welfare fund. As of December 31, 2014, such restricted reserves of Tianwei Yingli amounted to RMB236.9 million (US$38.2 million) and its accumulated profits that were unrestricted and were available for distribution amounted to RMB1,844.4 million (US$297.3 million). As a foreign investment enterprise, Yingli China is required to allocate at least 10% of its after-tax profits to its reserve fund until the cumulative amount of such reserve fund reaches 50% of its registered capital, and to set aside a certain amount of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to its employee bonus and welfare fund. These reserves may not be distributed as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2014, such restricted reserves of Yingli China amounted to RMB183.9 million (US$29.6 million), and its accumulated profits amounted to RMB 6.0 million (US$1.0 million). As a PRC domestic company, Hainan Yingli is required to allocate at least 10% of its after-tax profits to its reserve fund until the cumulative amount of such reserve fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves may not be distributed as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2014, such restricted reserves of Hainan Yingli amounted to RMB56.0 million (US$9.0 million) and its accumulated profits that were unrestricted and were available for distribution amounted to RMB466.6 million (US$75.2 million). As a PRC domestic company, Tianjin Yingli is required to allocate at least 10% of its after-tax profits to its reserve fund until the cumulative amount of such reserve fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves may not be distributed as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2014, such restricted reserves of Tianjin Yingli amounted to RMB10.7 million (US$1.7 million) and its accumulated profits that were unrestricted and were available for distribution amounted to RMB96.7 million (US$15.6 million). As a PRC domestic company, Lixian Yingli is required to allocate at least 10% of its after-tax profits to its reserve fund until the cumulative amount of such reserve fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves may not be distributed as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2014, such restricted reserves of Lixian Yingli amounted to RMB2.0 million (US$0.3 million) and its accumulated losses that were unrestricted and were available for distribution amounted to RMB(4.3) million (US$(0.7) million). In addition, if any of our PRC operating subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Limitations on the ability of our PRC operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Accordingly, if for any of the above or other reasons, we cannot receive dividends from our PRC operating subsidiaries, our liquidity, financial condition and ability to make dividend distributions to our shareholders will be materially and adversely affected. 36 Table of Contents SAFE rules and regulations may limit our ability to convert and transfer the net proceeds from our financings to our PRC subsidiaries, which may adversely affect the business expansions of our PRC subsidiaries, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from our financings into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, or SAFE Notice 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. The notice requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company, which is settled in Renminbi and converted from foreign currencies, may only be used for purposes within that company’s business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE heightened its scrutiny of the flow and purpose of use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies. The purpose of use for such Renminbi capital shall be within the business scope of the user as approved by the relevant governmental authority, and may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of SAFE Notice 142 may result in severe penalties, such as heavy fines. On July 15, 2014, SAFE issued a SAFE Notice 36 which launched the pilot reform of administration regarding conversion of foreign currency registered capitals of foreign-invested enterprises in 16 pilot areas. According to the SAFE Notice 36, an ordinary foreign-invested enterprise with a business scope containing “investment” in the pilot areas is permitted to use Renminbi converted from its foreign-currency registered capital to make equity investments in the PRC, subject to certain registration and settlement procedure as set forth in the SAFE Notice 36. On November 19, 2012, SAFE promulgated the Circular on Further Improving and Adjusting the Policies on Administration of Foreign Exchange under Direct Investment, or Circular 59, which came into force on December 17, 2012. Circular 59 relaxes the foreign exchange controls over inbound and outbound investments by PRC companies and simplifies the current administrative system, especially in foreign currency capital settlement and foreign exchange registration procedures of foreign invested enterprises. On November 9, 2011, SAFE also promulgated a Circular 45, which, among other things, restricts a foreign-invested enterprise from using RMB converted from its registered capital to provide entrusted loans or repay loans between non-financial enterprises. The SAFE Notice 142 and SAFE Notice 36 will be replaced by a newly issued SAFE Notice 19, which will become effective on June 1, 2015. The SAFE Notice 19 expands the reform of administration regarding conversion of foreign currency registered capitals of foreign-invested enterprises pursuant to the SAFE Notice 36 to a nationwide scope. According to the SAFE Notice 19, the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may be used for purposes within the business scope, make payment of equity investment and may not be used to repay inter-enterprise loans or RMB loans already refinanced to any third party. However, as the restrictions imposed by the SAFE Notice 142, Circular 59 and Circular 45 are still effective and may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from our financings to our PRC subsidiaries, the business expansions of our PRC subsidiaries may be adversely affected. In addition, considering that SAFE Notice 19 is lately promulgated and has not taken effective yet, it is unclear how it will be implemented and there exist high uncertainties with respect to its interpretation and implementation by authorities. All employee participants in our existing stock option plans who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. We also may face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional option plans for our directors and employees under PRC law. Pursuant to the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, promulgated on January 5, 2007 by SAFE and the Notices on Issues concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Share Incentive Plans of Overseas-listed Companies, or the Share Option Rules, promulgated in February 2012 by SAFE, which terminated the Operating Procedures on Administration of Foreign Exchange for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Share Ownership Plans and Share Option Plans of Overseas-listed Companies issued by SAFE in March 2007, PRC citizens or residents habitually residing in the PRC continuously for over one year, who are granted shares or share options by an overseas-listed company according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required, through the PRC subsidiary of such overseas-listed company or qualified PRC agents, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the shareholding plan, share option plan or other similar share incentive plans. Concurrent with the registration with SAFE, the PRC subsidiary or qualified PRC agent shall obtain approval for an annual foreign exchange allowance in connection with potential exercises under the shareholding or share option plan as well as an approval for opening a special foreign exchange account in a domestic PRC bank to hold the funds required to exercise such share purchase or share option right, returned principal or profits upon sale of shares, dividends issued on the stock, and any other income or expenditures approved by SAFE. Currently, participating PRC residents’ foreign exchange income received from the sale of shares or dividends distributed by an overseas-listed company must be fully remitted into the domestic foreign currency account before being distributed to such participants. In addition, the PRC agents are required to amend or deregister the registrations with SAFE in case of any material change in, or termination of, the share incentive plans, within the time periods provided by the Share Option Rules. Any failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and the participants of our employee stock option plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from further granting options under our employee stock option plan to our employees, which could adversely affect our business operations. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks of contagious diseases. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, avian flu, or another epidemic or outbreak. In 2005 and 2006, there were reports on occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. During 2007 and early 2008, there were reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian flu, caused by the H5N1 virus, in certain regions of Asia and Europe. In 2009 and 2010, there were reports on occurrences of swine flu, caused by the H1N1 virus, in Mexico, the United States, China and certain other countries and regions around the world. In 2013, there were reports on occurrences of avian flu, caused by the H7N9 virus, in certain regions in China. An outbreak of avian flu or swine flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, any recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 which affected China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, also would have similar adverse effects. These outbreaks of contagious diseases, and other adverse public health developments in China, would have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. These could include restrictions on our ability to travel or to ship our products outside of China, as well as cause temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, swine flu, SARS or any other epidemic. 37 Table of Contents Risks Related to our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been and will continue to be highly volatile. Since the ADSs became listed on the NYSE on June 8, 2007, the trading prices of the ADSs have ranged from US$1.25 to US$41.50 per ADS, and the last reported trading price on May 14, 2015 was US$1.68 per ADS. The price of our ADSs may continue to fluctuate in response to factors including the following: · announcements of technological or competitive developments; · regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; · announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; · announcements of studies and reports relating to the conversion efficiencies of our products or those of our competitors; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; · changes in financial projections or estimates about our financial or operational performance by securities research analysts; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other PV technology companies; · addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and · sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations also may have a material and adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. As of the date of this annual report, we had 181,763,770 ordinary shares outstanding, including 128,592,337 ordinary shares represented by ADSs. All ADSs sold in our public offerings are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. All of the remaining ordinary shares outstanding are, subject to the applicable requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, available for sale. If our existing shareholders sell, or are perceived as intending to sell, substantial amounts of our ordinary shares or ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of our outstanding stock options, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales, or perceived potential sales, by our existing shareholders might make it more difficult for us to issue new equity or equity-related securities in the future at such a time and place as we deem appropriate. 38 Table of Contents Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights as our shareholders and may only exercise voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. As a holder of ADSs, you will not be treated as one of our shareholders and you will not have shareholder rights. Instead, the depositary will be treated as the holder of the shares underlying your ADSs. However, you may exercise some shareholders’ rights through the depositary, and you will have the right to withdraw the shares underlying your ADSs from the deposit facility. Under our current articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is ten days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We plan to make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you had requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. The depositary for the ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless: · we have failed to provide the depositary with notice of the meeting and related voting materials at least 30 days prior to the date of such shareholders’ meeting; · we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; · we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; · a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material and adverse effect on shareholders; or · voting at the meeting is made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence our management. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of the ADSs has agreed to pay you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for the ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares which your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration required for such distribution cannot be obtained after reasonable efforts are made by the depositary. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of the ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of the ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 39 Table of Contents As a holder of the ADSs, your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings, and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, as a holder of the ADSs, you may not be able to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of the ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares which your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law relative to U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you otherwise would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions of the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a body of securities laws that is less developed than that of the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have bodies of corporate law that are more fully developed and judicially interpreted than those of the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, shareholders of a Cayman Islands company may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a company incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. For example, contrary to the general practice of most corporations incorporated in the United States, Cayman Islands law does not require that shareholders approve sales of all or substantially all of a company’s assets. The limitations described above also will apply to the depositary who is treated as the holder of the shares underlying your ADSs. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States and a substantial majority of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It also may be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. In addition, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. 40 Table of Contents 