Item 1A. Risk FactorsTravelport may have interests that differ from our interests or the interests of our other stockholders and because Travelport has a significant ownership stake in Orbitz and significant rights under our certificate of incorporation, it may be able to exert significant influence and control over us.At December 31, 2013, Travelport beneficially owned approximately 44.8% of our outstanding common stock and therefore is able to exert significant influence over us. Our certificate of incorporation (the “Charter”) provides Travelport with a greater degree of control and influence in the operation of our business and the management of our affairs than is typically available to a stockholder of a publicly-traded company. Under our Charter, until Travelport ceases to beneficially own shares entitled to 33% or more of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our then-outstanding common stock, the prior consent of Travelport is required before the Company can act or engage in certain situations, including: (i) the nomination or appointment of members of the Board of Directors or to any committee of the Board; (ii) transactions, including consolidations, mergers, sales, leases, dispositions or acquisitions over a certain amount; (iii) financing arrangements; and (iv) changes to our capital structure. Because the Company is prohibited from taking these actions without the prior consent of Travelport, we lack flexibility and could be prevented from being able to pursue transactions or other arrangements that would be in the best interests of our stockholders. We also may be prevented from nominating or appointing directors who we believe are best suited to serve on our Board of Directors.In addition to these charter provisions, Travelport owns sufficient shares to significantly influence any actions requiring the approval of our stockholders, including adopting most amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approving or rejecting proposed mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. Travelport’s interests may differ from those of our other stockholders in material respects and, as a practical matter, Travelport will be able to exert significant influence and potential control over matters put to a vote of our stockholders so long as it continues to own a significant amount of our outstanding voting stock, even though that amount is currently less than 50%. This could also limit stockholder value by preventing a change of control that our stockholders might consider favorable.To varying extents, travel suppliers use global distribution systems to connect their products and services with travel companies, who in turn make these products and services available to travelers for booking. We entered into a new GDS service agreement with Travelport on February 4, 2014 (the “New Travelport GDS Service Agreement”). Under this agreement, we are required to use only Travelport GDSs for all air and car segments booked on domestic agencies and are subject to certain other exclusivity obligations for segments booked in Europe and other markets through December 31, 2014. Our contractual obligations to Travelport for GDS services limit our ability to use alternative GDS options before December 31, 2014 and as a result, if Travelport became unwilling or was unable to provide these services to us, we may not be able to transition to alternative providers and our business could be materially and adversely affected. After December 31, 2014, we are subject to certain minimum segment volume thresholds, but have significantly more flexibility to use alternate connectivity options. While the New Travelport GDS Service Agreement provides the Company significant flexibility than our prior arrangement with Travelport for GDS services, it is possible that the Company will negotiate with Travelport over the course of the agreement for modifications and amendments to the agreement. Because of our relationship with Travelport and the significant influence Travelport has over the Company, we may have a weakened negotiating position in discussions where 14Travelport has a divergent interest from us. In recognition of the fact that Travelport’s interests may differ from ours, our Audit Committee, in accordance with applicable listing and regulatory requirements and principles of good corporate governance, takes an active role in reviewing and approving any agreement involving more than $120,000 of payments or receipts in which Travelport (or any other related party) has an interest, including the New Travelport GDS Service Agreement entered into on February 4, 2014.Disruptions or prolonged declines in travel volume, particularly air travel, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue is derived from the worldwide travel industry and is directly related to the overall level of travel activity, particularly air travel and hotel volume. Therefore, our revenue is significantly impacted by declines in or disruptions to travel in the United States, Europe and the Asia Pacific region due to factors entirely outside of our control. Factors that could affect travel activity and materially adversely impact our results of operations, business and revenue include:•deterioration, weakness or uncertainty in the global economy;•global security issues, political instability, acts or threats of terrorism, regional hostilities or war, and other political issues that could adversely affect travel volume in our key regions;•health-related concerns, such as epidemics or pandemics;•natural disasters, such as hurricanes, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and droughts; •severe weather conditions, or unusual or unpredictable weather patterns;•the financial condition of suppliers, particularly those in the airline and hotel industry, and the impact of their financial condition on the cost and availability of air travel and hotel rooms; •changes in airline distribution policies or increases in airfares;•changes to regulations governing the airline and travel industry or the imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities;•an increase in fuel prices affecting travel; •work stoppages or labor unrest at any of the major airlines, airports or major hotel chains;•travel-related accidents or safety concerns;•increased airport security that could reduce the convenience of air travel;•changes in occupancy and room rates achieved by hotels; and•travelers’ perceptions of the occurrence of or the scope, severity and timing of the factors described above. If there is a prolonged substantial decrease in travel volumes, particularly for air travel and hotel stays, for these or any other reasons, it would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The travel industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to effectively compete in the future.We operate in the highly competitive travel industry. Our success depends upon our ability to compete effectively against numerous established and emerging competitors, including other OTCs, traditional offline travel companies, suppliers, travel research companies, search engines and meta-search companies, which may have significantly greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we have. Factors affecting our competitive success include price, availability of travel products, ability to package travel products across multiple suppliers, brand recognition, customer service and customer care, fees charged to customers, ease of use, accessibility, reliability and innovation. If we are not able to compete effectively against our competitors, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.Online travel agencies: We face significant competition from other online travel agencies, such as Priceline, Expedia, Travelocity, and their related brands, as well as other regional competitors such as Ctrip in China and Odigeo in Europe. We compete with offline travel agencies for both travelers and the acquisition and retention of supply.Travel suppliers: Suppliers have increasingly focused on distributing their products through their own websites and driving consumers away from OTCs. Suppliers may offer advantages for customers to book directly, such as member-only fares, bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to customers. Some low-cost airlines distribute their online supply exclusively through their own website and other carriers have attempted to drive customers to book directly on their websites by eliminating or limiting sales of certain airline tickets through third-party distributors. Our results of operations could be negatively affected by such increased competitive pressure from suppliers. Search engines: We also face increasing competition from search engines like Google, Bing and Yahoo!. Search engines have grown in popularity and may offer comprehensive travel planning or shopping capabilities, which may drive more traffic directly to the websites of suppliers or competitors. Google has increased its focus on appealing to travel customers through its 15launches of Google Places, Google Flights, and Google Hotel Price Ads (HPA). Google’s efforts around these products, as well as possible future developments, may change or undermine our ability to obtain prominent placement in paid or unpaid search results at a reasonable cost or at all. In addition, we currently license our search functionality, QPX Software, from ITA Software, Inc., a subsidiary of Google. Travel meta-search engines and content aggregators: Travel meta-search websites and travel research sites that have search functionality, including Kayak.com (a subsidiary of our competitor Priceline), Trivago.com (a subsidiary of our competitor Expedia), and TripAdvisor, aggregate travel search results for a specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites. If these competitors limit our participation within their results, it could affect our traffic-generating arrangements in a negative manner. In addition, some meta-search sites, such as Kayak.com, offer users the ability to make reservations directly on their websites, which may reduce the amount of traffic and transactions available to us through referrals from these sites.Other competitors in the broader travel space: We also will continue to face competition from new channels of distribution in the travel industry. Additional sources of competition could include “daily deal” websites, such as Groupon Getaways, or peer-to-peer inventory sources, such as AirBnB. AirBnB and similar websites facilitate the short-term rental of homes and apartments from owners, thereby providing an alternative to hotel rooms. The growth of peer-to-peer inventory sources could affect the demand for our services in facilitating reservations at hotels.There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against any current and future competitors or on emerging platforms, or provide differentiated products and services to our customer base. Increasing competition from current and emerging competitors, the introduction of new technologies and the continued expansion of existing technologies, such as meta-search and other search engine technologies, may force us to make changes to our business models, which could affect our financial performance and liquidity. Increased competition has resulted in and may continue to result in reduced margins, as well as loss of customer, transactions and brand recognition.Our business depends on our supplier and distribution partner relationships. Adverse changes in these relationships or our inability to enter into new relationships could negatively affect our access to travel offerings and reduce our revenue.We rely significantly on our relationships with hotels, airlines and other suppliers and travel partners. We enter into agreements with these suppliers and travel partners at varying times and of varying duration. As a result, at any given point in time, one or more of these agreements may be approaching expiration or renewal. Moreover, in order to enhance the competitiveness of our offerings, we are constantly seeking to add new suppliers and travel partners. Adverse changes in any of these relationships (whether upon expiration of an agreement or otherwise) or the inability to enter into new relationships could negatively impact the availability and competitiveness of the travel products we offer on our websites and therefore could adversely affect our revenue. If any of our major suppliers or travel partners significantly reduces their business with us for a sustained period of time or completely withdraws from doing business with us, in favor of one of our competitors or to require consumers to purchase services directly from them, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and ability to retain customers.In particular, airlines continue to look for ways to decrease their overall costs, including the cost of distributing airline tickets through OTCs and GDSs, and to increase their control over distribution. The airlines have negotiated, and we expect they will continue to attempt to negotiate, terms more favorable to themselves when the opportunity presents itself, such as upon expiration of an agreement or in the case where the Company is distributing an airline’s services without a formal agreement in place (which is currently the case with American Airlines). If airlines are successful in obtaining more favorable terms in their agreements with us or in their agreements with the GDSs, or if an airline actually terminates an agreement with us, the net revenue we earn from the distribution of airline tickets would be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.For example, the Company temporarily discontinued its distribution of American Airlines (“AA”) tickets in 2010 after the Company and AA were unable to agree to terms under which the AA tickets would be offered on our websites. If similar situations were to occur with other airlines, it could reduce our access to air inventory, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage and reducing our revenues.Because we depend on a relatively small number of airlines and car rental companies for a significant portion of our revenue in those areas, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if suppliers consolidate in either of these industries. If there is consolidation in either of these industries, the Company would be forced to negotiate with a fewer number of total suppliers for the same number of segments, which would weaken our negotiating position and reduce our ability to negotiate favorable rates on segments. Additionally, consolidation of one or more of the major airlines, including the 16merger of American Airlines and US Airways, could result in a reduction in the number of airline tickets available for booking on our websites and increased air fares, which may have a negative impact on demand for travel.Our business has significant liquidity requirements. Our business has significant liquidity requirements. Certain events could have a negative impact on our liquidity, which in turn could affect our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or operate our business as it currently exists, including the following: •termination of a major supplier’s participation on our websites;•decline in merchant gross bookings due to deteriorating economic conditions or other factors;•decline in stand-alone hotel merchant gross bookings due to a shift from the merchant model to the retail model;•credit card processors could impose holdbacks or reserves;•changes to payment terms or other requirements imposed by vendors, suppliers, payment processors, consumer protection organizations, taxing authorities or regulatory agencies, such as requiring us to provide letters of credit, cash reserves, deposits or other forms of financial security or increases in such requirements; and•lower than anticipated operating cash flows from our operations or other unanticipated events, such as unfavorable outcomes in legal proceedings (including, in the case of hotel occupancy proceedings, certain jurisdictions’ requirements that we provide financial security or pay a deposit to the municipality in order to challenge the assessment in court).If any of these events occurs in the future, individually or in the aggregate, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our liquidity and the value of our common stock.We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could limit the manner in which we operate our business. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $443.3 million of outstanding borrowings under our senior secured credit agreement. Our substantial level of indebtedness could:•impair our ability to obtain additional financing or to obtain such financing on terms acceptable to us for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes;•reduce the funds available to us for purposes such as potential acquisitions, capital expenditures, working capital and general corporate purposes because we are required to use a portion of our cash flows from operations to make debt service payments;•put us at a competitive disadvantage because we have a higher level of indebtedness than some of our competitors and reduce our flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the economy or our industry, including increased competition; and•make us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and adverse developments in our business.The credit agreement requires us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and not to exceed a maximum first lien leverage ratio. If we fail to comply with these covenants and we are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, our lenders could accelerate the maturity of all amounts outstanding under our term loan and revolving credit facility and could proceed against the collateral securing this indebtedness. If this were to occur, there is no assurance that alternative financing would be available to us or at favorable terms.In addition, restrictive covenants in our credit agreement specifically limit our ability to, among other things:•incur additional indebtedness or enter into guarantees; •enter into sale and leaseback transactions; •make new investments, loans or acquisitions; •grant or incur liens on our assets; •sell our assets; •engage in mergers, consolidations, liquidations or dissolutions;•engage in transactions with affiliates; and •make any distribution or dividend payment or redeem or repurchase our capital stock. As a result, we may operate our business differently than if we were not subject to these covenants and restrictions.We face risks associated with online security and credit card fraud and data privacy breaches.17The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is essential in maintaining customer and supplier confidence in our services. Substantial or ongoing security breaches, whether instigated internally or externally on our system or on other Internet-based systems, could significantly harm our business. We currently require customers to guarantee transactions with their credit cards online. We rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential customer information, including credit card numbers. It is possible that our security measures may not prevent security breaches and that we may be unsuccessful in implementing our remediation plan to address potential exposures. A party (whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third party) that is able to circumvent our security systems could steal proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in our operations. Security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Security breaches could also cause customers and potential customers to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the demand for our products and services. Additionally, certain of our third party providers, including our GDS providers, receive our customers’ credit card information in order to process transactions. If there is a security breach on such third party provider that causes our customers’ credit card information to be compromised, we would face the same risks as we would to a breach on our own system, including damage to our reputation, risk of loss or litigation.Moreover, public perception concerning security and privacy on the Internet generally could adversely affect customers’ willingness to use our websites. Publicized breaches of security affecting other companies that conduct business over the Internet could cause consumers to be reluctant to use the Internet as a means of conducting commercial transactions and therefore reduce the number of consumers using our websites to book travel. Additionally, we may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards as payment for transactions and we have established an allowance for such fraudulent purchases. If we are unable to control the amount of fraudulent chargebacks for which we are liable, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We rely on search engines and content providers, who may change their business models in ways that could have a negative impact on our business.We use Google and other internet search engines to generate traffic to our websites, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords. Google and other search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a user’s search. These changes could negatively affect the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our websites. In addition, a significant amount of traffic is directed to our websites through our participation in pay-per-click and display advertising campaigns on search engines, meta-search sites and content properties. Pricing and operating dynamics for these traffic sources can experience rapid change, both technically and competitively. Moreover, any of these providers could, for competitive or other purposes, alter their search algorithms or results, causing our websites to place lower in search query results. If a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking, paid or unpaid, of our websites or that of our third-party distribution partners, or if competitive dynamics impact the costs or effectiveness of search engine optimization, search engine marketing or other traffic generating arrangements in a negative manner, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected, potentially to a material extent.We are dependent upon third-party systems and service providers and any disruption or adverse change in their businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business.We rely on certain third-party computer systems, service providers and software companies, including the electronic central reservation systems and GDSs. In particular, our businesses rely on third parties to:•conduct searches for airfares; •process hotel room transactions; •process credit card and other payments; and •provide computer infrastructure critical to our business.We currently utilize GDSs, including Worldspan, Galileo and Amadeus to process a significant portion of our bookings. In addition, we rely on a group of business process outsourcing companies located in various countries to provide us with call center and telesales services, back office administrative services such as ticketing fulfillment, hotel rate loading and quality control, information technology services, and financial services. Any interruption in these third-party services could prevent us from operating certain aspects of our business and damage our reputation. For instance, interruption or deterioration in our GDS partners’ products or services could prevent us from searching and booking airline and car rental reservations. 18Our success is dependent on our ability to maintain relationships with our technology partners. In the event our arrangements with any of these third parties are impaired or terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative source of systems support on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms, which could result in significant additional costs or disruptions to our business. In addition, some of our agreements with third-party service providers can be terminated by those parties on short notice and, in many cases, provide no recourse for service interruptions. A termination or disruption of these services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Certain of our international subsidiaries have a history of significant operating losses and our inability to improve their scale and profitability could adversely affect our business and results of operations.We have historically incurred significant operating losses at our international subsidiaries and may continue to experience operating losses in the future. As a result, we have made, and may continue to make, significant investments in our international operations by using a portion of the cash flow generated from our domestic operations or funds from other borrowings under our other credit facilities. There can be no assurance that our international subsidiaries will be profitable in the future or that any profits generated by them will be sufficient to recover our investments in them.The profitability of our international subsidiaries depends to a large extent on the scale of their operations. If we fail to achieve the desired scale, we may not be able to effectively compete in the global marketplace and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.Our international operations are subject to additional risks not encountered when doing business in the United States, including foreign exchange risk. We expect that our exposure to these risks will increase as we expand our international operations.We generated 27% of our net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013 from our international operations and had employees in over 20 countries. We are subject to certain risks as a result of having international operations and operations in multiple countries generally, including:•currency exchange rate fluctuations; •difficulties in staffing and managing operations due to distance, time zones, language and cultural differences, including issues associated with establishing management infrastructure in various countries;•differences and unexpected changes in local regulatory requirements and exposure to local economic conditions;•limits on our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights and increased risk of piracy;•preference of local populations for local providers; •restrictions on the repatriation of non-U.S. investments and earnings back to the United States, including withholding taxes imposed by certain foreign jurisdictions; and•diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights.To the extent we are not able to effectively mitigate or eliminate these risks, our results of operations could be adversely affected.Further, our international operations require us to comply with a number of U.S. and international regulations, including, among others, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and the U.K.'s Bribery Act 2010. Any failure by us to adopt and continue to practice appropriate compliance procedures to ensure that our employees and agents comply with the FCPA and applicable laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial penalties or restrictions on our ability to conduct business in certain foreign jurisdictions.We rely on information technology to operate our businesses and maintain our competitiveness, and any failure to adapt to technological developments or industry trends could affect our ability to compete and harm our business.We depend upon the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems, including technologies and systems utilized for reservations, communications, procurement and administrative systems. Certain of our businesses also utilize third-party fare search solutions and GDSs or other technologies. As our operations grow in both size and scope, we must continuously improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer our customers enhanced products, services, features and functionality, while maintaining the reliability and integrity of our systems and infrastructure. Our future success depends on our ability to adapt our services and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving industry standards while continuing to improve the performance and features of our service in response to competitive service and product offerings and the changing demands of the marketplace. In particular, we will need to commit additional financial, operational and technical resources in order to expand our systems and infrastructure to meet any potential increases in business volume. 19In addition, we may not be able to maintain our existing systems, obtain new technologies and systems, or replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as our competitors or in a cost-effective manner. We may fail to achieve the benefits anticipated or required from any new technology or system, or we may be unable to devote financial resources to new technologies and systems in the future. Furthermore, our use of this technology could be challenged by claims that we have infringed upon the patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of others. If any of these events occur, our business could suffer.System interruptions and the lack of redundancy may cause us to lose customers or business opportunities.We rely on computer and information technology systems to operate our business and process transactions. If we are unable to maintain and improve our information technology systems and infrastructure, we may experience system interruptions. System interruptions and slow delivery times, unreliable service levels, prolonged or frequent service outages, or insufficient capacity in our systems or the systems of the third parties on which we rely may prevent us from efficiently providing services to our customers, which could result in our losing customers and revenue or incurring liabilities. In addition to the risks associated with inadequate maintenance or upgrading, our information technologies and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from various causes, including:•power losses, computer systems failure, Internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator error, losses and corruption of data, and similar events;•computer viruses, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information and other physical or electronic breaches of security; •the failure of third-party systems or services that we rely upon to maintain our own operations; and•natural disasters, war and acts of terrorism.We do not have backup systems for certain critical aspects of our operations. For example, if we were unable to connect to certain third-party systems, such as GDSs, due to failure of our systems, our ability to process bookings could be significantly or completely impaired. Many other systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient. In addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage or insurance limits to compensate for losses from a major interruption, and remediation may be costly and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Any extended interruption in our technologies or systems could significantly curtail our ability to conduct our businesses and generate revenue.Our businesses are regulated and any failure to comply with applicable regulations or any changes in those regulations could adversely affect us.We operate in a regulated industry both in the United States and internationally. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in or the enactment of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us, which could decrease demand for our products and services, increase costs or subject us to additional liabilities. Moreover, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. Accordingly, these regulatory authorities could prevent or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us if our practices were found not to comply with the then current regulatory or licensing requirements or any interpretation of such requirements by the regulatory authority. Our failure to comply with any of these requirements or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, the various regulatory regimes to which we are subject may conflict so that compliance with the regulatory requirements in one jurisdiction may create regulatory issues in another.Because we process, store and use customer information, we are subject to additional risks as a result of governmental regulation and conflicting legal requirements regarding customer information. In the processing of customer transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable information. This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world. This legislation and regulation is generally intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information, including credit card information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. If domestic or international legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices, or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, we could be adversely affected. Travel companies have also been subjected to investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to allegedly improper disclosure of passenger information. As privacy and data protection have become more sensitive issues, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of travel data. These and other privacy concerns could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.20Our business is also subject to laws and regulations relating to our revenue generating and marketing activities, including those prohibiting unfair and deceptive advertising or practices. Our travel services are subject to regulation and laws governing the offer of travel products and services, including laws requiring us to register as a “seller of travel” in various jurisdictions and to comply with certain disclosure requirements. As an OTC that offers customers the ability to book air travel in the United States, we are also subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation, which has authority to enforce economic regulations and may assess civil penalties or challenge our operating authority.We are involved in various legal proceedings and may experience unfavorable outcomes, which could affect our financial position.We are involved in various legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, actions relating to intellectual property, in particular patent infringement claims against us, tax, antitrust, employment law and other negligence, breach of contract and fraud claims, which involve claims for substantial amounts of money or for other relief or that might necessitate changes to our business or operations. The defense of these actions may be both time consuming and expensive. If any of these legal proceedings were to result in an unfavorable outcome, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, historically, our insurers have reimbursed us for a significant portion of costs we incurred to defend cases related to use or occupancy tax of hotel accommodations that some states and localities impose (“hotel occupancy tax”). We will not receive any additional insurance reimbursements in future periods as our insurance coverage has now been exhausted.We may not be effectively protecting our intellectual property, which would allow competitors to duplicate our products and services. This could make it more difficult for us to compete with them.Our success and ability to compete depend, in part, upon our technology and other intellectual property, including our brands. Among our significant assets are our software and other proprietary information and intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and patent laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect these assets. However, we have a limited number of patents, and our software and related documentation are protected principally under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection, and the laws of some jurisdictions provide less protection for our proprietary rights than the laws of the United States. We have granted Travelport an exclusive license to our supplier link technology, including our patents related to that technology. Under the exclusive license, Travelport has the first right to enforce those patents, and so we will only be able to bring actions to enforce those patents if Travelport declines to do so. Unauthorized use and misuse of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the legal remedies available to us may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by unauthorized use.Further, intellectual property challenges have been increasingly brought against members of the travel industry. These legal actions have in the past, and might in the future, result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, we may need to take legal action in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, and these enforcement actions could result in the invalidation or other impairment of intellectual property rights we assert.Our ability to attract, train and retain executives and other qualified employees is critical to our results of operations and future growth.We depend substantially on the continued services and performance of our key executives, senior management and skilled personnel, particularly our professionals with experience in our industry and our information technology and systems. Any of these individuals may choose to terminate their employment with us at any time. The specialized skills we require can be difficult and time-consuming to acquire and, as a result, these skills are often in short supply. A significant period of time and expense may be required to hire and train replacement personnel when skilled personnel depart the Company. Our inability to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products and services to market or impairing the success of our operations or prospects for future growth.21We have granted Travelport perpetual licenses to use certain of our intellectual property, which could facilitate Travelport's ability to compete with us.We are party to a Master License Agreement with Travelport under which we and Travelport each have rights to use certain of the other’s intellectual property. The Master License Agreement permits Travelport and its affiliates to use and, in some cases, to sublicense to third parties certain of our intellectual property, including:•our supplier link technology; •portions of ebookers’ booking, search and vacation package technologies;•certain of our products and online booking tools for corporate travel;•portions of our private label vacation package technology; and•our extranet supplier connectivity functionality. Travelport and its affiliates may use these technologies as part of, or in support of, their own products or services, including in some cases to compete directly with us.The Master License Agreement permits Travelport to sublicense our intellectual property (other than our supplier link technology) to a party that is not an affiliate of Travelport, except that Travelport may not sublicense our intellectual property to a third party for a use that competes with our business, unless Travelport incorporates or uses our intellectual property with Travelport products or services to enhance or improve Travelport products or services (other than to provide our intellectual property to third parties on a stand-alone basis). Travelport and its affiliates are permitted to use our intellectual property to provide their own products and services to third parties that compete with us. With respect to our supplier link technology, Travelport has an unrestricted license. These Travelport rights could facilitate Travelport’s, its affiliates’ and third parties’ ability to compete with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.Our business and financial performance could be negatively impacted by adverse tax events.New sales, use, occupancy or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time. Such enactments could adversely affect our domestic and international business operations and our business and financial performance. Further, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us. These events could require us to pay additional tax amounts on a prospective or retroactive basis, as well as require us to pay fees, penalties and/or interest for past amounts deemed to be due. In addition, our revenue may decline because we may have to charge more for our products and services.New, changed, modified or newly interpreted or applied tax laws could also increase our compliance, operating and other costs, as well as the costs of our products or services. Further, these events could decrease the capital we have available to operate our business. Any or all of these events could adversely impact our business and financial performance.We and other providers of travel in the online travel industry are currently subject to various lawsuits related to hotel occupancy tax in numerous jurisdictions in the United States, and other jurisdictions may be considering similar lawsuits. An adverse ruling in the existing hotel occupancy tax cases could require us to pay tax retroactively and prospectively, and possibly penalties, interest and/or fees. We have also been contacted by several municipalities or other taxing bodies concerning our possible obligation with respect to local hotel occupancy or related taxes, and certain municipalities have begun audit proceedings and some have issued assessments against us. If we are found to be subject to the hotel occupancy tax ordinance by a taxing authority and we appeal the decision in court, certain jurisdictions may attempt to require us to provide financial security or pay the assessment to the municipality in order to challenge the tax assessment in court. The proliferation of new hotel occupancy tax cases or audit proceedings could result in substantial additional defense costs. These events could also adversely impact our business and financial performance. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.”Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.22