ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors could affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report because they could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Before you buy our common stock, you should know that investing in our common stock involves risks, including the risks described below. The risks that are highlighted here are not the only ones we face. If the adverse matters referred to in any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operations could be adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our Financial Results Depend Significantly Upon the Success of Our Existing and New Restaurants Future growth in our revenue and profits will depend on our ability to maintain or grow sales and efficiently manage costs in our existing and new restaurants. As of the date of this report, we have 11 corporate-owned and one franchised Bagger Dave’s locations and 33 DRH-owned BWW restaurants. The results achieved by our current restaurants may not be indicative of longer-term performance or the potential market acceptance of our restaurant concepts in other locations. Additionally, the success of one restaurant concept may not be indicative or predictive of the success of the other. The success of our restaurants depends principally upon generating and maintaining guest traffic and loyalty and achieving positive margins. Significant factors that might adversely affect guest traffic and loyalty and profit margins include: ● economic conditions, including housing market downturns, rising unemployment rates, lower disposable income, credit conditions, fuel prices and consumer confidence and other events or factors that adversely affect consumer spending in the markets we serve; ● competition in the restaurant industry, particularly in the casual and fast-casual dining segments; ● changes in consumer preferences; ● our guests’ failure to accept menu price increases that we may make to offset increases in certain operating costs; 10 ● our reputation and consumer perception of our concepts’ offerings in terms of quality, price, value, ambience and service; and ● our guests’ actual experiences from dining in our restaurants. Our restaurants are also susceptible to increases in certain key operating expenses that are either wholly or partially beyond our control, including: ● food and other raw materials costs, many of which we cannot effectively hedge; ● compensation costs, including wage, workers’ compensation, health care and other benefits expenses; ● rent expenses and construction, remodeling, maintenance and other costs under leases for our new and existing restaurants; ● compliance costs as a result of changes in regulatory or industry standards; ● energy, water and other utility costs; ● costs for insurance (including health, liability and workers’ compensation); ● information technology and other logistical costs; and ● expenses due to litigation against us. We May Not Be Able To Manage Our Growth Our expansion strategy will depend upon our ability to open and operate additional restaurants profitably. The opening of new restaurants will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others, the availability of management, restaurant staff, and other personnel, the cost and availability of suitable restaurant locations, cost-effective and timely planning, design and build out of restaurants, acceptable leasing terms, acceptable financing, and securing required governmental permits. Although we have formulated our business plans and expansion strategies based on certain estimates and assumptions we believe are reasonable, we anticipate that we will be subject to changing conditions that will cause certain of these estimates and assumptions to be incorrect. For example, our restaurants may not open at the planned time due to factors beyond our control, including, among other factors, site selection, BWLD’s approval with respect to new BWW openings, negotiations with landlords, and construction or permitting delays. We expect that the Bagger Dave’s concept will be primarily responsible for future growth. As a result, the past success of the BWW concept may not be indicative of our future performance as a whole. We May Not Be Successful When Entering New Markets When expanding the BWW and our Bagger Dave's concepts, we will enter new markets in which we may have limited or no operating experience. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve success and/or profitability in our new markets or in our new restaurants. The success of these new restaurants will be affected by the different competitive conditions, consumer tastes, and discretionary spending patterns within the new markets, as well as by our ability to generate market awareness of the Bagger Dave's and BWW brands. New restaurants typically require several months of operation before achieving normal levels of profitability. When we enter highly competitive new markets or territories in which we have not yet established a market presence, the realization of our revenue targets and desired profit margins may be more susceptible to volatility and/or more prolonged than anticipated. Competition in the Restaurant Industry May Affect Our Ability to Compete Effectively The restaurant industry is intensely competitive. We believe we compete primarily with regional and local sports bars, burger establishments, casual dining concepts, and fast-casual establishments. Competition from “better burger” establishments has recently been particularly intense. Many of our direct and indirect competitors are well-established national, regional, or local chains with a greater market presence than us. Further, some competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than us. In addition, independent owners of local or regional establishments may enter the wing-based or burger-based restaurant businesses without significant barriers to entry and such establishments may provide price competition for our restaurants. Competition in the casual dining, fast-casual, and quick-service segments of the restaurant industry is expected to remain intense with respect to price, service, location, concept, and the type and quality of food. We also face intense competition for real estate sites, qualified management personnel, and hourly restaurant staff. 11 New Restaurants Added to Our Existing Markets May Take Sales From Existing Restaurants New restaurants added to our existing markets, whether by us or others, may take sales away from our existing restaurants. Because we intend to open restaurants in our existing markets, and others may intend the same, this may impact revenue earned by our existing restaurants. Higher-Than-Anticipated Costs Associated With the Opening of New Restaurants or With the Closing, Relocating, or Remodeling of Existing Restaurants May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations Our revenue and expenses may be significantly impacted by the location, number, and timing of the opening of new restaurants and the closing, relocating, and remodeling of existing restaurants. We incur substantial pre-opening expenses each time we open a new restaurant and will incur other expenses if we close, relocate or remodel existing restaurants. These expenses are generally higher when we open restaurants in new markets, but the costs of opening, closing, relocating, or remodeling any of our restaurants may be higher than anticipated. An increase in such expenses could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Future Acquisitions May Have Unanticipated Consequences That Could Harm Our Business and Our Financial Condition We may seek to selectively acquire existing BWW restaurants. To do so, we would need to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable acquisition terms, and obtain appropriate financing as needed. Any acquisitions we pursue, whether successfully completed or not, may involve risks, including: ● material adverse effects on our operating results, particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the acquisition as the acquired restaurants are integrated into our operations; ● customary closing and indemnification risks associated with any acquisition; ● funds used pursuing acquisitions we are ultimately unable to consummate because the transaction is subject to a right of first refusal in favor of our franchisor, BWLD; and ● diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Future acquisitions of existing restaurants, which may be accomplished through a cash purchase transaction, the issuance of our equity securities, or a combination of both, could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and impairment charges related to intangible assets, any of which could harm our business and financial condition. We May Suffer Negative Consequences if New Restaurants Do Not Open in a Timely Manner If we are unable to successfully open new restaurants in a timely manner, our revenue growth rate and profits may be adversely affected. We must open restaurants in a timely and profitable manner to successfully expand our business. In the past we have experienced delays in restaurant openings and we may face similar delays in the future. These delays may trigger material financial penalties assessed against us by BWLD as provided in our area development agreement. These delays may also not meet market expectations, which may negatively affect our stock price. Our ability to expand successfully and in a timely manner will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. A few of the factors are listed below: ● Locating and securing quality locations in new and existing markets; ● Negotiating acceptable leases or purchase agreements; ● Securing acceptable financing for new locations; ● Cost-effective and timely planning, design, and build-out of restaurants; ● Attracting, recruiting, training, and retaining qualified team members; ● Hiring reputable and satisfactory construction contractors; ● Competition in new and existing markets; ● Obtaining and maintaining required local, state, and federal government approvals and permits related to the construction of sites and the sale of food and alcoholic beverages; ● Creating brand awareness in new markets; and ● General economic conditions. 12 The Loss of Key Executives Could Affect Our Performance Our success depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of key executives and other team members. The loss of any of our executive officers could jeopardize our ability to meet our financial targets. In particular, we are highly dependent upon the services of T. Michael Ansley, David G. Burke, and Jason T. Curtis. We do not have employment agreements with such individuals or any of our other team members. Our inability to retain the full-time services of any of these people or to attract other qualified executives could have an adverse effect on us, and there would likely be a difficult transition period in finding suitable replacements for any of them. We May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Qualified Team Members to Operate and Manage Our Restaurants The success of our restaurants depends on our ability to attract, motivate, develop, and retain a sufficient number of qualified restaurant team members, including managers and hourly team members. The inability to recruit, develop, and retain these individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in high team member turnover in existing restaurants, thus increasing the cost to efficiently operate our restaurants. This could inhibit our expansion strategy and business performance and negatively impact our operating results. Fluctuations in the Cost of Food Could Impact Operating Results Our primary food products are fresh bone-in chicken wings, ground beef, and potatoes. Our food, beverage, and packaging costs could be significantly affected by increases in the cost of fresh chicken wings and ground beef, which can result from a number of factors, including but not limited to, seasonality, cost of corn and grain, animal disease, drought and other weather phenomena, increase in demand domestically and internationally, and other factors that may affect availability. Additionally, if there is a significant rise in the price of chicken wings or ground beef, and we are unable to successfully adjust menu prices or menu mix or otherwise make operational adjustments to account for the higher wing prices, our operating results could be adversely affected. We also depend on our franchisor, BWLD, as it relates to chicken wings, to negotiate prices and deliver product to us at a reasonable cost. Chicken wing prices per pound averaged $1.97 per pound in 2012, $0.76 higher than the average of $1.21 in 2011. BWLD currently purchases and secures for its franchisees chicken wings at market price. The market price for traditional wings reached its lowest price in several years during April 2011; since then, the market price has trended higher. Shortages or Interruptions in the Availability and Delivery of Food and Other Supplies May Increase Costs or Reduce Revenue Possible shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants caused by inclement weather, terrorist attacks, natural disasters such as floods, drought, and hurricanes, pandemics, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit in a tightened credit market, food safety warnings or advisories, or the prospect of such pronouncements, or other conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect the availability, quality, and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. Our inability to effectively manage supply chain risk could increase our costs and limit the availability of products critical to our restaurant operations. Our Success Depends Substantially on the Value of Our Brands and Unfavorable Publicity Could Harm Our Business Multi-unit restaurant businesses such as ours can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from complaints, litigation, or general publicity regarding poor food quality, food-borne illness, personal injury, food tampering, adverse health effects of consumption of various food products, or high-calorie foods (including obesity), or other concerns. Negative publicity from traditional media or online social network postings may also result from actual or alleged incidents or events taking place in our restaurants. There has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms and similar devices, including weblogs (blogs), social media websites, and other forms of Internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. Consumers value readily available information concerning goods and services that they have or plan to purchase, and may act on such information without further investigation or authentication. The availability of information on social media platforms is virtually immediate as is its impact. Many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants can post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. The opportunity for dissemination of information, including inaccurate information, is seemingly limitless and readily available. Information concerning our Company may be posted on such platforms at any time. Information posted may be adverse to our interests or may be inaccurate, each of which may harm our performance, prospects, or business. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. Such platforms also could be used for dissemination of trade secret information, compromising valuable company assets. In sum, the dissemination of information online could harm our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information’s accuracy. Regardless of whether any public allegations or complaints are valid, unfavorable publicity relating to a number of our restaurants, or only to a single restaurant, could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand. Adverse publicity and its effect on overall consumer perceptions of food safety, or our failure to respond effectively to adverse publicity, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We must protect and grow the value of our brands to continue to be successful in the future. Any incident that erodes consumer trust in or affinity for our brands could significantly reduce their value. If consumers perceive or experience a reduction in food quality, service, ambiance, or in any way believe we failed to deliver a consistently positive experience, the value of our brands could suffer 13 Increases in Our Compensation Costs, Including as a Result of Changes in Government Regulation, Could Slow Our Growth or Harm Our Business We are subject to a wide range of compensation costs. Because our compensation costs are, as a percentage of revenue, higher than other industries, we may be significantly harmed by compensation cost increases. Unfavorable fluctuations in market conditions, availability of such insurance, or changes in state and/or federal regulations could significantly increase our insurance premiums. In addition, we are subject to the risk of employment-related litigation at both the state and federal levels, including claims styled as class action lawsuits, which are more costly to defend. Also, some employment-related claims in the area of wage and hour disputes are not insurable risks. Significant increases in health care costs may also continue to occur, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to effectively contain those costs. Further, we are continuing to assess the impact of recently-adopted federal health care legislation on our health care benefit costs, and significant increases in such costs could adversely impact our operating results. In addition, many of our restaurant personnel are hourly team members subject to various minimum wage requirements or changes to existing tip credit laws. Mandated increases in minimum wage levels and changes to the tip credit laws, which dictate the amounts an employer is permitted to assume an team member receives in tips when calculating the team member’s hourly wage for minimum wage compliance purposes, have recently been and continue to be proposed and implemented at both federal and state government levels. Continued minimum wage increases or changes to allowable tip credits may further increase our compensation costs or effective tax rate. Various states in which we operate are considering or have already adopted new immigration laws, and the U.S. Congress and Department of Homeland Security from time to time consider or implement changes to federal immigration laws, regulations, or enforcement programs as well. Some of these changes may increase our obligations for compliance and oversight, which could subject us to additional costs and make our hiring process more cumbersome, or reduce the availability of potential team members. Although we require all team members to provide us with government-specified documentation evidencing their employment eligibility, some of our team members may, without our knowledge, be unauthorized team members. Unauthorized team members are subject to deportation and may subject us to fines or penalties, and if any of our team members are found to be unauthorized, we could experience adverse publicity that negatively impacts our brand and may make it more difficult to hire and keep qualified team members. Termination of a significant number of team members that, unbeknownst to us, were unauthorized team members may disrupt our operations, cause temporary increases in our compensation costs as we train new team members and result in additional adverse publicity. Our financial performance could be materially harmed as a result of any of these factors. Changes in Public Health Concerns and Legislation and Regulations Requiring the Provision of Nutritional Information May Impact Our Performance Government regulation and consumer eating habits may impact our business as a result of changes in attitudes regarding diet and health or new information regarding the health effects of consuming our menu offerings. These changes have resulted in, and may continue to result in, the enactment of laws and regulations that impact the ingredients and nutritional content of our menu offerings, or laws and regulations requiring us to disclose the nutritional content of our food offerings. For example, a number of states, counties, and cities have enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to disclose certain nutritional information available to guests, or have enacted legislation restricting the use of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordability Act of 2010 (the “PPACA”), enacted in March 2010, requires chain restaurants with 20 or more locations in the U.S. to comply with federal nutritional disclosure requirements. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration indicated that it intends to issue final regulations by April 2013. Although the federal legislation is intended to preempt conflicting state or local laws on nutrition labeling, until we are required to comply with the federal law, we will be subject to a patchwork of state and local laws and regulations regarding nutritional content disclosure requirements. Many of these requirements are inconsistent or are interpreted differently from one jurisdiction to another. The effect of such labeling requirements on consumer choices, if any, is unclear at this time. We cannot make any assurances regarding our ability to effectively respond to changes in consumer health perceptions or our ability to successfully implement the nutrient content disclosure requirements and to adapt our menu offerings to trends in eating habits. The imposition of menu-labeling laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position, as well as the restaurant industry in general. Multiple jurisdictions in which we operate could adopt recently enacted new requirements that require us to adopt and implement a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (“HACCP”) system for managing food safety and quality. HACCP refers to a management system in which food safety is addressed through the analysis and control of potential hazards from production, procurement, and handling, to manufacturing, distribution, and consumption of the finished product. We expect to incur certain costs to comply with these regulations and these costs may be more than we anticipate. If we fail to comply with these laws or regulations, our business could experience a material adverse effect. Further, growing movements to change laws relating to alcohol may result in a decline in alcohol consumption at our restaurants or increase the number of dram shop claims made against us, either of which may negatively impact operations or result in the loss of liquor licenses. 14 Changes in Consumer Preferences or Discretionary Consumer Spending Could Harm Our Performance Our success depends, in part, upon the continued popularity of our chicken and boneless wings, hamburgers and turkey burgers, other food and beverage items, and the appeal of our restaurant concepts. We also depend on trends toward consumers eating away from home. Shifts in these consumer preferences could negatively affect our future profitability. Such shifts could be based on health concerns related to the cholesterol, carbohydrate, fat, calorie, or salt content of certain food items, including items featured on our menu. Negative publicity over the health aspects of such food items may adversely affect consumer demand for our menu items and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants, which could materially harm our business. In addition, our success depends, to a significant extent, on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, general economic conditions (including the continuing effects of the recent recession), disposable consumer income, and consumer confidence. The recent recession, coupled with high unemployment rates, reduced home values, increases in home foreclosures, investment losses, personal bankruptcies, rising fuel prices, and reduced access to credit and reduced consumer confidence has impacted consumers’ ability and willingness to spend discretionary dollars. Economic conditions may remain volatile and may continue to repress consumer confidence and discretionary spending for the near term. If the weak economy continues for a prolonged period of time or worsens, guest traffic could be adversely impacted if our guests choose to dine out less frequently or reduce the amount they spend on meals while dining out. A decline in consumer spending or in economic conditions could reduce guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, or cash flow. Actions by Our Franchisor Could Negatively Affect Our Business and Operating Results Our DRH-owned BWW restaurant operations depend, in part, on decisions made by our franchisor, BWLD, including changes of distributors, food menu items and prices, policies and procedures, and advertising programs. Business decisions made by our franchisor could adversely impact our operating performance and profitability. Under our area development agreement, BWLD has the right to immediately terminate the area development agreement if, among other things, we are unable to comply with the development schedule or if one of the Franchise Agreements entered into pursuant to the area development agreement is terminated. Termination of the area development agreement could adversely affect our growth strategy and, in turn, our financial condition. Additionally, the area development agreement and the individual Franchise Agreements provide BWLD with the authority to approve the location selected for our future BWLD franchises, as well as approve the design of the individual restaurant. BWLD must give its consent prior to the opening of a new BWW restaurant and, once the restaurant is open, we are subject to various operational requirements, including the use of specific suppliers and products. Delays in the approval of our locations or pre-opening approval, as well as changes to the operational requirements, may impact our operating performance. Our Operating Results May Fluctuate Due to the Timing of Special Events Our operating results depend, in part, on special events, such as the Super Bowl® and other sporting events viewed by our guests in our restaurants, including those sponsored by the National Football League, Major League Baseball, National Basketball Association, National Hockey League, and National Collegiate Athletic Association. Interruptions in the viewing of these professional sporting league events due to strikes, lockouts, or labor/compensation disputes may impact our business and operating results. Additionally, our results are subject to fluctuations based on the dates of sporting events and their availability for viewing through broadcast, satellite, and cable networks. Historically, sales in most of our restaurants have been higher during fall and winter months based on the relative popularity and extent of national, regional, and local sporting and other events in the geographic regions in which we currently operate. Our Inability to Renew Existing Leases or Enter Into New Leases For New or Relocated Restaurants on Favorable Terms May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations As of the date of this report, 41 of our 44 corporate-owned restaurants are located on leased premises and are subject to varying lease-specific arrangements. For example, some of the leases require base rent that is subject to increase based on market factors, and other leases include base rent with specified periodic increases. Some leases are subject to renewals which could involve substantial increases. Additionally, a few leases require contingent rent based on a percentage of gross sales. Should we have any leases that expire in the future, we will evaluate the desirability of renewing such leases. While we currently expect to pursue all renewal options, no guarantee can be given that such leases will be renewed or, if renewed, that rents will not increase substantially. The success of our restaurants depends in large part on their leased locations. As demographic and economic patterns change, current leased locations may or may not continue to be attractive or profitable. Possible declines in trade areas where our restaurants are located or adverse economic conditions in surrounding areas could result in reduced revenue in those locations. In addition, desirable lease locations for new restaurant openings or for the relocation of existing restaurants may not be available at an acceptable cost when we identify a particular opportunity for a new restaurant or relocation. Economic Conditions Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Landlords in Retail Centers in Which We Are Located Our landlords may be unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements, resulting in failures to pay required construction contributions or satisfy other lease covenants to us. If our landlords fail to satisfy required co-tenancies, such failures may result in us terminating leases or delaying openings in these locations. Also, decreases in total tenant occupancy in retail centers in which we are located may affect guest traffic at our restaurants. All of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations. 15 A Decline in Visitors to Any of the Business Districts Near the Locations of Our Restaurants Could Negatively Affect Our Restaurant Sales Some of our restaurants are located near high-activity areas such as retail centers, big-box shopping centers, and entertainment centers. We depend on high visitor rates at these businesses to attract guests to our restaurants. If visitors to these centers decline due to economic conditions, closure of big-box retailers, road construction, changes in consumer preferences or shopping patterns, changes in discretionary consumer spending or otherwise, our restaurant sales in these areas could decline significantly and adversely affect the results of our operations. Many of Our Restaurants are Concentrated in Local or Regional Areas, We are Susceptible to Economic and Other Trends and Developments, Including Adverse Weather Conditions, in These Areas Our financial performance is currently highly dependent on restaurants located in Florida, Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan. As a result, adverse economic conditions in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. In recent years, certain of these states have been more negatively impacted by the housing decline, high unemployment rates, and the overall economic crisis than other geographic areas. In addition, other regional occurrences such as local strikes, terrorist attacks, increases in energy prices, adverse weather conditions, hurricanes, droughts, or other natural or man-made disasters. In particular, adverse weather conditions can impact guest traffic at our restaurants, cause the temporary underutilization of certain seating areas, and, in more severe cases, cause temporary restaurant closures, sometimes for prolonged periods. As of the date of December 30, 2012, approximately 77.0% of our total restaurants are located in Illinois, Indiana and Michigan, which are particularly susceptible to snowfall, and approximately 23.0% of our total restaurants are located in Florida, which is particularly susceptible to hurricanes. Legal Actions Could Have an Adverse Effect on Us We could face legal action from government agencies, team members, guests, or other parties. Many state and federal laws govern our industry, and if we fail to comply with these laws, we could be liable for damages or penalties. Further, we may face litigation from guests alleging that we were responsible for an illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants, or alleging that we are not complying with regulations governing our food quality or operations. We may also face employment-related litigation, including claims of age discrimination, sexual harassment, gender discrimination, immigration violations, or other local, state, and federal labor law violations. We May Not Be Able to Obtain and Maintain Licenses and Permits Necessary to Operate Our Restaurants The restaurant industry is subject to various federal, state, and local government licensure and permitting requirements, including those relating to the sale of food and alcoholic beverages. The failure to obtain and maintain these licenses, permits, and approvals, including food and liquor licenses, could adversely affect our operating results. Difficulties or failure to obtain any required licenses, permits, or other government approvals could delay or result in our decision to cancel the opening of new restaurants. Local authorities may revoke, suspend, or deny renewal of our food and liquor licenses if they determine that our conduct violates applicable regulations. The Sale of Alcoholic Beverages at Our Restaurants Subjects Us to Additional Regulations and Potential Liability For fiscal year 2012, approximately 20.2% of our consolidated restaurant sales were attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. Because our restaurants sell alcoholic beverages, we are required to comply with the alcohol licensing requirements of the federal government, states, and municipalities where our restaurants are located. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require applications to state authorities and, in certain locations, county and municipal authorities for a license and permit to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises and to provide service for extended hours and on Sundays. Typically, the licenses are renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of the daily operations of the restaurants, including minimum age of guests and team members, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, storage, and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. If we fail to comply with federal, state, or local regulations, our licenses may be revoked and we may be forced to terminate the sale of alcoholic beverages at one or more of our restaurants In certain states, we are subject to “dram shop” statutes, which generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Some dram shop litigation against restaurant companies has resulted in significant judgments, including punitive damages. We May Not Be Able to Protect Our Trademarks, Service Marks, and Trade Secrets We place considerable value on our trademarks, service marks, and trade secrets. We intend to actively enforce and defend our intellectual property, although we may not always be successful. We attempt to protect our recipes as trade secrets by, among other things, requiring confidentiality agreements with our suppliers and executive officers. However, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully enforce our rights under our marks or prevent competitors from misappropriating our recipes, nor can we be sure that out methods of safeguarding our information are adequate and effective. We also cannot be sure that our marks are valuable; that using our marks does not, or will not, violate others' marks; that the registrations of our marks would be upheld if challenged; or that we would not be prevented from using our marks in areas of the country where others might have already established rights to them. Any of these uncertainties could have an adverse effect on us and our expansion strategy. 16 We Are Dependent on Information Technology and Any Material Failure of That Technology Could Impair Our Ability to Efficiently Operate Our Business We rely on information systems across our operations, including, for example, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, collection of cash, payment of obligations, and various other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with maintenance, upgrading or transitioning to replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in guest service and reduce efficiency in our operations. Significant capital investments might be required to remediate any problems. Our Ability to Raise Capital in the Future May Be Limited, Which Could Adversely Impact Our Business Changes in our restaurant operations, lower than anticipated restaurant sales, increased food or compensation costs, increased property expenses, acceleration of our expansion plans, or other events, including those described in this report, may cause us to seek additional debt or equity financing on an accelerated basis. Financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, and our failure to raise capital when needed could negatively impact our restaurant growth plans as well as our financial condition and the results of operations. Additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock. Debt financing may involve significant cash payment obligations, covenants, and financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate and grow our business There Can Be No Assurances That, in the Future, We Will Be in Compliance With All Covenants of Our Current or Future Debt Agreements or That Our Lenders Will Waive Any Violations of Such Covenants Non-compliance with our debt covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Non-compliance may result in us being in default under our debt agreements, which could cause a substantial financial burden by requiring us to repay our debt earlier than otherwise anticipated. Our Current Insurance May Not Provide Adequate Levels of Coverage Against Claims We currently maintain insurance that is customary and required in our franchise agreements and leases. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure against, such as losses due to natural disasters. Such damages could have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of operations. Additionally, there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current coverage at acceptable premium rates or that any coverage will be available to us in the future. An Impairment in the Carrying Value of Our Fixed Assets and or Intangible Assets Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Consolidated Results of Operations We evaluate the useful lives of our fixed assets and intangible assets to determine if they are definite- or indefinite-lived. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required maintenance expenditures, and the expected lives of other related groups of assets. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of intangible assets become impaired, there could be an adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. In connection with the acquisition of the Indiana and Illinois Entities, an amount was recorded as goodwill, which will be tested for impairment on a periodic basis. We cannot accurately predict the likelihood or amount and timing of any potential impairment of this goodwill. An impairment of goodwill of the Indiana and Illinois Entities could adversely affect our results of operations. We May Incur Costs Resulting From Security Risks We Face in Connection With Our Electronic Processing and Transmission of Confidential Guest Information We accept electronic payment cards from our guests in our restaurants. For December 30, 2012, approximately 65.0% of our sales were attributable to credit/debit card transactions, and credit/debit card usage could continue to increase. A number of restaurant operators and retailers have experienced actual or potential security breaches in which credit/debit card information may have been stolen. While we have taken reasonable steps to prevent the occurrence of security breaches in this respect, we may in the future become subject to claims for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of credit/debit card information, and we may also be subject to lawsuits or other proceedings in the future relating to these types of incidents. Proceedings related to theft of credit/debit card information may be brought by payment card providers, banks, and credit unions that issue cards, cardholders (either individually or as part of a class action lawsuit), and federal and state regulators. Any such proceedings could distract our management team members from running our business and cause us to incur significant unplanned losses and expenses. We also receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and team members. The use of this information by us is regulated at the federal and state levels. If our security and information systems are compromised or our team members fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as the results of operations, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, our ability to accept credit/debit cards as payment in our restaurants and online depends on us maintaining our compliance status with standards set by the PCI Security Standards Council. These standards, set by a consortium of the major credit card companies, require certain levels of system security and procedures to protect our guests’ credit/debit card information as well as other personal information. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change over time, and compliance with those changes may result in cost increases due to necessary system and process changes. 17 Failure to Establish and Maintain Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Could Harm Our Business and Financial Results Our management team members are responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A significant financial reporting failure or material weakness in internal control over financial reporting could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our stock. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Stock There Can Be No Assurance That an Active Trading Market for Shares of Our Common Stock Will Develop Our common stock is currently traded on the OTCQB and there has historically been a minimal, relatively inactive public market for our common stock. We have applied to have our common stock approved for listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We cannot be certain that a more active public market for our common stock will develop or, if developed, the extent to which investor interest in our common stock will sustain active trading or how liquid such a market might be in the future. It is possible that an active trading market, if established, will not continue, and there can be no assurance as to the price at which our common stock will trade. If Securities or Industry Analysts Do Not Publish Research or Publish Inaccurate or Unfavorable Research About Our Business, Our Stock Price and Trading Volume Could Decline The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts may publish about us or our business. We are not currently the subject of any research analyst coverage. The absence of research analyst coverage can adversely affect the market value and liquidity of an equity security, and if no securities or industry analysts cover our company in the future, the trading price for our common stock could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if we do receive research analyst coverage, the coverage could be negative. In particular, if one or more of the analysts who covered us downgraded our common stock or published inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceased coverage of us or failed to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Anti-Takeover Provisions in Our Charter Documents Could Make an Acquisition of Us More Difficult and Limit Attempts by Our Stockholders to Replace or Remove Our Current Directors Management, Which May Result in a Decrease in the Market Price of Our Common Stock Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation (the “Articles”) and Amended and Restated Bylaws (the “Bylaws”) may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our Articles and Bylaws contain provisions that: ● provide that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the Board; ● provide that all vacancies, including newly created directorships, may, except as otherwise required by law, be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum; ● provide that stockholders seeking to present proposals before a meeting of stockholders or to nominate candidates for election as directors at a meeting of stockholders must provide notice in writing in a timely manner, and also specify requirements as to the form and content of a stockholder’s notice; ● do not provide for cumulative voting rights (therefore allowing the holders of a majority of the shares of common stock entitled to vote in any election of directors to elect all of the directors standing for election, if they should so choose); ● authorize the Board, acting by majority vote, to amend portions of the Bylaws adopted by the stockholders, except to the extent the stockholders have specified portions of the Bylaws that cannot be amended by the Board; ● provide that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the Board, our CEO, the Board pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors or holders of shares entitled to cast not less than 25.0% of the votes at the meeting; and 18 ● authorize our Board to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights, and powers of such shares. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace our Board, which is responsible for appointing the members of management. The Price of Our Common Stock May Be Volatile and You Could Lose All or Part of Your Investment Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for your shares. The stock market in general has been highly volatile, particularly over the past five years. As a result, the market price of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile. You may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of your stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects, and could lose part or all of your investment. The price of our common stock also could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors specific to our business, including those described in this section and elsewhere in this report. Future Sales of Our Common Stock by Our Existing Stockholders Could Cause Our Stock Price to Decline If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell shares of our common stock could also depress the market price of our common stock. Stockholders holding an aggregate of 16,025,614 shares are currently subject to lock-up agreements in connection with a registered offering that we are conducting that restrict their ability to transfer their shares of our common stock. The market price of shares of our common stock may decrease significantly when the restrictions on resale lapse for certain of our existing stockholders. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, and may also cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our shares of common stock. Our Current Principal Stockholder Owns a Large Percentage of Our Voting Stock, Which Allows Him to Control Substantially All Matters Requiring Stockholder Approval T. Michael Ansley, our President, CEO, Chairman and founder, is currently the beneficial owner of approximately 69.8% of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Ansley’s beneficial ownership includes 11,113,600 shares owned directly, 9,000 shares owned indirectly as custodian for his children’s UGMA accounts, options exercisable within 60 days of March 7, 2013 to purchase 50,000 shares, 37,500 shares of restricted stock, and 2,104,000 shares over which he has sole voting power but does not have record ownership. In order to consolidate voting authority among family members and for voting expediency, Thomas Ansley and Mark Ansley, father and brother of T. Michael Ansley, respectively, entered into an Amended and Restated Voting Agreement granting T. Michael Ansley proxy authority to vote their shares, in his sole discretion. As result, T. Michael Ansley, will be able to exert significant voting influence over fundamental and significant corporate matters and transactions. He may have significant influence over a decision to enter into any corporate transaction and has the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders, regardless of whether or not our other stockholders believe that such transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control or other business combination, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. Since We Do Not Expect to Pay Any Dividends For the Foreseeable Future, Holders of Our Common Stock May Be Forced to Sell Their Stock in Order to Obtain a Return on Their Investment We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to reinvest any earnings to finance our restaurant operations and growth plans. Accordingly, stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only likely way to realize any return on their investment. As a result, investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Possible Issuance of Additional Shares Without Stockholder Approval Could Dilute Stockholders As of March 27, 2013, we have an aggregate of 19,019,525 shares of common stock outstanding and 80,980,475 shares of common stock authorized but unissued. We also have 10,000,000 shares of authorized, but unissued, preferred stock. Our Board has the authority to issue any or all of the shares of preferred stock, including the authority to establish one or more series, and to fix the powers, preferences, rights, and limitations of such class or series, without seeking stockholder approval. If any such shares are issued in the future, they would further dilute the percentage ownership of our common stock held by our stockholders. 19 Our Initial Application to List Our Common Stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market May Not Be Approved and Even if it is Approved, There is No Guarantee That We Will Be Able to Maintain Our Listing on NASDAQ Our common stock is currently traded on the OTCQB, but we have applied to have our common stock listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. There is no guarantee that NASDAQ will approve our initial listing application or that we will be able to remedy any problems identified by NASDAQ that would prevent our listing. Additionally, even if we are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we will be required to comply with certain quantitative and qualitative continued listing requirements, including a minimum bid price and corporate governance requirements. If we fail to meet these continued listing requirements, we may receive notification from NASDAQ of such failure, which must be publicly filed, and we could eventually be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. We Incur Significant Costs as a Result of Operating as a Public Company, and Our Management is Required to Devote Substantial Time to Compliance Initiatives As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and NASDAQ, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Our team members devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations result in increased legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming and costly. If we fail to comply, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which would entail expenditure of additional financial and management resources. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 