ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of factors that might cause our actual results to differ significantly from the results reflected by the forward-looking statements contained herein. In addition to factors generally affecting the political, economic and competitive conditions in the United States and abroad, such factors include those set forth below. Investors should consider the following factors before investing in our Company. The current economic conditions and uncertain future outlook, including the credit and liquidity crisis in the financial markets and the continued deterioration in consumer confidence and spending, may continue to negatively impact our business and results of operations. As widely reported, financial and credit markets in the United States and globally have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption in recent months, which has resulted in, among other things, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability and a widespread reduction in business activity and consumer spending and confidence. In 2008, these economic conditions negatively impacted our business and our results of operations. Any continuation or further deterioration in the current economic conditions, or any prolonged global, national or regional recession, may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. The current adverse market conditions, including the tightening of credit in financial markets, negatively impacts the discretionary spending of our consumers and may result in a decrease in sales or demand for our products. Similarly, these conditions may negatively impact the financial and operating condition of our wholesale customer base, or their ability to obtain credit, either of which in turn could cause them to reduce or delay their purchases of our products and increase our exposure to losses from bad debts. Similarly, these conditions could also increase the likelihood that one or more of our wholesale customers may file for bankruptcy or similar protection from creditors, which also may result in a loss of sales and increase our exposure to bad debt. From a financing perspective, we believe that we currently have sufficient liquidity to support the ongoing activities of our business, service our existing debt and invest in future growth opportunities. While the existing conditions have therefore not currently impacted our ability to finance our operations, the continuation or further deterioration of the unprecedented instability and tightening of the credit markets may adversely affect our ability to access the credit market and to obtain any additional financing or refinancing on satisfactory terms or at all. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the ongoing disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the United States and other countries, nor are we able to predict the long-term impact of these conditions on our operations. Counterparties to our secured credit facility and interest rate swaps may not be able to fulfill their obligations due to disruptions in the global financial and credit markets. As a result of concerns about the stability of the financial and credit markets and the strength of counterparties during this challenging global macroeconomic environment, many financial institutions have reduced, and in some instances ceased to provide, funding to borrowers. In our case, Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc. (“LCP”), one of the lenders under our $125 million senior secured credit facility (the “Credit Facility”), and who also serves as the Administrative Agent thereunder, of the senior secured credit facility “Credit Facility” declared bankruptcy in September 2008. LCP’s share of the Credit Facility was 12% or $15.0 million of the total funds available to 7 Table of Contents us under the Credit Facility. As a result of the bankruptcy, our ability to draw upon that portion of the Credit Facility has been reduced. To date, we have not secured substitute financing. If we are unable to secure additional or substitute funding from other parties, our Credit Facility would be effectively reduced from $125.0 million to $110.0 million. Based upon information available to us, we have no indication that other financial institutions syndicated under our Credit Facility would be unable to fulfill their commitments to us. However, if additional counterparties were to become unable to fulfill those obligations, that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, we have entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the variability of interest payments associated with our Credit Facility. We may be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on these instruments. Continued turbulence is the global credit markets and the U.S. economy may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have been required to recognize a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges against goodwill or intangible assets in the future. At January 3, 2009, the net carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets totaled approximately $643.8 million and $308.9 million respectively. Our amortizing intangible assets are subject to impairment testing in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets”, and our non-amortizing goodwill and tradenames are subject to impairment tests in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Intangible Assets.” We review the carrying value of our intangible assets and goodwill for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable, at least annually for our goodwill and tradnames. Significant negative industry or economic trends, including disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in the use of our intangible assets, and mergers and acquisitions could result in an impairment charge for any of our intangible assets, goodwill or other long-lived assets. We completed our annual impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as of November 1, 2008. As a result of these analyses we recorded impairment charges of $375.2 million and $87.4 million related to our goodwill and tradenames, respectively during the fourth quarter ended January 3, 2009. In the impairment analyses we used certain estimates and assumptions, including a combination of market-based and income-based approaches, each of which were weighted at 50% for the impairment test performed as of November 1, 2008. The market-based approach estimates fair value by applying multiples of potential earnings, such as EBITDA and revenue, of publicly traded comparable companies. We believe this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value using multiples from companies with operations and economic characteristics similar to our reporting units. The income-based approach is based on projected future debt-free cash flow that is discounted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk of the future cash flows. We believe this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the reporting units expected long-term operations and cash flow performance. The income-based approach is based on future projections of operating results and cash flows. These projections are discounted to present value using a weighted average cost of capital for market participants, who are generally thought to be industry participants. The future projections are based on both past performance and the projections and assumptions used in our current operating plan. Such assumptions are subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions and could result in additional impairment charges. Further, if the economic market conditions continue to worsen and our estimated future discounted cash flows decrease further we may incur additional impairment charges. Additional impairment charges related to our goodwill, tradenames or other intangible assets could have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. After giving effect to the Transactions and related use of proceeds, we have a substantial amount of debt, which requires significant interest and principal payments. Subject to the limits contained in the indentures governing our senior notes and our senior subordinated notes and our senior secured credit facility, we may be able to incur additional debt from time to time, including drawing on our senior secured revolving credit facility, to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our business associated with our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences to the holders of the notes, including the following: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the notes and our other debt; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments on our and our subsidiaries’ debt, which would reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industry in which we operate; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our less leveraged competitors; • increasing our vulnerability to both general and industry–specific adverse economic conditions; and • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements and increasing our cost of borrowing. We and/or our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future in addition to our notes and our senior secured credit facility. The addition of further debt to our current debt levels could intensify the leverage–related risks that we now face. Our debt agreements contain restrictions on our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an acceleration of our repayment terms. The credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our notes contain, and agreements governing future debt issuances may contain, covenants that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to engage in other transactions or business activities that may be important to our growth strategy or otherwise important to us. The credit agreement and the indentures restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or make other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; • make investments or other specified restricted payments; • create liens; • sell assets and subsidiary stock; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and 8 Table of Contents • enter into mergers, consolidations and sales of substantially all assets. In addition, the credit agreement related to our senior secured credit facility requires us to satisfy a senior secured leverage ratio and to repay outstanding borrowings under such facility with proceeds we receive from certain sales of property or assets and specified future debt offerings. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with such covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. Any breach of the covenants in the credit agreement or the indentures could result in a default of the obligations under such debt and cause a default under other debt. If there were an event of default under the credit agreement related to our senior secured credit facility that was not cured or waived, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the borrowings under our senior secured credit facility to be due and payable immediately. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and our obligations under the notes if accelerated upon an event of default. If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our senior secured credit facility, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could institute foreclosure proceedings against the assets securing borrowings under our senior secured credit facility. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash from our future operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or future borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, or from other sources, may not be available to us in an amount sufficient, to enable us to repay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the notes restrict our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from such sales. Additionally, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, it could impede the implementation of our business strategy or prevent us from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business. The interests of our controlling stockholders may conflict with the interests of the noteholders. Private equity funds managed by Madison Dearborn indirectly own substantially all of our common stock. The interests of these funds as equity holders may conflict with the interests of the noteholders. The controlling stockholders may have an incentive to increase the value of their investment or cause us to distribute funds to the detriment of our financial condition and affect our ability to make payments on the outstanding notes. In addition, these funds have the power to elect a majority of our Board of Directors and appoint new officers and management and, therefore, effectively control many other major decisions regarding our operations. Three of our directors are employed by Madison Dearborn. Additionally, our controlling stockholders are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our controlling stockholders may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. If we fail to grow our business as planned, our future operating results may suffer. It will be difficult to maintain our historical growth rates. We intend to continue to pursue a long-term business strategy of increasing sales and earnings by expanding our retail and wholesale operations both in the United States and internationally. However, our ability to grow these businesses in the short-term, including during 2009, may be negatively impacted by the current economic conditions. Our ability to implement our growth strategy successfully will also be dependent in part on several factors beyond our control, including consumer preferences, and the competitive environment in the markets in which we compete, and we may not be able to achieve our planned growth or sustain our financial performance. Our ability to anticipate changes in the candle, home fragrance and giftware industries, and identify industry trends, will be critical factors in our ability to grow as planned and remain competitive. We expect that it will become more difficult to maintain our historical growth rate, which could negatively impact our operating margins and results of operations. New stores typically generate lower operating margin contributions than mature stores because fixed costs, as a percentage of sales, are higher and because pre-opening costs are fully expensed in the year of opening. In addition, our retail sales generate lower margins than our wholesale sales. Our wholesale business has grown by increasing sales to existing customers and by adding new customers. If we are not able to continue this, our sales growth and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, as we expand our wholesale business into new channels of trade that we believe to be appropriate, sales in some of these new channels may, for competitive reasons within the channels, generate lower margins than do our existing wholesale sales. Similarly, as we continue to broaden our product offerings in order to meet consumer demand, we may do so in part by adding products that have lower product margins than those of our core candle products. We may be unable to continue to open new stores successfully. Our retail strategy depends in large part on our ability to successfully open new stores in both existing and new geographic markets. For our growth strategy to be successful, we must identify and lease favorable store sites on favorable economic terms, hire and train managers and associates and adapt management and operational systems to meet the needs of our expanded operations. These tasks may be difficult to accomplish successfully and any changes in the availability of suitable real estate locations on acceptable terms could adversely impact our retail growth. If we are unable to open new stores as quickly as planned, then our future sales and profits could be materially adversely affected. Even if we succeed in opening new stores, these new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores. Also, our retail growth strategy includes opening new stores in markets where we already have a presence so we can take advantage of economies of scale in marketing, distribution and supervision costs, or the opening of new malls or centers in the market. However, these new stores may result in the loss of sales in existing stores in nearby areas, thereby negatively impacting our comparable store sales. A decrease in our retail comparable store sales will have an adverse impact on our cash flows and earnings. This is due to the fact that a significant portion of our expenses are comprised of fixed costs, such as lease payments, and our ability to decrease expenses in response to negative comparable store sales is limited in the short term. If comparable store sales decline it will negatively impact earnings. Our retail strategy also depends upon our ability to successfully renew the expiring leases of our profitable existing stores. If we are unable to do so at planned levels and upon favorable economic terms, then our future sales and profits could be negatively affected. We face significant competition in the giftware industry. This competition could cause our revenues or margins to fall short of expectations which could adversely affect our future operating results, financial condition and liquidity and our ability to continue to grow our business. We compete generally for the disposable income of consumers with other producers and retailers in the giftware industry. The giftware industry is highly competitive with a large number of both large and small participants and relatively low barriers to entry. Our products compete with other scented and unscented candle, home fragrance and personal care products and with other gifts within a comparable price range, like boxes of candy, flowers, wine, fine soap and related merchandise. Our retail stores compete primarily with specialty candle retailers and a variety of other retailers including department stores, gift stores and national specialty retailers that carry candles along with personal care items, giftware and houseware. In addition, while we 9 Table of Contents focus primarily on the premium scented candle segment, scented and unscented candles are also sold outside of that segment by a variety of retailers, including mass merchandisers. In our wholesale business, we compete with numerous manufacturers and importers of candles, home fragrance products and other home decor and gift items for the limited space available in our wholesale customer locations for the display and sale of such products to consumers. Some of our competitors are part of large, diversified companies which have greater financial resources and a wider range of product offerings than we do. Many of our competitors source their products from low cost manufacturers outside of the United States. This competitive environment could adversely affect our future revenues and profits, financial condition and liquidity and our ability to continue to grow our business. A material decline in consumers’ discretionary income could cause our sales and income to decline. Our results depend on consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Accordingly, we may experience declines in sales during periods of significant economic volatility and disruption such as the one we are currently experiencing, or during other economic downturns or periods of uncertainty like that which followed the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States or which result from the threat of war or the possibility of further terrorist attacks. Any material decline in the amount of discretionary spending could have a material adverse effect on our sales and income. Because we are not a diversified company and are primarily dependent upon one industry, we have less flexibility in reacting to unfavorable consumer trends, adverse economic conditions or business cycles. We rely primarily on the sale of premium scented candles and related products in the giftware industry. In the event that sales of these products decline or do not meet our expectations, we cannot rely on the sales of other products to offset such a shortfall. As a significant portion of our expenses is comprised of fixed costs, such as lease payments, our ability to decrease expenses in response to adverse business conditions is limited in the short term. As a result, unfavorable consumer trends, adverse economic conditions or changes in the business cycle could have a material and adverse impact on our earnings. If we lose our senior executive officers, or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our business could be disrupted and our financial performance could suffer. Our success is in part dependent upon the retention of our senior executive officers. If our senior executive officers become unable or unwilling to participate in our business, our future business and financial performance could be materially affected. In addition, as our business grows in size and complexity we must be able to continue to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel sufficient to allow us to adequately manage and grow our business. If we are unable to do so, our operating results could be negatively impacted. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain personnel as and when necessary in the future. Many aspects of our manufacturing and distribution facilities are customized for our business; as a result, the loss of one of these facilities would disrupt our operations. Approximately 68% of our 2008 sales were generated by products we manufactured at our manufacturing facility in Whately, Massachusetts and we rely primarily on our distribution facilities in South Deerfield, Massachusetts to distribute our products. Because most of our machinery is designed or customized by us to manufacture our products, and because we have strict quality control standards for our products, the loss of our manufacturing facility, due to natural disaster or otherwise, would materially affect our operations. Similarly, our distribution facilities rely upon customized machinery, systems and operations, the loss of which would materially affect our operations. Although our manufacturing and distribution facilities are adequately insured, if our facilities were destroyed we believe it would take up to twelve months to resume operations at a level equivalent to current operations. Seasonal, quarterly and other fluctuations in our business, and general industry and market conditions, could affect the market for our results of operations. Our sales and operating results vary from quarter to quarter. We have historically realized higher sales and operating income in our fourth quarter, particularly in our retail business, which accounts for a larger portion of our sales. We believe that this has been due primarily to an increase in giftware industry sales during the holiday season of the fourth quarter. In addition, in anticipation of increased holiday sales activity, we incur certain significant incremental expenses, including the hiring of a substantial number of temporary employees to supplement our existing workforce. As a result of this seasonality, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. In addition, we may also experience quarterly fluctuations in our sales and income depending on various factors, including, among other things, the number of new retail stores we open in a particular quarter, changes in the ordering patterns of our wholesale customers during a particular quarter, pricing and promotional activities of our competitors, and the mix of products sold. Most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense, advertising and promotional expense and employee wages and salaries, do not vary directly with sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales for a particular quarter are below our expectations, we might not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore a sales shortfall could have a disproportionate effect on our operating results for that quarter. Further, our comparable store sales from our retail business in a particular quarter could be adversely affected by competition, the opening nearby of new retail stores or wholesale locations, economic or other general conditions or our inability to execute a particular business strategy. As a result of these factors, we may report in the future sales, operating results or comparable store sales that do not match the expectations of analysts and investors. This could cause the price of the notes to decline. Sustained interruptions in the supply of products from overseas may affect our operating results. We source various accessories and other products from Asia. A sustained interruption of the operations of our suppliers, as a result of economic difficulties, the impact of health epidemics, natural disasters such as the 2004 tsunami or other factors, could have an adverse effect on our ability to receive timely shipments of certain of our products, which might in turn negatively impact our sales and operating results. Further increases in wax prices above the rate of inflation may negatively impact our cost of goods sold and margins. Any shortages in refined oil supplies could impact our wax supply. In the past several years, including 2007 and for most of 2008, significant increases in the price of crude oil have adversely impacted our transportation and freight costs and have contributed to significant increases in the cost of various raw materials, including wax which is a petroleum-based product. This in turn negatively impacts our cost of goods sold and margins. In addition, we believe that rising oil prices and corresponding increases in raw materials and transportation costs negatively impact not only our business but consumer sentiment and the economy at large. Continued weakness in consumer confidence and the macro-economic environment could negatively impact our sales and earnings. While oil prices have recently decreased significantly, we have not experienced as significant a reduction in our transportation and freight costs or in the price of various raw materials, including wax. Historically, the market price of wax has generally moved with inflation. However, in the past several years the price of wax has increased at a rate significantly above the rate of inflation. Despite the recent downward movement of oil prices, wax prices have remained at historically high levels. Future significant increases in wax prices could have an adverse affect on our cost of goods sold and could lower our margins. 10 Table of Contents In addition to the impact of increased wax prices, any shortages in refined oil supplies may impact our wax supply. For example, in 2005, due to hurricanes in the Gulf Coast region and the closing and disruption of oil refineries located there significantly limited our ability to source wax and negatively impacted our operations. While we experienced no supply issues in 2008, any future prolonged interruption or reduction in wax supplies could negatively impact our operations, sales and earnings. The loss or significant deterioration in the financial condition of a significant wholesale customer could negatively impact our sales and operating results. A significant deterioration in the financial condition of one of our major customers, or the loss of such a customer, could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability and cash flow to the extent that we are unable to offset any revenue losses with additional revenue from existing customers or by opening new accounts. We continually monitor and evaluate the credit status of our customers and attempt to adjust trade and credit terms as appropriate. However, a bankruptcy filing by a key customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In this regard, we note that on May 2, 2008 Linens ‘N Things (“Linens”) filed a petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. At the time of that filing we had an outstanding receivable balance due from Linens and are an unsecured creditor with respect to that receivable. As noted in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements we recorded a bad debt provision in the amount of $4.5 million during the quarter ended June 28, 2008 with respect to the pre-petition receivable due from Linens. Linens is now in the process of liquidating its assets. The loss of revenue from Linens as a result of these proceedings, if not offset in whole or in part by additional revenue from existing customers or from new accounts, could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. There are also various potential claims which may arise in connection with bankruptcy proceedings that, if filed and adversely decided, could potentially negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. For example, in connection with the Linens bankruptcy we received a letter dated December 19, 2008 from counsel to Linens Holding Co. and its affiliates, which letter alleges that, pursuant to Sections 547 and 550 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, we are required to return to Linens approximately $6.6 million in allegedly “preferential” transfers allegedly made to Yankee Candle during the 90-day period preceding the filing of the Linens bankruptcy cases. The letter also alleges that Yankee Candle is required to pay to Linens approximately $1.3 million on account of credits allegedly earned but not redeemed by Linens prior to the filing of the Linens bankruptcy cases. The letter offered to settle these claims and threatened legal action if settlement terms cannot be reached. We are currently evaluating these alleged claims with outside counsel. While we believe we have a number of strong potential defenses to all or a significant portion of these claims and plan to vigorously contest any action brought by Linens, we cannot at this time predict what the outcome of this matter would be if legal action were to be pursued by Linens. If any matter were to be brought by Linens and were decided in a manner adverse to us, it could materially adversely impact our results of operations. Given the current economic environment, there is an increased risk that additional wholesale customers could be forced to declare bankruptcy or significantly reduce their operations or purchases from us. The loss of one or more significant wholesale customers, or a significant reduction in their operations, could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Other factors may also cause our actual results to differ materially from our estimates and projections. In addition to the foregoing, there are other factors which may cause our actual results to differ materially from our estimates and projections. Such factors include the following: • changes in the general economic conditions in the United States including, but not limited to, consumer debt levels, financial market performance, interest rates, consumer sentiment, inflation, commodity prices, unemployment and other factors that impact consumer confidence and spending; • changes in levels of competition from our current competitors and potential new competition from both retail stores and alternative methods or channels of distribution; • loss of a significant vendor or prolonged disruption of product supply; • the successful introduction of new products and technologies in our product categories, including the frequency of such introductions, the level of consumer acceptance of new products and technologies, and their impact on demand for existing products and technologies; • the impact of changes in pricing and profit margins associated with our sourced products or raw materials; • changes in income tax laws or regulations, or in interpretations of existing income tax laws or regulations; • adverse outcomes from significant litigation matters; • the imposition of additional restrictions or regulations regarding the sale of products we offer; • changes in our ability to attract, retain and develop highly-qualified employees or changes in the cost or availability of a sufficient labor force to manage and support our operations; • changes in our ability to meet objectives with regard to business acquisitions or new business ventures; • the occurrence of severe weather events prohibiting or discouraging consumers from traveling to retail or wholesale locations; • the disruption of global, national or regional transportation systems; • the occurrence of certain material events including natural disasters, acts of terrorism, the outbreak of war or other significant national or international events; • our ability to react in a timely manner and maintain our critical business processes and information systems capabilities in a disaster recovery situation; and • changes in our ability to manage our existing computer systems and technology infrastructures, and our ability to implement successfully new computer systems and technology infrastructures. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 11 Table of Contents 