ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are a number of factors that might cause our actual results to differ significantly from the results reflected by the forward-looking statements contained herein. In addition to factors generally affecting the political, economic and competitive conditions in the United States and abroad, such factors include those set forth below. Investors should consider the following factors before investing in our common stock. Our substantial indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations After giving effect to the Transactions and related use of proceeds, we have a substantial amount of debt, which requires significant interest and principal payments. Subject to the limits contained in the indentures governing our senior notes and our senior subordinated notes and our senior secured credit facility, we may be able to incur additional debt from time to time, including drawing on our senior secured revolving credit facility, to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our business associated with our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences to the holders of the notes, including the following: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the notes and our other debt; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments on our and our subsidiaries’ debt, which would reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industry in which we operate; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our less leveraged competitors; • increasing our vulnerability to both general and industry–specific adverse economic conditions; and • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements and increasing our cost of borrowing. We and/or our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future in addition to our notes and our senior secured credit facility. The addition of further debt to our current debt levels could intensify the leverage–related risks that we now face. Our debt agreements contain restrictions on our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies, and our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. The credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our notes contain, and agreements governing future debt issuances may contain, covenants that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to engage in other transactions or business activities that may be important to our growth strategy or otherwise important to us. The credit agreement and the indentures restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: • incur additional debt; 10 Table of Contents • pay dividends or make other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; • make investments or other specified restricted payments; • create liens; • sell assets and subsidiary stock; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • enter into mergers, consolidations and sales of substantially all assets. In addition, the credit agreement related to our senior secured credit facility requires us to satisfy a senior secured leverage ratio and to repay outstanding borrowings under such facility with proceeds we receive from certain sales of property or assets and specified future debt offerings. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with such covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. Any breach of the covenants in the credit agreement or the indentures could result in a default of the obligations under such debt and cause a default under other debt. If there were an event of default under the credit agreement related to our senior secured credit facility that was not cured or waived, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the borrowings under our senior secured credit facility to be due and payable immediately. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and our obligations under the notes if accelerated upon an event of default. If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our senior secured credit facility, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could institute foreclosure proceedings against the assets securing borrowings under our senior secured credit facility. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash from our future operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or future borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, or from other sources, may not be available to us in an amount sufficient, to enable us to repay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the notes restrict our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from such sales. Additionally, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, it could impede the implementation of our business strategy or prevent us from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business. The interests of our controlling stockholders may conflict with the interests of the noteholders. Private equity funds managed by Madison Dearborn indirectly own substantially all of our common stock. The interests of these funds as equity holders may conflict with the interests of the noteholders. The controlling stockholders may have an incentive to increase the value of their investment or cause us to distribute funds to the detriment of our financial condition and affect our ability to make payments on the outstanding notes. In addition, these funds have the power to elect a majority of our Board of Directors and appoint new officers and management and, therefore, effectively control many other major decisions regarding our operations. Three of our directors are employed by Madison Dearborn. Additionally, our controlling stockholders are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and 11 Table of Contents hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our controlling stockholders may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. If we fail to grow our business as planned, our future operating results may suffer. As we grow, it will be difficult to maintain our historical growth rates. We intend to continue to pursue a business strategy of increasing sales and earnings by expanding our retail and wholesale operations both in the United States and internationally. Because our ability to implement our growth strategy successfully will be dependent in part on factors beyond our control, including consumer preferences, macro-economic conditions, the competitive environment in the markets in which we compete and other factors, we may not be able to achieve our planned growth or sustain our financial performance. Our ability to anticipate changes in the candle, home fragrance and giftware industries, and identify industry trends, will be critical factors in our ability to grow as planned and remain competitive. We expect that, as we continue to grow, it will become more difficult to maintain our historical growth rate, which could negatively impact our operating margins and results of operations. New stores typically generate lower operating margin contributions than mature stores because fixed costs, as a percentage of sales, are higher and because pre-opening costs are fully expensed in the year of opening. In addition, our retail sales generate lower margins than our wholesale sales. Our wholesale business has grown by increasing sales to existing customers and by adding new customers. If we are not able to continue this, our sales growth and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, as we expand our wholesale business into new channels of trade that we believe to be appropriate, sales in some of these new channels may, for competitive reasons within the channels, generate lower margins than do our existing wholesale sales. Similarly, as we continue to broaden our product offerings in order to meet consumer demand, we may do so in part by adding products that have lower product margins than those of our core candle products. We cannot assure you that we will continue to grow at a rate comparable to our historic growth rate or that our historic financial performance will continue as we grow. We may be unable to continue to open new stores successfully. Our retail growth strategy depends in large part on our ability to successfully open new stores in both existing and new geographic markets. For our growth strategy to be successful, we must identify and lease favorable store sites on favorable economic terms, hire and train managers and associates and adapt management and operational systems to meet the needs of our expanded operations. These tasks may be difficult to accomplish successfully and any changes in the availability of suitable real estate locations on acceptable terms could adversely impact our retail growth. If we are unable to open new stores as quickly as planned, then our future sales and profits could be materially adversely affected. Even if we succeed in opening new stores, these new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores. Also, our retail growth strategy includes opening new stores in markets where we already have a presence so we can take advantage of economies of scale in marketing, distribution and supervision costs, or the opening of new malls or centers in the market. However, these new stores may result in the loss of sales in existing stores in nearby areas, thereby negatively impacting our comparable store sales. A decrease in our retail comparable store sales will have an adverse impact on our cash flows and earnings. This is due to the fact that a significant portion of our expenses are comprised of fixed costs, such as lease payments, and our ability to decrease expenses in response to negative comparable store sales is limited in the short term. If comparable store sales decline it will negatively impact earnings. Our retail growth strategy also depends upon our ability to successfully renew the expiring leases of our profitable existing stores. If we are unable to do so at planned levels and upon favorable economic terms, then our future sales and profits could be negatively affected. We face significant competition in the giftware industry. This competition could cause our revenues or margins to fall short of expectations which could adversely affect our future operating results, financial condition and liquidity and our ability to continue to grow our business. We compete generally for the disposable income of consumers with other producers and retailers in the giftware industry. The giftware industry is highly competitive with a large number of both large and small participants and relatively low barriers to entry. Our products compete with other scented and unscented candle, home fragrance and personal care products and with other gifts within a comparable price range, like boxes of candy, flowers, wine, fine soap and related merchandise. Our retail 12 Table of Contents stores compete primarily with specialty candle retailers and a variety of other retailers including department stores, gift stores and national specialty retailers that carry candles along with personal care items, giftware and houseware. In addition, while we focus primarily on the premium scented candle segment, scented and unscented candles are also sold outside of that segment by a variety of retailers, including mass merchandisers. In our wholesale business, we compete with numerous manufacturers and importers of candles, home fragrance products and other home decor and gift items for the limited space available in our wholesale customer locations for the display and sale of such products to consumers. Some of our competitors are part of large, diversified companies which have greater financial resources and a wider range of product offerings than we do. Many of our competitors source their products from low cost manufacturers outside of the United States. This competitive environment could adversely affect our future revenues and profits, financial condition and liquidity and our ability to continue to grow our business. A material decline in consumers’ discretionary income could cause our sales and income to decline. Our results depend on consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Accordingly, we may experience declines in sales during economic downturns or during periods of uncertainty like that which followed the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States or which result from the threat of war or the possibility of further terrorist attacks. Any material decline in the amount of discretionary spending could have a material adverse effect on our sales and income. Because we are not a diversified company and are effectively dependent upon one industry, we have less flexibility in reacting to unfavorable consumer trends, adverse economic conditions or business cycles. We rely primarily on the sale of premium scented candles and related products in the giftware industry. In the event that sales of these products decline or do not meet our expectations, we cannot rely on the sales of other products to offset such a shortfall. As a significant portion of our expenses is comprised of fixed costs, such as lease payments, our ability to decrease expenses in response to adverse business conditions is limited in the short term. As a result, unfavorable consumer trends, adverse economic conditions or changes in the business cycle could have a material and adverse impact on our earnings. If we lose our senior executive officers, or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our business could be disrupted and our financial performance could suffer. Our success is in part dependent upon the retention of our senior executive officers. If our senior executive officers become unable or unwilling to participate in our business, our future business and financial performance could be materially affected. In addition, as our business grows in size and complexity we must be able to continue to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel sufficient to allow us to adequately manage and grow our business. If we are unable to do so, our operating results could be negatively impacted. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain personnel as and when necessary in the future. Many aspects of our manufacturing and distribution facilities are customized for our business; as a result, the loss of one of these facilities would disrupt our operations. Approximately 68% of our 2007 sales were generated by products we manufactured at our manufacturing facility in Whately, Massachusetts and we rely primarily on our distribution facilities in South Deerfield, Massachusetts to distribute our products. Because most of our machinery is designed or customized by us to manufacture our products, and because we have strict quality control standards for our products, the loss of our manufacturing facility, due to natural disaster or otherwise, would materially affect our operations. Similarly, our distribution facilities rely upon customized machinery, systems and operations, the loss of which would materially affect our operations. Although our manufacturing and distribution facilities are adequately insured, we believe it would take up to twelve months to resume operations at a level equivalent to current operations. 13 Table of Contents Seasonal, quarterly and other fluctuations in our business, and general industry and market conditions, could affect the market for our results of operations. Our sales and operating results vary from quarter to quarter. We have historically realized higher sales and operating income in our fourth quarter, particularly in our retail business, which accounts for a larger portion of our sales. We believe that this has been due primarily to an increase in giftware industry sales during the holiday season of the fourth quarter. In addition, in anticipation of increased holiday sales activity, we incur certain significant incremental expenses, including the hiring of a substantial number of temporary employees to supplement our existing workforce. As a result of this seasonality, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. In addition, we may also experience quarterly fluctuations in our sales and income depending on various factors, including, among other things, the number of new retail stores we open in a particular quarter, changes in the ordering patterns of our wholesale customers during a particular quarter, pricing and promotional activities of our competitors, and the mix of products sold. Most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense, advertising and promotional expense and employee wages and salaries, do not vary directly with sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales for a particular quarter are below our expectations, we might not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore a sales shortfall could have a disproportionate effect on our operating results for that quarter. Further, our comparable store sales from our retail business in a particular quarter could be adversely affected by competition, the opening nearby of new retail stores or wholesale locations, economic or other general conditions or our inability to execute a particular business strategy. As a result of these factors, we may report in the future sales, operating results or comparable store sales that do not match the expectations of analysts and investors. This could cause the price of the notes to decline. Sustained interruptions in the supply of products from overseas may affect our operating results. We source various accessories and other products from East Asia. A sustained interruption of the operations of our suppliers, as a result of the impact of health epidemics, natural disasters such as the 2004 tsunami or other factors, could have an adverse effect on our ability to receive timely shipments of certain of our products, which might in turn negatively impact our operating results. Further increases in oil prices will negatively impact our cost of goods sold and margins. Any shortages in refined oil supplies could impact our wax supply. Further increases in wax prices above the rate of inflation may also negatively impact our cost of goods sold and margins. In the past several years, including 2007, significant increases in the price of crude oil have adversely impacted our transportation and freight costs and have contributed to significant increases in the cost of various raw materials, including wax which is a petroleum-based product. This in turn negatively impacts our cost of goods sold and margins. In addition, we believe that rising oil prices and corresponding increases in raw materials and transportation costs negatively impact not only our business but consumer sentiment and the economy at large. Continued weakness in consumer confidence and the macro—economic environment could negatively impact our sales and earnings. In addition to the impact of increased wax prices, any shortages in refined oil supplies may impact our wax supply. For example, in 2005, due to hurricanes in the Gulf Coast region and the closing and disruption of oil refineries located there, one of our primary wax suppliers placed us on allocation, whereby our wax purchases were allocated at the rate of seventy percent of 2004 purchases. While we took steps to manage this issue and mitigate any impacts, in 2005 the wax allocation had a negative impact on our ability to fulfill customer orders and our costs of production. While we are no longer on allocation, and experienced no supply issues in 2007, any future prolonged interruption or reduction in wax supplies could negatively impact our operations, sales and earnings. Historically, the market price of wax has generally moved with inflation. However, in the past several years the price of wax has increased at a rate significantly above the rate of inflation. Future significant increases in wax prices could have an adverse affect on our cost of goods sold and could lower our margins. Other factors may also cause our actual results to differ materially from our estimates and projections. In addition to the foregoing, there are other factors which may cause our actual results to differ materially from our estimates and projections. Such factors include the following: • changes in levels of competition from our current competitors and potential new competition from both retail stores and alternative methods or channels of distribution; 14 Table of Contents • loss of a significant vendor or prolonged disruption of product supply; • the successful introduction of new products and technologies in our product categories, including the frequency of such introductions, the level of consumer acceptance of new products and technologies, and their impact on demand for existing products and technologies; • the impact of changes in pricing and profit margins associated with our sourced products or raw materials; • changes in income tax laws or regulations, or in interpretations of existing income tax laws or regulations; • changes in the general economic conditions in the United States including, but not limited to, consumer debt levels, financial market performance, interest rates, consumer sentiment, inflation, commodity prices, unemployment and other factors that impact consumer confidence and spending; • adverse outcomes from significant litigation matters; • the imposition of additional restrictions or regulations regarding the sale of products we offer; • changes in our ability to attract, retain and develop highly-qualified employees or changes in the cost or availability of a sufficient labor force to manage and support our operations; • changes in our ability to meet objectives with regard to business acquisitions or new business ventures; • the occurrence of severe weather events prohibiting or discouraging consumers from traveling to retail or wholesale locations; • the disruption of global, national or regional transportation systems; • the occurrence of certain material events including natural disasters, acts of terrorism, the outbreak of war or other significant national or international events; • our ability to react in a timely manner and maintain our critical business processes and information systems capabilities in a disaster recovery situation; and • changes in our ability to manage our existing computer systems and technology infrastructures, and our ability to implement successfully new computer systems and technology infrastructures. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 15 Table of Contents 