Item 1A. Risk Factors. Discussed below are the more significant risk factors relating to Spectra Energy Partners. Risks Related to Spectra Energy Partners’ Business Spectra Energy Partners may not have sufficient cash from operations to enable it to make cash distributions to holders of common and subordinated units. In order to make cash distributions at the minimum distribution rate of $0.30 per common unit per complete quarter, or $1.20 per unit per year, it will require Available Cash of approximately $20.3 million per quarter, or $81.2 million per year, depending on the actual number of common units and subordinated units outstanding. Spectra Energy Partners may not have sufficient Available Cash from operating surplus each quarter to enable it to make cash distributions at the minimum distribution rate. The amount of cash Spectra Energy Partners can distribute on its units principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from operations, which will fluctuate based on, among other things: • the rates charged for transportation and storage services, and the volumes of natural gas customers transport and store; • the overall demand for natural gas in the Southeastern and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States and the quantities of natural gas available for transport, especially from the Gulf of Mexico, Appalachian and Mid-Continent areas; 15 Table of Contents • regulatory action affecting the demand for natural gas, the supply of natural gas, the rates Spectra Energy Partners can charge, contracts for services, existing contracts, operating costs and operating flexibility; • regulatory and economic limitations on the development of LNG import terminals in the Gulf Coast region; • successful development of LNG import terminals in the eastern or northeastern United States, which could reduce the need for natural gas to be transported on the East Tennessee pipeline system and for the development of additional natural gas storage capacity in the Gulf Coast region; and • the level of operating and maintenance, and general and administrative costs. In addition, the actual amount of cash available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond Spectra Energy Partners’ control, including: • the level of capital expenditures to complete construction projects; • the cost and form of payment of acquisitions; • debt service requirements and other liabilities; • fluctuations in working capital needs; • the ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; • restrictions on distributions contained in debt agreements; and • the amount of cash reserves established by Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner. Gulfstream and Market Hub are controlled by Spectra Energy and other third parties who are responsible for the management and operations of those assets. As a result, Spectra Energy Partners cannot control the amount of cash that will be received from Gulfstream and Market Hub, and Spectra Energy Partners may be required to contribute significant cash to fund their operations. Market Hub and Gulfstream are expected to generate approximately one-half of the cash Spectra Energy Partners distributes. Spectra Energy operates Market Hub and the operation of Gulfstream is shared between Spectra Energy and Williams. Accordingly, Spectra Energy Partners does not control the amount of cash distributed to Spectra Energy Partners nor does Spectra Energy Partners control ongoing operational decisions, including the incurrence of capital expenditures that Spectra Energy Partners may be required to fund. Spectra Energy Partners’ lack of control over the operations of Gulfstream and Market Hub may mean that Spectra Energy Partners does not receive the amount of cash it expects to be distributed. This may require that Spectra Energy Partners provide additional capital, and these contributions may be material. This lack of control may significantly and adversely affect the ability to distribute cash. Natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to regulation by FERC, which could have an adverse effect on the ability to establish transportation and storage rates that would allow Spectra Energy Partners to recover the full cost of operating its pipelines, including a reasonable return, and its ability to make distributions. Spectra Energy Partners’ interstate natural gas transportation and storage operations are subject to federal, state and local regulatory authorities. Specifically, the natural gas pipeline systems and certain of the storage facilities and related assets are subject to regulation by FERC. Its authority to regulate natural gas pipeline transportation services includes the rates charged for the services, terms and conditions of service, certification and construction of new facilities, the extension or abandonment of services and facilities, the maintenance of accounts and records, the acquisition and disposition of facilities, the initiation and discontinuation of services, and various other matters. In addition, Spectra Energy Partners cannot give any assurance regarding the likely future regulations under which it will operate its natural gas transportation and storage businesses or the effect such regulation could have on business, financial condition, results of operations and the ability to make distributions. 16 Table of Contents Certain transportation services are subject to long-term, fixed-price “negotiated rate” contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if the cost to perform services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts, and, as a result, Spectra Energy Partners’ costs could exceed revenues received under these contracts. Under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and a customer may mutually agree to sign a contract for service at a “negotiated rate” which may be above or below the FERC regulated “recourse rate” for that service. For 2007, all of Gulfstream’s firm revenues were derived from such negotiated rate contracts and approximately 37% of East Tennessee’s firm revenues were derived from capacity reservation charges under negotiated rate contracts. These negotiated rate contracts are not subject to adjustment for increased costs which could be produced by inflation or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services. It is possible that Gulfstream’s and East Tennessee’s costs to perform services under these negotiated rate contracts will exceed the negotiated rates. If this occurs, it could decrease cash flows from Gulfstream and East Tennessee. Market Hub’s right to charge “market-based rates” at one of its facilities is subject to the continued existence of certain conditions related to the competitive position of Market Hub and, if those conditions change, the right to charge “market-based rates” could be terminated. Certain of the rates charged by Market Hub are regulated by FERC pursuant to its “market-based rate” policy, which allows regulated storage companies to charge rates above those which would be permitted under traditional cost-of-service regulation. The right of Market Hub to charge market-based rates is based upon determinations by FERC that it does not have market power in the relevant market areas it serves. This determination of a lack of market power is subject to review and revision by FERC if circumstances change. In the event of an adverse determination concerning market power with respect to Market Hub, its rates could become subject to cost-of-service regulation which could have adverse consequences for the cash flow of Market Hub. Increased competition from alternative natural gas transportation and storage options and alternative fuel sources could have a significant financial effect on Spectra Energy Partners. Spectra Energy Partners competes primarily with other interstate and intrastate pipelines and storage facilities in the transportation and storage of natural gas. Some of Spectra Energy Partners’ competitors have greater financial resources and access to greater supplies of natural gas than Spectra Energy Partners does. Some of these competitors may expand or construct transportation and storage systems that would create additional competition for the services Spectra Energy Partners provides to its customers. Moreover, Spectra Energy and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with Spectra Energy Partners. Further, natural gas also competes with other forms of energy available to Spectra Energy Partners’ customers, including electricity, coal and fuel oils. The principal elements of competition among natural gas transportation and storage assets are rates, terms of service, access to natural gas supplies, flexibility and reliability. FERC’s policies promoting competition in natural gas markets are having the effect of increasing the natural gas transportation and storage options for Spectra Energy Partners’ traditional customer base. As a result, Spectra Energy Partners could experience some “turnback” of firm capacity as existing agreements expire. If East Tennessee, Gulfstream or Market Hub are unable to remarket this capacity or can remarket it only at substantially discounted rates compared to previous contracts, they may have to bear the costs associated with the turned back capacity. Increased competition could reduce the volumes of natural gas transported or stored by Spectra Energy Partners’ systems or, in cases where Spectra Energy Partners does not have long-term fixed rate contracts, could force Spectra Energy Partners to lower its transportation or storage rates. Competition could intensify the negative effect of factors that significantly decrease demand for natural gas in the markets served by Spectra Energy Partners’ pipeline systems, such as competing or alternative forms of energy, a recession or other adverse economic conditions, weather, higher fuel costs and taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that directly or indirectly increase the cost or limit the use of natural gas. The ability to renew or replace existing contracts at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected by the activities of competitors. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on Spectra Energy Partners’ business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make distributions. 17 Table of Contents Any significant decrease in supplies of natural gas in Spectra Energy Partners’ areas of operation could adversely affect business and operating results, and reduce cash available for distribution. All of Spectra Energy Partners’ businesses are dependent on the continued availability of natural gas production and reserves. Low prices for natural gas or regulatory limitations could adversely affect development of additional reserves and production that is accessible by Spectra Energy Partners’ pipeline and storage assets. Production from existing wells and natural gas supply basins with access to Spectra Energy Partners’ pipelines will naturally decline over time. Additionally, the amount of natural gas reserves underlying these wells may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than anticipated. Accordingly, to maintain or increase throughput on Spectra Energy Partners’ pipelines and cash flows associated with the transportation of gas, Spectra Energy Partners’ customers must continually obtain new supplies of natural gas. If new supplies of natural gas are not obtained to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing supply basins, the overall volume of natural gas transported and stored on Spectra Energy Partners’ systems would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on Spectra Energy Partners’ business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. The failure of LNG import terminals to be successfully developed in the Gulf Coast region or the successful development of LNG import terminals outside Spectra Energy Partners’ areas of operations could reduce the demand for Spectra Energy Partners’ services. Imported LNG is expected to be a significant component of future natural gas supply to the United States. Much of this increase in LNG supplies is expected to be imported through new LNG facilities to be developed over the next decade, and the Gulf Coast region is expected to be the region that will attract a majority of these projects. According to FERC’s Office of Energy Projects, as of January 14, 2008, there were two LNG terminals operating in the Gulf Coast region and of the 19 applications filed with U.S. federal agencies for additional LNG terminals in the Gulf Coast region, 17 had been approved. Spectra Energy Partners cannot predict which, if any, of these projects will be constructed. Spectra Energy Partners may not realize expected increases in future natural gas supply available for transportation and storage on its systems due to factors including: • new projects may fail to be developed; • new projects may not be developed at their announced capacity; • development of new projects may be significantly delayed; • new projects may be built in locations that are not connected to Spectra Energy Partners’ systems; or • new projects may not influence sources of supply on Spectra Energy Partners’ systems. Similarly, the development of new, or expansion of existing, LNG facilities outside Spectra Energy Partners’ areas of operations, or in an area with a direct connection into the Florida market served by Gulfstream, could reduce the need for customers to transport natural gas from the Gulf Coast and Appalachian regions, as well as other supply basins connected to Spectra Energy Partners’ pipelines. This could reduce the amount of natural gas transported by Spectra Energy Partners’ pipelines and the demand for Spectra Energy Partners’ storage facilities. If the expected increase in natural gas supply from imported LNG is not realized in Spectra Energy Partners’ areas of operation, the future overall volume of natural gas transported and stored on Spectra Energy Partners’ systems could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on Spectra Energy Partners’ business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Spectra Energy Partners may not be able to maintain or replace expiring natural gas transportation and storage contracts at favorable rates. Spectra Energy Partners’ primary exposure to market risk occurs at the time existing transportation and storage contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation and renewal. A portion of the revenue generated by Spectra Energy Partners’ systems in 2007 is attributable to firm capacity reservation fees that are set to expire on or prior to December 31, 2010. For Gulfstream, East Tennessee and Market Hub, those portions were 0%, 37%, and 68%, 18 Table of Contents respectively. Upon expiration, Spectra Energy Partners may not be able to extend contracts with existing customers or obtain replacement contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term basis. The extension or replacement of existing contracts depends on a number of factors beyond Spectra Energy Partners’ control, including: • the level of existing and new competition to deliver natural gas to Spectra Energy Partners’ markets; • the growth in demand for natural gas in Spectra Energy Partners’ markets; • whether the market will continue to support long-term contracts; • whether Spectra Energy Partners’ business strategy continues to be successful; and • the effects of state regulation on customer contracting practices. According to the Energy Information Administration (EIA), overall demand for natural gas consumption in the markets Spectra Energy Partners serves is expected to grow by approximately 2.1% per year for the period from 2007-2012. Spectra Energy Partners believes this growth will be driven by the construction of new natural gas fired electric generation plants in Florida and elsewhere to meet both a growing population base and a growing per capita demand for electricity. With the recent trend towards natural gas fired electric generation, demand for natural gas during the summer months to satisfy cooling requirements is now increasing. Any failure to extend or replace a significant portion of Spectra Energy Partners’ existing contracts may have a material adverse effect on Spectra Energy Partners’ business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Spectra Energy Partners and its equity affiliates depend on certain key customers for a significant portion of their revenues. The loss of any of these key customers could result in a decline in revenues and cash available to make distributions. Spectra Energy Partners relies on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the three largest customers for East Tennessee were Atmos Energy Corporation, CNX Gas Company LLC and KGen Murray I and II LLC; for Gulfstream were Florida Power & Light Company, Florida Power Corporation (d/b/a Progress Energy Florida, Inc.) and Tampa Electric Company and its affiliates; and for Market Hub were Texas Eastern Transmission (an affiliate), Luminant LLC and Northern Indiana Public Service Company. In 2007, these customers accounted for approximately 35% , 82% and 17% of the operating revenues for East Tennessee, Gulfstream and Market Hub, respectively. While most of these customers are subject to long-term contracts, the loss of all or even a portion of the contracted volumes of these customers as a result of competition, creditworthiness, inability to negotiate extensions or replacements of contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on Spectra Energy Partners’ financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions, unless Spectra Energy Partners is able to contract for comparable volumes from other customers at favorable rates. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to Spectra Energy Partners’ pipelines, and facilities become unavailable to transport natural gas, revenues and cash available to make distributions could be adversely affected. Spectra Energy Partners depends upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from Spectra Energy Partners’ pipelines and storage facilities. Because Spectra Energy Partners does not own these third-party pipelines or facilities, their continuing operation is not within Spectra Energy Partners’ control. If these or any other pipeline connection were to become unavailable for current or future volumes of natural gas due to repairs, damage to the facility, lack of capacity or any other reason, the ability to operate efficiently and continue shipping natural gas to end-markets could be restricted, thereby reducing revenues. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnect could have a material adverse effect on Spectra Energy Partners’ business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make distributions. 19 Table of Contents Neither Gulfstream nor Market Hub is prohibited from incurring indebtedness, which may affect Spectra Energy Partners’ ability to make distributions. Neither Gulfstream nor Market Hub is prohibited from incurring indebtedness by the terms of their respective limited liability company agreement and general partnership agreement. If Gulfstream or Market Hub were to incur significant additional indebtedness, it could inhibit their respective abilities to make distributions to Spectra Energy Partners. An inability by either Gulfstream or Market Hub to make distributions would materially and adversely affect the ability to make distributions because Spectra Energy Partners expects distributions it receives from each of them to represent a substantial portion of the cash distributed to the common and subordinated unitholders of Spectra Energy Partners. If Spectra Energy Partners does not complete expansion projects or make and integrate acquisitions, future growth may be limited. A principal focus of Spectra Energy Partners’ strategy is to continue to grow the cash distributions on Spectra Energy Partners’ units by expanding its business. The ability to grow depends on the ability to complete expansion projects and make acquisitions that result in an increase in cash generated. Spectra Energy Partners may be unable to complete successful, accretive expansion projects or acquisitions for any of the following reasons: • an inability to identify attractive expansion projects or acquisition candidates or is outbid by competitors; • an inability to obtain necessary rights of way or government approvals, including regulatory agencies; • an inability to integrate successfully the businesses it builds or acquires; • Spectra Energy Partners is unable to raise financing for such expansions projects or acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; • incorrect assumptions about volumes, reserves, revenues and costs, including synergies and potential growth; or • the inability to secure adequate customer commitments to use the newly expanded or acquired facilities. Acquisitions or expansion projects that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce Spectra Energy Partners’ cash from operations on a per unit basis. Even if Spectra Energy Partners makes acquisitions or completes expansion projects that it believes will be accretive, these acquisitions or expansion projects may nevertheless reduce cash from operations on a per unit basis. Any acquisition or expansion project involves potential risks, including, among other things: • a decrease in liquidity as a result of using a significant portion of Available Cash or borrowing capacity to finance the project or acquisition; • an inability to complete expansion projects on schedule or within the budgeted cost due to the unavailability of required construction personnel, equipment or materials, and the risk of cost overruns resulting from inflation or increased costs of materials, labor and equipment; • an inability to complete expansion projects on schedule due to accidents, weather conditions or an inability to obtain necessary permits; • an inability to receive cash flows from a newly built or acquired asset until it is operational; • unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and • customer losses at the acquired business. Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding, delay its completion or increase its anticipated costs. As a result, new facilities may not achieve expected investment return, which could adversely affect results of operations, financial position or cash flows. If any expansion projects or acquisitions that Spectra Energy Partners ultimately completes is not accretive to distributable cash flow per unit, the ability to make distributions may be reduced. 20 Table of Contents The amount of cash available for distribution depends primarily on cash flow and not solely on profitability, which may prevent Spectra Energy Partners from making cash distributions during periods when net income is recorded. The amount of cash available for distribution depends primarily upon cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, Spectra Energy Partners may make cash distributions during periods when a net loss is recorded for financial accounting purposes and may not make cash distributions during periods when net earnings are reported for financial accounting purposes. Significant prolonged changes in natural gas prices could affect supply and demand, reducing throughput on Spectra Energy Partners’ systems and adversely affecting revenues and cash available to make distributions over the long-term. Higher natural gas prices over the long term could result in a decline in the demand for natural gas and, therefore, in the throughput on Spectra Energy Partners’ systems. Also, lower natural gas prices over the long term could result in a decline in the production of natural gas resulting in reduced throughput on Spectra Energy Partners’ systems. In addition, prolonged reduced price volatility could reduce the revenues generated by park-and-lend and interruptible storage services. As a result, significant prolonged changes in natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on Spectra Energy Partners’ financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may expose Spectra Energy Partners to significant costs and liabilities. Spectra Energy Partners’ natural gas transportation and storage activities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Spectra Energy Partners may incur substantial costs in order to conduct operations in compliance with these laws and regulations. Moreover, new, stricter environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be implemented that significantly increase compliance costs or the cost of any remediation of environmental contamination that may become necessary, and these costs could be material. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations, or the permits issued under them, may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of Spectra Energy Partners’ operations. In addition, strict joint and several liability may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause Spectra Energy Partners to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of Spectra Energy Partners’ own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Private parties may also have the right to pursue legal actions against Spectra Energy Partners to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for non-compliance, with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage that may result from environmental and other effects of operations. Spectra Energy Partners may not be able to recover some or any of these costs through insurance or increased revenues, which may have a material adverse effect on Spectra Energy Partners’ business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. Spectra Energy Partners may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and any necessary pipeline repair or preventative or remedial measures. The United States Department of Transportation (DOT), has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm in “high consequence areas.” The regulations require operators to: • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could affect a high consequence area; • improve data collection, integration and analysis; 21 Table of Contents • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and • implement preventive and mitigating actions. Actual implementation costs may be affected by industry-wide demand for the associated contractors and service providers. Additionally, should Spectra Energy Partners fail to comply with DOT regulations, it could be subject to penalties and fines. Spectra Energy Partners does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt operations. Spectra Energy Partners does not own all of the land on which its pipelines and facilities have been constructed, and is therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if it does not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. Spectra Energy Partners obtains the rights to construct and operate its pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. The loss of these rights, through the inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on Spectra Energy Partners’ business, results of operations and financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. Spectra Energy Partners’ operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions. Spectra Energy Partners’ operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the transportation and storage of natural gas, including: • damage to pipelines, facilities and related equipment caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires and other natural disasters, explosions and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from third parties, including from construction, farm and utility equipment; • leaks of natural gas and other hydrocarbons or losses of natural gas as a result of the malfunction of equipment or facilities; • collapse of storage caverns; • operator error; • environmental pollution; • explosions and blowouts; • risks related to underwater pipelines in the Gulf of Mexico, which are susceptible to damage from shifting as a result of water currents (as seen in the Gulf of Mexico following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita), as well as damage from vessels; • risks related to pipeline that traverses areas in Florida where karst conditions exist. Karst conditions refers to terrain, usually found where limestone or other carbonate rock is present, that may subside or result in a sinkhole collapse when the underlying water table changes; and • risks related to operating in a marine environment. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage which may result in curtailment or suspension of related operations. A natural disaster or other hazard affecting the areas in which Spectra Energy Partners operates could have a material adverse effect on operations. Spectra Energy Partners does not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities. Spectra Energy Partners is not fully insured against all risks inherent to its business. Spectra Energy Partners is not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect operations and financial condition. In addition, Spectra Energy Partners may 22 Table of Contents not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount it desires at reasonable rates. Changes in the insurance markets subsequent to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, and Hurricanes Katrina and Rita have made it more difficult to obtain certain types of coverage, and Spectra Energy Partners may elect to self insure a portion of its asset portfolio. In addition, Spectra Energy Partners does not maintain offshore business interruption insurance. There can be no assurance that Spectra Energy Partners will be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance it would otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes or that the insurance coverage it does obtain will not contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. The occurrence of any operating risks not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on Spectra Energy Partners’ business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Spectra Energy Partners’ debt levels may limit its flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. At the closing of the IPO, Spectra Energy Partners borrowed $194 million in term debt and $125 million in revolving debt under its new $500 million credit facility. Following the IPO, Spectra Energy Partners continued to have the ability to incur additional debt, subject to limitations in its credit facility. Spectra Energy Partners’ level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: • the ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • Spectra Energy Partners will need a substantial portion of its cash flow to make principal and interest payments on its indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; and • Spectra Energy Partners’ debt level could make it more vulnerable than its competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in Spectra Energy Partners’ business or the economy in general. Spectra Energy Partners’ ability to service its debt will depend upon, among other things, its future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond Spectra Energy Partners’ control. In addition, the ability to service debt under its revolving credit facility will depend on market interest rates, since Spectra Energy Partners’ anticipates that the interest rates applicable to its borrowings will fluctuate with movements in interest rate markets. If operating results are not sufficient to service current or future indebtedness, Spectra Energy Partners will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. Spectra Energy Partners may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. Restrictions in Spectra Energy Partners’ credit facility may interrupt distributions to Spectra Energy Partners from its subsidiaries, which will limit its ability to make distributions and may limit the ability to capitalize on acquisition and other business opportunities. Spectra Energy Partners is a holding company with no business operations. As such, Spectra Energy Partners depends upon the earnings and cash flow of its subsidiaries and the distribution of that cash to Spectra Energy Partners in order to meet Spectra Energy Partners’ obligations and to allow Spectra Energy Partners to make distributions to Spectra Energy Partners’ unitholders. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in Spectra Energy Partners’ credit facility and any future financing agreements could restrict its ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue business activities. Spectra Energy Partners’ credit facility contains covenants, some of which may be modified or eliminated upon Spectra Energy Partners’ receipt of an investment grade rating, that restrict or limit Spectra Energy Partners’ ability to: • make distributions if any default or event of default occurs; • make other restricted distributions or dividends on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of partnership interests; • incur additional indebtedness or guarantee other indebtedness; 23 Table of Contents • grant liens or make certain negative pledges; • make certain loans or investments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • make any material change to the nature of Spectra Energy Partners’ business from the midstream energy business; • dispose of assets; or • enter into a merger, consolidate, liquidate, wind up or dissolve. Furthermore, the credit facility contains covenants requiring Spectra Energy Partners to maintain certain financial ratios and tests. The ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the credit facility may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, Spectra Energy Partners’ ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If Spectra Energy Partners violates any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in its credit facility, the lenders will be able to accelerate the maturity of all borrowings under the credit facility and demand repayment of amounts outstanding, the lenders’ commitment to make further loans to Spectra Energy Partners may terminate, and the operating partnership will be prohibited from making any distributions. Spectra Energy Partners might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Any subsequent replacement of Spectra Energy Partners’ credit facility or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. Any interruption of distributions to Spectra Energy Partners from its subsidiaries may limit Spectra Energy Partners’ ability to satisfy its obligations and to make distributions. The credit and risk profile of Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner and its owner, Spectra Energy, could adversely affect Spectra Energy Partners’ credit ratings and risk profile, which could increase borrowing costs or hinder the ability to raise capital. The credit and business risk profiles of Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner and Spectra Energy may be factors considered in credit evaluations of Spectra Energy Partners. This is because the general partner controls Spectra Energy Partners’ business activities, including its cash distribution policy, acquisition strategy and business risk profile. Another factor that may be considered is the financial condition of Spectra Energy, including the degree of its financial leverage and its dependence on cash flow from the partnership to service its indebtedness. If Spectra Energy Partners were to have a credit rating in the future, Spectra Energy Partners’ credit rating may be adversely affected by the leverage of Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner or Spectra Energy, as credit rating agencies may consider the leverage and credit profile of Spectra Energy and its affiliates because of their ownership interest in and control of Spectra Energy Partners and the strong operational links between Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners. Any adverse effect on Spectra Energy Partners’ credit rating would increase its cost of borrowing or hinder its ability to raise financing in the capital markets, which would impair its ability to grow its business and make distributions. Terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks, have resulted in increased costs to Spectra Energy Partners’ business. Continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may adversely affect Spectra Energy Partners’ results of operations. The long-term effect of terrorist attacks and the threat of future terrorist attacks on Spectra Energy Partners’ industry in general, and on Spectra Energy Partners in particular, is not known at this time. However, the U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets, including the U.S. pipeline infrastructure, may be the future target of terrorist organizations. Increased security measures taken by Spectra Energy Partners as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect Spectra Energy Partners’ operations in unpredictable ways, including the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Any terrorist attack on Spectra Energy Partners’ facilities or pipelines or those of its customers could have a material adverse effect on Spectra Energy Partners’ business. 24 Table of Contents Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for Spectra Energy Partners to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to Spectra Energy Partners may be significantly more expensive than its existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect Spectra Energy Partners’ ability to raise capital. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Spectra Energy Partners Spectra Energy controls Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting Spectra Energy Partners’ business and managing its operations. Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner and its affiliates, including Spectra Energy, have conflicts of interest with Spectra Energy Partners and limited fiduciary duties, and may favor their own interests to the detriment of Spectra Energy Partners. Spectra Energy owns and controls Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner. Some of Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner’s directors, and some of its executive officers, are directors or officers of Spectra Energy or its affiliates. Although Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage Spectra Energy Partners in a manner beneficial to Spectra Energy and Spectra Energy Partners’ unitholders, the directors and officers of Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner in a manner beneficial to Spectra Energy. Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between Spectra Energy and its affiliates, including Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner, on the one hand, and Spectra Energy Partners and its unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts of interest, Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of Spectra Energy Partners’ unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither Spectra Energy Partners’ partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires Spectra Energy to pursue a business strategy that favors Spectra Energy Partners. Spectra Energy’s directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the owners of Spectra Energy, which may be contrary to Spectra Energy Partners’ interests; • the general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than Spectra Energy Partners, such as Spectra Energy and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest; • Spectra Energy and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with Spectra Energy Partners; • the general partner may make a determination to receive a quantity of Spectra Energy Partners’ Class B units in exchange for resetting the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights without the approval of the Conflicts Committee of Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner or Spectra Energy Partners’ unitholders; • some officers of Spectra Energy who provide services to Spectra Energy Partners also will devote significant time to the business of Spectra Energy, and will be compensated by Spectra Energy for the services rendered to it; • the general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to Spectra Energy Partners’ unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. By purchasing common units, unitholders will be deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; • the general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; • the general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditures and, based on the applicable facts and circumstances, whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure (which reduces operating surplus) or an expansion capital expenditure (which does not reduce operating surplus). This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; 25 Table of Contents • the general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by Spectra Energy Partners; • in some instances, the general partner may cause Spectra Energy Partners to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; • Spectra Energy Partners’ partnership agreement does not restrict the general partner from causing Spectra Energy Partners to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to Spectra Energy Partners or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on Spectra Energy Partners’ behalf; • the general partner intends to limit its liability regarding Spectra Energy Partners’ contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by Spectra Energy Partners; • the general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units; • the general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to Spectra Energy Partners by the general partner and its affiliates; and • the general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for Spectra Energy Partners. Affiliates of the general partner, including Spectra Energy, DCP Midstream, LLC and DCP Midstream Partners, LP, are not limited in their ability to compete with Spectra Energy Partners, which could limit commercial activities or the ability to acquire additional assets or businesses. Neither Spectra Energy Partners’ partnership agreement nor the omnibus agreement among Spectra Energy Partners, Spectra Energy and others prohibits affiliates of the general partner, including Spectra Energy, DCP Midstream, LLC and DCP Midstream Partners, LP, from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with Spectra Energy Partners. In addition, Spectra Energy and its affiliates may acquire, construct or dispose of additional transportation and storage or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer Spectra Energy Partners the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. Each of these entities is a large, established participant in the midstream energy business, and each has significantly greater resources and experience than Spectra Energy Partners has, which factors may make it more difficult for Spectra Energy Partners to compete with these entities with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. As a result, competition from these entities could adversely affect Spectra Energy Partners’ results of operations and cash available for distribution. If a unitholder is not an Eligible Holder, they will not be entitled to receive distributions or allocations of income or loss on common units and those common units will be subject to redemption at a price that may be below the current market price. In order to comply with certain FERC rate-making policies applicable to entities that pass through taxable income to their owners, Spectra Energy Partners has adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own common and subordinated units. Eligible Holders are individuals or entities subject to United States federal income taxation on the income generated by Spectra Energy Partners or entities not subject to United States federal income taxation on the income generated by Spectra Energy Partners, so long as all of the entity’s owners are subject to such taxation. If a unitholder is not a person who fits the requirements to be an Eligible Holder, they will not receive distributions or allocations of income and loss on the unitholder’s units and the unitholder runs the risk of having the units redeemed by Spectra Energy Partners at the lower of the unitholder’s purchase price cost or the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner. 26 Table of Contents Cost reimbursements to the general partner and its affiliates for services provided, which will be determined by the general partner, will be substantial and will reduce Spectra Energy Partners’ cash available for distribution. Pursuant to an omnibus agreement Spectra Energy Partners entered into with Spectra Energy, the general partner and certain of their affiliates, Spectra Energy will receive reimbursement for the payment of operating expenses related to Spectra Energy Partners’ operations and for the provision of various general and administrative services for Spectra Energy Partners’ benefit, including costs for rendering administrative staff and support services, and overhead allocated to Spectra Energy Partners, which amounts will be determined by the general partner in its sole discretion. Payments for these services will be substantial and will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, general partner has unlimited liability for Spectra Energy Partners’ obligations, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. To the extent the general partner incurs obligations on Spectra Energy Partners’ behalf, Spectra Energy Partners is obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If Spectra Energy Partners is unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify the general partner, the general partner may take actions to cause Spectra Energy Partners to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution. The partnership agreement limits the general partner’s fiduciary duties to holders of Spectra Energy Partners’ common and subordinated units, and restricts the remedies available to holders of common and subordinated units for actions taken by the general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Spectra Energy Partners’ partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which the general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, Spectra Energy Partners’ partnership agreement: • permits the general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner. This entitles the general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting Spectra Energy Partners, Spectra Energy Partners’ affiliates or any limited partner; • provides that the general partner will not have any liability to Spectra Energy Partners or Spectra Energy Partners’ unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decision was in the best interests of Spectra Energy Partners’ partnership; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the Conflicts Committee of the board of directors of the general partner acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to Spectra Energy Partners than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be “fair and reasonable” to Spectra Energy Partners, as determined by the general partner in good faith. In determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” the general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to unitholders; • provides that the general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to Spectra Energy Partners, Spectra Energy Partners’ limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision the general partner or its Conflicts Committee acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or Spectra Energy Partners, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. 27 Table of Contents By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder will agree to become bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. The general partner may elect to cause Spectra Energy Partners to issue Class B units to the general partner in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the general partner’s incentive distribution rights without the approval of the Conflicts Committee of the general partner or holders of Spectra Energy Partners’ common units and subordinated units. This may result in lower distributions to holders of Spectra Energy Partners’ common units in certain situations. Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner has the right, at a time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (48%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial cash target distribution levels at higher levels based on the distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by the general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution amount will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution amount per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”) and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution amount. In connection with resetting these target distribution levels, the general partner will be entitled to receive a number of Class B units. The Class B units will be entitled to the same cash distributions per unit as Spectra Energy Partners’ common units and will be convertible into an equal number of common units. The number of Class B units to be issued will be equal to that number of common units whose aggregate quarterly cash distributions equaled the average of the distributions to the general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. Spectra Energy Partners anticipates that the general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that the general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or may be expected to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued Spectra Energy Partners’ Class B units, which are entitled to receive cash distributions from Spectra Energy Partners on the same priority as Spectra Energy Partners’ common units, rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause Spectra Energy Partners’ common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had Spectra Energy Partners not issued new Class B units to the general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to the general partner incentive distribution rights. Holders of Spectra Energy Partners’ common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which the common units will trade. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting Spectra Energy Partners’ business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding such business. Unitholders will not elect Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner or its board of directors, and will have no right to elect the general partner or board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of the general partner, including the independent directors, will be chosen entirely by its owners and not by the unitholders. Furthermore, if the unitholders were dissatisfied with the performance of the general partner, they will have little ability to remove the general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if holders of Spectra Energy Partners’ common units are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner without its consent. The unitholders will be unable initially to remove Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner without its consent because the general partner and its affiliates will own sufficient units upon completion of this offering to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class 28 Table of Contents is required to remove the general partner. Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner and its affiliates own 83% of Spectra Energy Partners’ aggregate outstanding common and subordinated units. Also, if the general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by the general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units and any existing arrearages on Spectra Energy Partners’ common units will be extinguished. A removal of the general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect Spectra Energy Partners’ common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until Spectra Energy Partners had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding the general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as Spectra Energy Partners’ general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of the general partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with the general partner’s performance in managing Spectra Energy Partners’ partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period and conversion of all subordinated units to common units. Spectra Energy Partners’ partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of Spectra Energy Partners’ common units. Spectra Energy Partners’ partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than the general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of the general partner, cannot vote on any matter. The partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about Spectra Energy Partners’ operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Spectra Energy Partners has a holding company structure in which the subsidiaries conduct operations and own operating assets, which may affect Spectra Energy Partners’ ability to make distributions. Spectra Energy Partners is a partnership holding company and its operating subsidiaries conduct all of the operations and own all of the operating assets. Spectra Energy Partners has no significant assets other than the ownership interests in its subsidiaries and equity investments, including Gulfstream and Market Hub. As a result, the ability to make distributions to Spectra Energy Partners’ unitholders depends on the performance of these subsidiaries and equity investments and their ability to distribute funds to Spectra Energy Partners. The ability of the subsidiaries and joint ventures to make distributions to Spectra Energy Partners may be restricted by, among other things, the provisions of existing and future indebtedness, applicable state partnership and limited liability company laws and other laws and regulations, including FERC policies. If Spectra Energy Partners is deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, it would adversely affect the price of its common units and could have a material adverse effect on its business. Spectra Energy Partners’ initial assets consist of a 100% ownership interest in East Tennessee, a 24.5% limited liability company interest in Gulfstream and a 50% general partner interest in Market Hub. If a sufficient amount of Spectra Energy Partners’ assets, such as its ownership interests in Gulfstream and Market Hub or other assets acquired in the future, are deemed to be “investment securities” within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, Spectra Energy Partners would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the Commission or modify the organizational structure or contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Although general partner interests are typically not considered “securities” or “investment securities,” there is a risk that Spectra Energy Partners’ 50% general partner interest in Market Hub could be deemed to be an investment security. In that event, it is possible that the ownership of this interest, combined with the 24.5% interest in Gulfstream or assets acquired in the future, could result in Spectra Energy Partners being required to register under the Investment Company Act if Spectra Energy Partners were not successful in obtaining exemptive relief or otherwise modifying the organizational structure or applicable contract rights. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit the ability to 29 Table of Contents engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from its affiliates, restrict its ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require Spectra Energy Partners to add additional directors who are independent of Spectra Energy Partners or its affiliates. The occurrence of some or all of these events would adversely affect the price of the common units and could have a material adverse effect on Spectra Energy Partners’ business. Control of the general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. The general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, the partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the owners of the general partner or its parent, from transferring all or a portion of their respective ownership interest in the general partner or its parent to a third party. The new owners of the general partner or its parent would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of its parent with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect Spectra Energy Partners’ unit price and the ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, incur debt or for other purposes. In recent years, the U.S. credit markets experienced 50-year record lows in interest rates. If the overall economy strengthens, it is possible that monetary policy will tighten, resulting in higher interest rates to counter possible inflation risk. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, Spectra Energy Partners’ unit price is affected by the level of cash distributions and implied distribution yield. Therefore, changes in interest rates may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in Spectra Energy Partners’ units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse effect on Spectra Energy Partners’ unit price and the ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, to incur debt or for other purposes. Spectra Energy Partners may issue additional units without the common unitholders’ approval, which would dilute existing common unitholders’ ownership interests. Spectra Energy Partners’ partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests that may be issued at any time without the approval of the unitholders. The issuance by Spectra Energy Partners of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • each unitholder’s proportionate ownership interest in Spectra Energy Partners will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by Spectra Energy Partners’ common unitholders will increase; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Spectra Energy and its affiliates may sell units in the public or private markets, which sales could have an adverse effect on the trading price of the common units. Spectra Energy and its affiliates hold an aggregate of 33,129,880 common units and 21,638,730 subordinated units. All of the subordinated units will convert into common units at the end of the subordination period, which could occur on the first business day after June 30, 2010, and all of the subordinated units may convert into common units as early as June 30, 2008 if additional tests are satisfied. The sale of any of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse effect on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop. 30 Table of Contents The general partner has a limited call right that may require a common unitholder to sell the unitholder’s units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time the general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, the general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to Spectra Energy Partners, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, a common unitholder may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. A common unitholder may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. As of March 6, 2008, the general partner and its affiliates own approximately 74% of Spectra Energy Partners’ outstanding common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming no additional issuances of common units (other than for the conversion of the subordinated units into common units), the general partner and its affiliates will own approximately 83% of Spectra Energy Partners’ aggregate outstanding common units. A common unitholder’s liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of Spectra Energy Partners’ business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Spectra Energy Partners’ partnership is organized under Delaware law and Spectra Energy Partners conducts business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the states in which Spectra Energy Partners does business. A common unitholder could be liable for any and all of Spectra Energy Partners’ obligations as if a common unitholder was a general partner if a court or government agency determined that: • Spectra Energy Partners was conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • A common unitholder’s right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to Spectra Energy Partners’ partnership agreement or to take other actions under the partnership agreement constitutes “control” of its business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, Spectra Energy Partners may not make a distribution to the unitholder if the distribution would cause Spectra Energy Partners’ liabilities to exceed the fair value of Spectra Energy Partners’ assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the substituted limited partner at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Spectra Energy Partners will incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly-traded partnership. Spectra Energy Partners had no history operating as a publicly-traded partnership prior to the IPO. As a publicly-traded partnership, Spectra Energy Partners will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, have required changes in corporate governance practices of publicly-traded entities. Spectra Energy Partners expects these new rules and regulations to increase legal and financial compliance costs and to make activities more time-consuming and costly. 31 Table of Contents Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Spectra Energy Partners’ tax treatment depends on Spectra Energy Partners’ status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as Spectra Energy Partners’ not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) treats Spectra Energy Partners as a corporation or Spectra Energy Partners becomes subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in Spectra Energy Partners’ common units depends largely on Spectra Energy Partners being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Spectra Energy Partners has not requested, and does not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting Spectra Energy Partners. If Spectra Energy Partners were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, it would pay federal income tax on taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to a common unitholder. Because a tax would be imposed upon Spectra Energy Partners as a corporation, cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of Spectra Energy Partners as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to a common unitholder, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of Spectra Energy Partners’ common units. Current law may change so as to cause Spectra Energy Partners to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject Spectra Energy Partners to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Spectra Energy Partners’ partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects Spectra Energy Partners to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects Spectra Energy Partners to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the effect of that law. An IRS contest of the federal income tax positions Spectra Energy Partners takes may adversely affect the market for Spectra Energy Partners’ common units, and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce cash available for distribution. Spectra Energy Partners has not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to Spectra Energy Partners’ treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of Spectra Energy Partners. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of Spectra Energy Partners’ counsel’s conclusions or the positions Spectra Energy Partners takes. A court may not agree with all of Spectra Energy Partners’ conclusions or positions Spectra Energy Partners takes. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely affect the market for Spectra Energy Partners’ common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by Spectra Energy Partners’ unitholders and the general partner because the costs will reduce Spectra Energy Partners’ cash available for distribution. The unitholder may be required to pay taxes on the unitholder’s share of Spectra Energy Partners’ income even if the unitholder does not receive any cash distributions. Because Spectra Energy Partners’ unitholders will be treated as partners to whom Spectra Energy Partners will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash distributed, a common unitholder will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on the common unitholder’s share of taxable income even if the common unitholder receives no cash distributions from Spectra Energy Partners. A common unitholder may not receive cash distributions from Spectra Energy Partners equal to the unitholder’s share of taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. 32 Table of Contents Tax gain or loss on disposition of Spectra Energy Partners’ common units could be more or less than expected. If the common unitholder sells the common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the common unitholder’s tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of the common unitholder’s allocable share of Spectra Energy Partners’ net taxable income decrease the common unitholder’s tax basis in the common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units the unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the unitholder sells such units at a price greater than the tax basis, even if the price the unitholder receives is less than the original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes the share of Spectra Energy Partners’ nonrecourse liabilities, if the common unitholder sells the units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash the unitholder receives from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (IRAs), other retirement plans and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of Spectra Energy Partners’ income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of Spectra Energy Partners’ taxable income. If the unitholder is a tax-exempt entity or a foreign person, the unitholder should consult a tax advisor before investing in Spectra Energy Partners’ common units. Spectra Energy Partners will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because Spectra Energy Partners cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, Spectra Energy Partners will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing U.S. Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to the common unitholder. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of Spectra Energy Partners’ common units and could have a negative effect on the value of Spectra Energy Partners’ common units or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns. Spectra Energy Partners has adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When Spectra Energy Partners issues additional units or engages in certain other transactions, Spectra Energy Partners determines the fair market value of its assets and allocates any unrealized gain or loss attributable to its assets to the capital accounts of its unitholders and general partner. Spectra Energy Partners’ methodology may be viewed as understating the value of its assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to Spectra Energy Partners’ tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to its intangible assets. The IRS may challenge Spectra Energy Partners’ valuation methods, or its allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and certain of Spectra Energy Partners’ unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to Spectra Energy Partners’ unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from 33 Table of Contents Spectra Energy Partners’ unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative effect on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of Spectra Energy Partners’ capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of the partnership for federal income tax purposes. Spectra Energy Partners will be considered to have terminated the partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in Spectra Energy Partners’ capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Spectra Energy Partners’ termination would, among other things, result in the closing of the taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing Spectra Energy Partners’ taxable income. A common unitholder will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where the common unitholder does not live as a result of investing in Spectra Energy Partners’ common units. In addition to federal income taxes, a common unitholder will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which Spectra Energy Partners does business or owns property, even if the common unitholder does not live in any of those jurisdictions. A common unitholder will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, a common unitholder may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. Spectra Energy Partners will initially own assets and do business in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. Each of these states, other than Texas and Florida, currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals. A majority of these states impose an income tax on corporations and other entities. As Spectra Energy Partners makes acquisitions or expands its business, it may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose an income tax. It is the common unitholder’s responsibility to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns. Spectra Energy Partners’ counsel has not rendered an opinion on the foreign, state or local tax consequences of an investment in the common units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 