Item 1A. Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are subject to certain risks, trends and uncertainties. In particular, statements made in this report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts (including, but not limited to, expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections regarding the industry, business, future operating results, potential acquisitions, and anticipated cash requirements) may be forward-looking statements. Words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Such statements, including statements regarding the Company’s future growth; anticipated cost savings, revenue increases and capital expenditures; strategic initiatives such as selective relocations, greenfields and acquisitions; the Company’s competitive position; and its continued involvement in information technology are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results projected, expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below under “Risks Related to the Company’s Business.” Some of these factors also include: • fluctuations in consumer demand for and in the supply of used, leased and salvage vehicles and the resulting impact on auction sales volumes, conversion rates and loan transaction volumes; • trends in new and used vehicle sales and incentives, including wholesale used vehicle pricing; • the ability of consumers to lease or finance the purchase of new and/or used vehicles; • the ability to recover or collect from delinquent customers; • economic conditions including fuel prices, foreign exchange rates and interest rate fluctuations; • trends in the vehicle remarketing industry; • changes in the volume of vehicle production, including capacity reductions at the major original equipment manufacturers; 16 Table of Contents • the introduction of new competitors; • laws, regulations and industry standards, including changes in regulations governing the sale of used vehicles, the processing of salvage vehicles and commercial lending activities; • changes in the market value of vehicles auctioned, including changes in the actual cash value of salvage vehicles; • competitive pricing pressures; • costs associated with the acquisition of businesses or technologies; • litigation developments; • the Company’s ability to successfully implement its business strategies or realize expected cost savings and revenue enhancements; • the Company’s ability to develop and implement information systems responsive to customer needs; • business development activities, including acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses; • weather; • general business conditions; and • other risks described from time to time in the Company’s filings with the SEC, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q to be filed by the Company in 2009. Many of these risk factors are outside of the Company’s control, and as such, they involve risks which are not currently known that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed or implied herein. The forward-looking statements in this document are made as of the date on which they are made and the Company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS The recent financial crisis and economic downturn have negatively affected the Company’s results of operations and business, and conditions may not improve in the near future. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than a year, which has led to an economic downturn in the U.S. and abroad. The ongoing financial crisis and economic downturn have increased the Company’s exposure to several risk factors, including: • Decline in demand for used vehicles. The Company has experienced a decrease in demand for used vehicles from buyers and variations in conversion rates (the number of vehicles sold as a percentage of the number of vehicles entered for sale at used vehicle auctions) due to factors underlying buyer demand such as the lack of availability of consumer credit and the decline in consumer spending and consumer confidence. Adverse credit conditions have also affected the ability of dealers to secure financing to purchase used vehicles which has further negatively affected buyer demand. In addition, a reduction in the number of franchise and independent used car dealers has negatively affected and may continue to negatively affect the Company’s ability to collect receivables and may reduce demand. • Fluctuations in the supply of used vehicles. The Company is dependent on the supply of used vehicles coming to auction. A consequence of the global economic downturn and credit crisis has been an erosion of demand for new and used vehicles. This has led many lenders to cut back on originations of new loans and leases and is expected to lead to significant capacity reductions by automakers in the U.S. Capacity reductions generally depress the number of vehicles received for auction in the future. • Supply of salvage vehicles. Due to current market conditions, the number of miles driven may continue to decrease, which may lead to a decrease in the number of salvage vehicles received at auction. In addition, decreases in commodity prices, such as steel and platinum, have negatively affected and may continue to negatively affect vehicle values and demand at salvage auctions. 17 Table of Contents • Volatility in the asset-backed securities market. The volatility and disruption in the asset-backed commercial paper market, declines in the prime rate and increased loan losses as used vehicle dealers have experienced steep declines in sales over the last several months have led to reduced revenues and the narrowing of interest rate spreads at AFC. In addition, the volatility and disruption have affected, and may continue to affect, AFC’s cost of financing related to its securitization conduit. • Increased counterparty credit risk. Continued market deterioration could increase the risk of the failure of financial institutions party to the Company’s credit agreement and other counterparties with which the Company does business to honor their obligations to the Company. The Company’s ability to replace any such obligations on the same or similar terms may be limited if challenging credit and general economic conditions persist. • Substantial amount of indebtedness. Continued uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively affect the Company’s ability to access additional financing or to refinance its existing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. While the Company’s business model has historically generated substantial operating cash flow, if a prolonged recession occurs, it may affect the Company’s cash flow from operations and results of operations, which may affect the Company’s ability to service payment obligations on its debt or to comply with its debt covenants. The Federal Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are currently taking certain actions to address the financial crisis. There can be no assurance as to the effect that any such governmental actions will have on the financial markets generally or on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company does not currently know the full extent to which this market disruption will affect it or the market in which it operates, and it is unable to predict the length or ultimate severity of the financial crisis and economic downturn. Since the third quarter of 2008, the trends described above have adversely affected the Company’s operating results and business. If the financial crisis and economic downturn persist and these trends continue, the Company’s results of operations, business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Fluctuations in consumer demand for and in the supply of used, leased and salvage vehicles impact auction sales volume, conversion rates and the demand for floorplan financing by independent used vehicle dealers, which may adversely affect the Company’s revenues and profitability. In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to changes in general U.S. economic conditions, including but not limited to, availability and affordability of consumer credit, interest rates, fuel prices, inflation, discretionary spending levels, unemployment rates and consumer confidence about the economy in general. Significant changes in economic conditions could adversely impact consumer demand for used vehicles. As consumer demand fluctuates, the volume and prices of used vehicles may be affected and the demand for used vehicles at auction by dealers may likewise be affected. The demand for used vehicles at auction by dealers may therefore affect the wholesale price of used vehicles and the conversion percentage of vehicles sold at auction. In addition, changes in demand for used vehicles may affect the demand for floorplan financing as well as the Company’s ability to collect existing floorplan loans. The number of new and used vehicles that are leased by consumers affects the supply of vehicles coming to auction. As manufacturers and other lenders have decreased the number of leases in the last few years and extended the lease terms of some of the leases that were written, the number of off-lease vehicles available at auction declined annually from 2003 to 2006. The number of off-lease vehicles available at auction was up modestly in 2007 and the increase continued in 2008. The Company is not able to predict manufacturers’ and lenders’ approaches to leasing and thus future volumes of off-lease vehicles may be affected based upon leasing terms and trends. The supply of off-lease vehicles coming to auction is also affected by the market value of used vehicles compared to the residual value of those vehicles per the lease terms. In most cases, the lessee and the 18 Table of Contents dealer have the ability to purchase the vehicle at the residual price at the end of the lease term. Generally, as market values of used vehicles rise, the number of vehicles purchased at residual value by the lessees and dealers increases, thus decreasing the number of off-lease vehicles available at auction. The Company is also dependent upon receiving a sufficient number of total-loss vehicles as well as recovered theft vehicles to sustain profit margins in the Company’s salvage auction business. Factors that can affect the number of vehicles received include, but are not limited to, driving patterns, mild weather conditions that cause fewer traffic accidents, reduction of policy writing by insurance providers that would affect the number of claims over a period of time, delays or changes in state title processing, and changes in direct repair procedures that would reduce the number of newer, less damaged total-loss vehicles, which tend to have higher salvage values. In addition, the Company’s salvage auction business depends on a limited number of key insurance companies to supply the salvage vehicles the Company sells at auction. The Company’s agreements with various insurance company suppliers are generally subject to cancellation by either party upon 30 to 90 days notice. There can be no assurance that the Company’s existing agreements will not be cancelled or that it will be able to enter into future agreements with these suppliers. Future decreases in the quality and quantity of vehicle inventory, and in particular the availability of newer and less damaged vehicles, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. In addition, in the last few years there has been a declining trend in theft occurrences which reduces the number of stolen vehicles covered by insurance companies for which a claim settlement has been made. The Company’s operating results may fluctuate significantly. The Company’s operating results have in the past and may in the future fluctuate significantly depending on a number of factors, many of which are beyond its control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • general business conditions, including the availability and quality of used, leased and salvage vehicles and buyer attendance at the Company’s vehicle auctions; • trends in new and used vehicle sales and incentives, including wholesale used vehicle pricing; • economic conditions including fuel prices, foreign exchange rates and interest rate fluctuations; • trends in the vehicle remarketing industry; • the introduction of new competitors; • laws, regulations and industry standards, including changes in regulations governing the sale of used vehicles, the processing of salvage vehicles and commercial lending activities; • changes in the market value of vehicles the Company auctions, including changes in the actual cash value of salvage vehicles; • competitive pricing pressures; and • costs associated with the acquisition of businesses or technologies. As a result of the above factors, the Company believes that period-to-period comparisons of results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as any indication of future performance. Furthermore, revenues for any future quarter are not predictable with any significant degree of accuracy, and the Company’s operating results may vary significantly due to its relatively fixed expense levels. Due to these factors, it is possible that in some future quarters the Company’s operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. The Company assumes the settlement risk for all vehicles sold through its auctions. The Company does not have recourse against sellers for any buyer’s failure to satisfy its debt. Since the Company’s revenues for each vehicle do not include the gross sales proceeds, failure to collect the receivables in full may result in a net loss up to the gross sales proceeds on a per vehicle basis in addition to any expenses 19 Table of Contents incurred to collect the receivables and to provide the services associated with the vehicle. Although the Company takes steps to mitigate this risk, if the Company is unable to collect payments on a large number of vehicles, the resulting payment obligations and decreased fee revenues may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates or market conditions could adversely impact the profitability and business of AFC. Rising interest rates may have the effect of depressing the sales of used vehicles because many consumers finance their vehicle purchases. In addition, AFC sells the majority of its finance receivable to a special purpose entity, which sells an undivided interest in its finance receivables to a bank conduit facility on a revolving basis. Volatility and/or market disruption in the asset-backed securities market in the U.S. can impact AFC’s cost of financing related to; or its ability to arrange financing on acceptable terms through, its securitization conduit, which could negatively affect AFC’s business and the Company’s financial condition and operations. AFC generally charges interest on its floorplan loans based on the prime rate plus a spread. Declining interest rates decrease the interest income earned on AFC’s loan portfolio. High fuel prices may have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and operating results, as well as the Company’s earnings growth rates. High fuel prices affect the demand for sport utility and full-sized vehicles which are generally not as fuel efficient as smaller vehicles. In addition, high fuel prices could lead to a reduction in the miles driven per vehicle which may reduce accident rates. Retail sales and accident rates are factors that affect the number of used and salvage vehicles sold at auction, wholesale prices of those vehicles and the conversion rates at used vehicle auctions. Additionally, high fuel costs increase the cost for the transportation and towing of vehicles. The Company may not be able to pass on such higher costs to the customers who supply vehicles to the Company’s auctions. Weather-related and other events beyond the Company’s control may adversely impact operations. Extreme weather or other events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, forest fires, floods, terrorist attacks or war, may adversely affect the overall economic environment, the markets in which the Company competes, the Company’s operations and profitability. These events may impact the Company’s physical auction facilities, causing a material increase in costs, or delays or cancellation of auction sales, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s revenues and profitability. Capacity reductions and uncertain conditions at the major U.S. original equipment manufacturers could negatively impact the industry. The Company’s financial performance depends, in part, on conditions in the automotive industry. Capacity reductions at the major U.S. original equipment manufacturers are expected to impact the industry and may result in reduced program vehicles and rental fleet sales. In addition, weak growth in or declining new vehicle sales impacts used vehicle trade-ins to dealers and auction volumes. The U.S. original equipment manufacturers have experienced declining market shares in North America and have announced significant restructuring actions in an effort to improve profitability. The U.S. automotive manufacturers are also burdened with substantial structural costs, such as pension and healthcare costs, that have impacted their profitability and labor relations and may ultimately result in severe financial difficulty, including bankruptcy. If U.S. original equipment manufacturers cannot fund their operations, or if other major customers reach a similar level of financial distress, the Company may incur significant write-offs of accounts receivable. The Company may not be able to grow if it is unable to successfully acquire and integrate other auction businesses and facilities. The used vehicle redistribution industry is considered a mature industry in which low single-digit growth is expected in industry unit sales. Acquisitions have been a significant part of the Company’s historical growth and 20 Table of Contents have enabled the Company to further broaden and diversify its service offerings. The Company’s strategy generally involves the acquisition and integration of additional physical auction sites, technologies and personnel. Acquisition of businesses requires substantial time and attention of management personnel and may also require additional equity or debt financings. Further, integration of newly established or acquired businesses is often disruptive. Since the Company has acquired or in the future may acquire one or more businesses, there can be no assurance that the Company will identify appropriate targets, will acquire such businesses on favorable terms, or will be able to successfully integrate such organizations into its business. Failure to do so could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company expects to compete against other auction groups or new industry consolidators for suitable acquisitions. If the Company is able to consummate acquisitions, such acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, and the Company could overpay for such acquisitions. In pursuing a strategy of acquiring other auctions, the Company faces other risks commonly encountered with growth through acquisitions. These risks include, but are not limited to: • incurring significantly higher capital expenditures and operating expenses; • entering new markets with which the Company is unfamiliar; • incurring potential undiscovered liabilities at acquired auctions; • failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies; • impairing relationships with employees and customers as a result of management changes; and • increasing expenses for accounting and computer systems, as well as integration difficulties. Litigation could have an adverse effect on the Company. There is no guarantee that the Company will be successful in defending itself in legal and administrative actions or in asserting the Company’s rights under various laws. In addition, the Company could incur substantial costs in defending itself or in asserting the Company’s rights in such actions. The costs and other effects of pending litigation and administrative actions against the Company cannot be determined with certainty. Although the Company currently believes that no such proceedings will have a material adverse effect, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected. The operation of the Company’s auction facilities poses certain environmental risks which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s businesses are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities concerning air quality, water quality, solid wastes and other environmental matters. In the used vehicle redistribution industry, large numbers of vehicles, including wrecked vehicles at salvage auctions, are stored at auction facilities and, during that time, releases of fuel, motor oil and other fluids may occur, resulting in soil, air, surface water or groundwater contamination. In addition, certain of the Company’s facilities generate and/or store petroleum products and other hazardous materials which are contained in aboveground or underground storage tanks located at the Company’s facilities. Some of the Company’s facilities generate waste materials, such as waste solvents or used oils, that are disposed of as non-hazardous or hazardous wastes, and body shops at the Company’s facilities may release harmful air emissions associated with painting. The Company is subject to safety and training regulations as required by local, state and federal law. While the Company has an environmental and safety compliance program that is administered by its risk management department and includes monitoring, measuring and reporting compliance, establishing safety programs and training the Company’s personnel in environmental and safety matters, environmental laws and regulations could become more stringent over time and the Company may be subject to significant compliance costs in the future. Any failure by the Company to obtain required permits or operate within regulations for, control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous or regulated substances or materials under present or future 21 Table of Contents regulations could subject the Company to substantial liability, require costly cleanup or require changes in remarketing services or auction facilities. The Company has incurred some expenditures for preventive, investigative or remedial action with respect to contamination or the use of hazardous materials, and could in the future be exposed to additional expenditures. Any liability arising from contamination at the Company’s facilities, including contamination by previous users of acquired facilities, the disposal of waste at off-site locations and other aspects of the Company’s operations could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and financial condition. On March 25, 2008, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) issued a General Notice of Potential Liability pursuant to Section 107(a) and a Request for Information pursuant to Section 104(e) of CERCLA (42 USC 9601 et. seq.) to IAAI for a Superfund site known as the Lower Duwamish Waterway Superfund Site in Seattle, Washington (the “LDW”). At this time, the EPA has not demanded that IAAI pay any funds or take any action apart from responding to the Section 104(e) Information Request. IAAI’s liability, if any, cannot be estimated at this time and therefore the Company cannot conclude that the impact will not be material. A further discussion of this matter can be found in “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of this Form 10-K. The Company faces significant competition. The Company faces significant competition for the supply of used and salvage vehicles and for the buyers of those vehicles. While competition in the used vehicle inventory floorplan financing sector is diverse and fragmented, competition is also strong in that sector. The Company faces current or potential competition from four primary sources: (i) direct competitors, (ii) potential entrants, (iii) potential new vehicle remarketing venues and dealer financing services and (iv) existing alternative vehicle remarketing venues. In both the vehicle auction and dealer financing businesses, both the Company and its competitors are working to develop new services and technologies, or improvements and modifications to existing services and technologies. Some of these competitors may have greater financial and marketing resources than the Company does, and may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging services and technologies, evolving industry trends and changes in customer requirements, and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services. In the Company’s salvage auction business, potential competitors include used car auction companies, providers of claims software to insurance companies, certain salvage buyer groups and insurance companies, some of which currently supply auto salvage to the Company. While most insurance companies have abandoned or reduced efforts to sell salvage vehicles without the use of service providers such as the Company, they may in the future decide to dispose of their salvage directly to end users. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by the Company would not have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. The Company may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, which could impair its ability to grow and achieve or sustain profitability. The Company’s business is dependent on information and technology systems. Failure to effectively maintain or update these systems could result in the Company losing customers and materially adversely affect its operating results and financial condition. Robust information systems are critical to the Company’s operating environment and competitive position. The Company may not be successful in structuring its information system infrastructure or developing, acquiring or implementing information systems which are competitive and responsive to the needs of the Company’s customers and the Company might lack sufficient resources to continue to make the significant necessary investments in information systems to compete with its competitors. Certain information systems initiatives that management considers important to the Company’s long-term success will require substantial capital investment, have significant risks associated with their execution, and could take several years to implement. 22 Table of Contents For example, the Company’s ability to provide cost-effective salvage vehicle processing solutions to its customers depends in part on its ability to effectively utilize technology to provide value-added services to its customers. The Company recently implemented a web-based operating system that allows it to offer hybrid live/ Internet auctions and to provide vehicle tracking systems and real-time status reports for its insurance company customers’ benefit, and to support and streamline vehicle registration and tracking, financial reporting, transaction settlement, vehicle title transfer and branch/headquarters communications. The Company’s ability to provide the foregoing services depends on its capacity to store, retrieve and process data, manage significant databases, and expand and periodically upgrade its information processing capabilities. As the Company continues to grow, it will need to continue to make investments in new and enhanced information and technology systems. Interruption or loss of the Company’s information processing capabilities or adverse consequences from implementing new or enhanced systems could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. As the Company’s information system providers revise and upgrade their hardware, software and equipment technology, the Company may encounter difficulties in integrating these new technologies into its business. Although the Company has experienced no significant breaches of network security by unauthorized persons, the Company’s systems may be subject to infiltration by unauthorized persons. If the Company’s systems or facilities were infiltrated and damaged by unauthorized persons, there could be a significant interruption to the Company’s ability to provide many of its electronic and web-based services to its customers. If that were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. Increased use of online wholesale auctions may diminish the Company’s supply of vehicles. Online auctions or other methods of redistribution may diminish both the quality and quantity as well as reduce the value of vehicles sold through traditional auction facilities. Although the Company offers online auctions and services as part of standard service offerings, the Company cannot predict what portion of overall sales will be conducted through online auctions or other redistribution methods in the future and what impact this may have on its auction facilities. A portion of the Company’s net income is derived from Canada, which exposes the Company to foreign exchange and other risks. Fluctuations between U.S. and Canadian currency values may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial position. In addition, there may be tax inefficiencies in repatriating cash from Canada. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 17% of the Company’s revenues were attributable to its Canadian operations. A decrease in the value of the Canadian currency relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce the Company’s profits from Canadian operations and the value of the net assets of its Canadian operations when reported in U.S. dollars in its financial statements. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which the earnings are generated may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of the Company’s reported results of operations. For purposes of accounting, the assets and liabilities of the Company’s Canadian operations, where the local currency is the functional currency, are translated using period-end exchange rates, and the revenues and expenses of the Company’s Canadian operations are translated using average exchange rates during each period. Translation gains and losses are reported in “Accumulated other comprehensive income/loss” as a component of stockholders’ equity. For a further discussion of the Company’s foreign exchange risk, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” under Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 23 Table of Contents The Company has a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in the Company’s net income. Goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition accounted for using the purchase method exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired. Current accounting standards require that goodwill no longer be amortized but instead be periodically evaluated for impairment based on the fair value of the reporting unit. A significant percentage of the Company’s total assets represents goodwill. Declines in the Company’s profitability may impact the fair value of its reporting units, which could result in a write-down of goodwill and a reduction in net income. In light of the overall economy and in particular the automotive finance industries which continue to face severe pressures, AFC and its customer dealer base have been negatively impacted. In addition, AFC has been negatively impacted by reduced interest rate spreads. As a result of reduced interest rate spreads and increased risk associated with lending in the automotive industry, AFC has tightened credit policies and experienced a decline in its portfolio of finance receivables. These factors contributed to lower operating profits and cash flows at AFC for 2008 compared to 2007. Based on that trend, the forecasted performance was revised. As a result, in the third quarter of 2008, a noncash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $161.5 million was recorded in the AFC reporting unit. The Company still has approximately $1.5 billion of goodwill on its consolidated balance sheet that could be subject to impairment. The Company could be required to recognize additional impairments in the future and such an impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the financial position and results of operations in the period of recognition. The Company is partially self-insured for certain losses. The Company self-insures a portion of employee medical benefits under the terms of its employee health insurance program, as well as a portion of its automobile, general liability and workers’ compensation claims. The Company records an accrual for the claims expense related to its employee medical benefits, automobile, general liability and workers’ compensation claims based upon the expected amount of all such claims. While the Company believes these estimates are reasonable based on the information currently available, if actual claims are higher than anticipated, its accrual might be insufficient to cover the claims costs, which would have an adverse impact on the operating results in that period. The Company’s ability to operate successfully could be impaired if it fails to attract and retain key personnel. The Company’s success depends in large part on the performance of its executive management team and other key employees, including key field personnel. If the Company loses the services of one or more of its executive officers or key employees, it may not be able to implement its business strategies and the Company’s business could suffer. The Company may have difficulty in retaining and attracting customers, developing new services, negotiating favorable agreements with customers and providing acceptable levels of customer service. Leadership changes will occur from time to time and the Company cannot predict whether significant resignations will occur. While the Company has employment agreements with certain of its executive officers, there can be no assurance that they will serve the term of their employment agreements or renew their employment agreements upon expiration. The Company does not currently expect to obtain key person insurance on any of its executive officers. In addition, if the Company fails to attract other qualified personnel, its business prospects could be materially adversely affected. The Company may not successfully implement its business strategies or realize its expected cost savings and revenue enhancements. The Company may not be able to fully implement its business strategies or realize its expected cost savings, in whole or in part, or within the time frames anticipated. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve its expected revenue synergies, including incremental buyer payment revenue. The 24 Table of Contents Company’s cost savings, efficiency improvements and pricing strategies are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. The Company is pursuing strategic initiatives that management considers critical to its long-term success, including substantial near-term capital investment in e-business, information technology, facility relocations and expansions, as well as operating initiatives designed to enhance overall efficiencies. These initiatives involve substantial capital investment, have significant risks associated with their execution, and could take several years to yield any direct monetary benefits. Committing a large amount of capital over a lengthy time horizon could result in significant business interruption and loss of key customers during the transitional period, as well as cost overruns and delays which may impact the Company’s results of operations. Accordingly, the Company cannot predict whether it will succeed in implementing these strategic initiatives. Additionally, the Company’s business strategy may change from time to time. As a result, the Company may not be able to achieve its expected results of operations and its actual income, operating cash flow and EBITDA may be negatively affected and may be materially lower than the results which are discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company is dependent on good labor relations. The Company has employees located in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. In addition to the workforce of employees, the Company also utilizes temporary labor services to assist in handling the vehicles consigned during periods of peak volume. Many of the Company’s employees, both full- and part-time, are unskilled, and in periods of strong economic growth, the Company may find it difficult to compete for sufficient unskilled labor. If the Company is unable to maintain a full- or part-time workforce or the necessary relationships with third-party providers, its operations may be adversely affected. Currently, none of the Company’s employees participate in collective bargaining agreements. In addition, auctioneers at the Company’s auctions are highly skilled individuals who are essential to the successful operation of the Company’s auction business. Nearly all of the Company’s auctioneers are independent contractors who provide their services for a daily or weekly rate. If the Company is unable to retain a sufficient number of experienced auctioneers, its operations may be adversely affected. The Company is subject to extensive governmental regulations, including vehicle brokerage and auction laws and currency reporting obligations. Failure to comply with laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The Company’s operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various U.S. and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local authorities, agencies, statutes and ordinances. The acquisition and sale of used, leased, totaled and recovered theft vehicles is regulated by state or other local motor vehicle departments in each of the locations in which the Company operates. Changes in law or governmental regulations or interpretations of existing law or regulations could result in increased costs, reduced vehicle prices and decreased profitability for the Company. In addition to the regulation of sales and acquisitions of vehicles, the Company is also subject to various local zoning requirements with regard to the location of its auction and storage facilities, which requirements vary from location to location, to lending laws and regulations and to currency reporting obligations. Failure to comply with present or future regulations or changes in existing regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. For a further discussion of the vehicle regulations applicable to the Company’s businesses, see “Vehicle and Lending Regulations” included in Item 1 “Business” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. New accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing standards could require the Company to make adjustments to accounting policies that could adversely affect the financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, and other accounting organizations or governmental entities from time to time issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that require changes to the Company’s 25 Table of Contents accounting policies and procedures. To date, the Company does not believe any new pronouncements or interpretations have had a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations, but future pronouncements or interpretations could require the change of policies or procedures. ADESA may be subject to risks in connection with its former relationship with and separation from ALLETE. ADESA and ALLETE, Inc., ADESA’s former parent company, entered into a tax sharing agreement, effective on the date of the spin-off, which governs ALLETE’s and ADESA’s respective rights, responsibilities and obligations after the spin-off with respect to taxes for the periods ending on or before the spin-off. Under the tax sharing agreement, if the spin-off becomes taxable to ALLETE, ADESA may be required to indemnify ALLETE for any taxes which arise as a result of ADESA’s actions or inaction. In addition, ADESA has agreed to indemnify ALLETE for 50 percent of any taxes that do not arise as a result of actions or inaction of either ADESA or ALLETE. The Company is, and may in the future may be, subject to patent or other intellectual property infringement claims, which could have an impact on its business or operating results due to a disruption in its business operations, the incurrence of significant costs and other factors. From time to time, the Company may receive notices from others claiming that it infringed their patent or intellectual property rights, and the number of these claims could increase in the future. Claims of patent infringement could require the Company to enter into licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question, which could require the Company to change business practices and limit its ability to compete effectively. Even if the Company believes that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and may divert management’s attention and resources away from the Company’s businesses. If the Company is required to take any of these actions, it could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and operating results. The Company is controlled by the Equity Sponsors, and their interests as equity holders may not be aligned with your interests. GS Capital Partners VI Fund, L.P., Kelso Investment Associates VII, L.P., Parthenon Investors II, L.P. and Value Act Capital Master Fund, L.P. own, through their respective affiliates, including certain affiliated private equity funds, substantially all of the Company’s equity. The Equity Sponsors can elect all of the Company’s directors, appoint new management and approve any action requiring the vote of the Company’s outstanding common stock, including amendments of its articles of incorporation, mergers or sales of substantially all assets. The directors elected by the Equity Sponsors may be able to make decisions affecting the capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock and incur additional debt. The interests of the equity holders may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of the Company’s noteholders. For example, if the Company encounters financial difficulties or is unable to pay its debts as they mature, the interests of the Company’s equity holders might conflict with your interests as a noteholder. In addition, the Company’s equity holders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to the Company’s noteholders. RISKS RELATED TO THE NOTES The Company has a substantial amount of debt, which could impair its financial condition and adversely affect its ability to react to changes in its business and fulfill its obligations under the Notes. As of December 31, 2008, the Company’s total debt was approximately $2.5 billion and the Company has $300.0 million of borrowing capacity under its senior secured credit facilities. The Company’s substantial indebtedness could have important consequences including: • making it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations with respect to the Notes; 26 Table of Contents • limiting the Company’s ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of the Company’s business strategy, acquisitions and other purposes; • requiring the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on debt, which would reduce the funds available to the Company for other purposes, including funding future expansion; • making the Company more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, in government regulation and in the Company’s business by limiting its flexibility in planning for, and making it more difficult to react quickly to, changing conditions; and • exposing the Company to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of its borrowings, including borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expenses in the event of increases in interest rates. Restrictive covenants in agreements and instruments governing the Company’s debt, including the indentures governing the Notes, may adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate its business. The indentures governing the Notes and the agreement governing the Company’s senior secured credit facilities contain, and future debt instruments may contain, various provisions that limit the Company’s ability and the ability of its restricted subsidiaries, including ADESA and IAAI, to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • make loans, investments and capital expenditures; • incur liens; • pay dividends or make other payments by the Company’s restricted subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • sell assets and capital stock of the Company’s subsidiaries; and • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of the Company’s assets to, another person. The Company’s senior secured credit facilities are secured, and the Company’s bank lenders and future secured creditors have a prior claim on the Company’s assets to the extent of the value of the collateral securing their claims. Similarly, holders of the guarantors’ existing and future secured indebtedness have a prior claim on the guarantors’ assets that secure such indebtedness. The Notes and the guarantees will not be secured by any of the Company’s assets. Holders of the Company’s secured indebtedness and the secured indebtedness of the guarantors will have claims that are prior to claims of holders of the Notes to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. The Company and the guarantors, will be party to senior secured credit facilities, which will be secured by a significant portion of the Company’s assets, including a pledge of all of the Company’s capital stock and the capital stock of all of the direct and indirect material domestic subsidiaries and 65% of the capital stock of the Company’s first tier foreign subsidiaries. In the event of any distribution or payment of the Company’s assets in any foreclosure, dissolution, winding-up, liquidation, reorganization or other bankruptcy proceeding, holders of the secured indebtedness will have prior claim to the Company’s assets that constitute their collateral. Holders of the Notes 27 Table of Contents will participate ratably with all holders of the Company’s unsecured indebtedness that is deemed to be of the same class as the Notes. In that event, because the Notes and the guarantees will not be secured by any of the Company’s assets, it is possible that the Company’s remaining assets might be insufficient to satisfy claims in full. As of December 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of the Company’s senior secured indebtedness, on a consolidated basis, was approximately $1,497.9 million, and $300.0 million was available for additional borrowing under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities. The Company is permitted to borrow substantial additional secured indebtedness in the future under the terms of the indentures. If the Company’s subsidiaries do not make sufficient distributions, the Company will not be able to make payment on any of its debt, including the Notes. In addition, the structural subordination of the Notes to certain of the Company’s subsidiaries’ liabilities may limit the Company’s ability to make payment on the Notes. KAR Holdings is a holding company with no business operations, sources of income or assets other than ownership interests in its subsidiaries. Because all of the Company’s operations are conducted by its subsidiaries, the Company’s cash flow and the ability to make payments on its debt, including the Notes, is dependent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from its subsidiaries. In addition, any payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances by the subsidiaries to KAR Holdings could be subject to restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company’s subsidiaries operate, and any restrictions imposed by the current and future debt instruments of the subsidiaries. Some of the Company’s subsidiaries, including existing and future foreign subsidiaries, will not guarantee the Notes. The Notes will be structurally subordinated to all existing or future liabilities and preferred equity of these subsidiaries that do not guarantee the Notes. In the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or similar proceeding with respect to any such subsidiary, the Company, as a common equity owner of such subsidiary, and, therefore, holders of the Company’s debt, including holders of the Notes, will be subject to the prior claims of such subsidiary’s creditors, including trade creditors, and preferred equity holders. As of December 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of liabilities of the Company’s subsidiaries that will not guarantee the Notes, including trade and other payables, was $182.3 million. For the twelve months ending December 31, 2008, the Company’s subsidiaries that will not guarantee the Notes represented approximately 14.4% of its total assets and approximately 21.4% of its total revenues, in each case before intercompany eliminations. If the Company defaults on obligations to pay its other indebtedness or otherwise fails to comply with covenants in the instruments governing its other indebtedness, the Company may not be able to make payments on the Notes. Any default under the agreements governing the Company’s indebtedness, including a default under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities that is not waived by the required lenders, could make the Company unable to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes and substantially decrease the market value of the Notes. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow and is otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on its other indebtedness, the Company could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the Company’s senior secured credit facilities require the Company to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. A breach of any these financial, operating or other covenants could result in a default. In the event of any such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be due and payable and the lenders under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities could elect to terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the Company is unable to repay those amounts, such holders or lenders could institute foreclosure proceedings against the Company’s assets, which could force the Company into bankruptcy or liquidation. 28 Table of Contents The Company requires a significant amount of cash to service all of its indebtedness, including the Notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures, and the Company’s ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond its control. The Company’s ability to make payments on and refinance debt, including the Notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on its ability to generate cash in the future. To some extent, this is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. The Company’s business may not generate cash from operations at levels sufficient to permit it to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on its indebtedness, and the Company’s cash needs may increase. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash from operations to service its debt and meet other cash needs, the Company may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance its indebtedness, including the Notes. The Company may not be able to take any of these actions. The Company may not be able to refinance its debt or sell additional debt or equity securities or its assets on favorable terms, if at all, particularly because of the Company’s high levels of debt and the restrictions imposed by the agreement governing the Company’s senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the Notes on the Company’s ability to incur additional debt and use the proceeds from asset sales. If the Company must sell its assets, it may negatively affect its ability to generate revenue. The inability to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and on its ability to meet obligations under the Notes. If the Company cannot make scheduled payments on its debt, it would be in default and, as a result: • the Company’s debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; • the lenders under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities could terminate their commitments to lend the Company money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and • the Company could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation, which could result in the Company losing its investment in the Notes. The right to receive payments on the Senior Subordinated Notes is junior to the Company’s existing indebtedness and possibly all of the Company’s future borrowings. Further, the guarantees of the Senior Subordinated Notes are junior to all of the Company’s guarantors’ existing indebtedness and possibly to all their future borrowings. The Senior Subordinated Notes and the guarantees thereof rank behind all of the Company’s and the guarantors’ existing indebtedness (other than trade payables) and all of the Company’s and the guarantors’ future borrowings (other than trade payables), except any future indebtedness that expressly provides that it ranks equal with, or subordinated in right of payment to, the Senior Subordinated Notes and the related subsidiary guarantees. As a result, upon any distribution to the Company’s creditors or the creditors of the guarantors in a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization or similar proceeding relating to the Company or the guarantors or the Company’s or the guarantors’ property, the holders of the Company’s senior debt and that of the guarantors will be entitled to be paid in full and in cash before any payment may be made with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes or the guarantees thereof. In addition, all payments on the Senior Subordinated Notes and the guarantees thereof will be blocked in the event of a payment default on certain senior debt and may be blocked for up to 179 of 360 consecutive days in the event of certain non-payment defaults on certain senior debt. In the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization or similar proceeding relating to the Company or the guarantors, holders of the Senior Subordinated Notes will participate with trade creditors and all other holders of the Company’s and the guarantors’ subordinated indebtedness in the assets remaining after the Company and the guarantors have paid all of the Company’s senior debt. However, because the indenture governing the Senior 29 Table of Contents Subordinated Notes requires that amounts otherwise payable to holders of the senior subordinated notes in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding be paid to holders of senior debt instead, holders of the senior subordinated notes may receive less, ratably, than holders of trade payables in any such proceeding. In any of these cases, the Company and the guarantors may not have sufficient funds to pay all of the Company’s creditors and holders of senior subordinated notes may receive less, ratably, than the holders of the Company’s senior debt. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately $2,097.9 million of senior indebtedness, including the Senior Restricted Notes, and $300.0 million was available for borrowing as additional senior debt under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities. The Company is permitted to borrow substantial additional indebtedness, including senior debt, in the future under the terms of the indentures. The Company may not be able to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control. Upon a change of control, as defined in the indentures, subject to certain conditions, the Company will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding Notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase. The source of funds for that purchase of Notes will be the Company’s available cash or cash generated from its subsidiaries’ operations or other potential sources, including borrowings, sales of assets or sales of equity. The Company cannot assure that sufficient funds from such sources will be available at the time of any change of control to make required repurchases of Notes tendered. Further, the Company may be contractually restricted under the terms of its senior secured credit facilities or other future senior indebtedness from repurchasing all of the Notes tendered by holders upon a change of control. The Company’s future debt agreements may contain similar restrictions and provisions. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to satisfy its obligations to purchase the Notes unless it is able to refinance or obtain waivers under its senior secured credit facilities and any such future debt agreements. The Company’s failure to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control would cause a default under the indenture and a cross-default under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities. In addition, certain corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalizations that would increase the level of the Company’s indebtedness, would not constitute a change of control under the indentures. Fraudulent transfer statutes may limit the rights of a holder of the Notes. Federal and state fraudulent transfer laws permit a court, if it makes certain findings, to: • void all or a portion of the Company’s obligations to holders of the Notes; • subordinate the Company’s obligations to holders of the Notes to the Company’s other existing and future indebtedness, entitling other creditors to be paid in full before any payment is made on the Notes; and • take other action detrimental to holders of the Notes, including invalidating the Notes. In that event, the Company cannot assure that the holder would ever be repaid. Under federal and state fraudulent transfer laws, in order to take any of those actions, courts will typically need to find that, at the time the Notes were issued, the Company: (1) issued the Notes with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding current or future creditors; or (2) received less than fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value for incurring the indebtedness represented by the Notes; and (a) were insolvent or were rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the Notes; (b) were engaged, or were about to engage, in a business or transaction for which the Company’s assets were unreasonably small; or (c) intended to incur, or believed or should have believed the Company would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay as such debts mature. 30 Table of Contents Many of the foregoing terms are defined in or interpreted under those fraudulent transfer statutes. A court would likely find that the Company or a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the Notes or such guarantee if the Company or such guarantor did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the issuance of the Notes or the applicable guarantee. As a general matter, value is given for a transfer or an obligation if, in exchange for the transfer or obligation, property is transferred or an antecedent debt is secured or satisfied. A debtor will generally not be considered to have received value in connection with a debt offering if the debtor uses the proceeds of that offering to make a dividend payment or otherwise retire or redeem equity securities issued by the debtor. The measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing considerations will vary depending on the law of the jurisdiction that is being applied in any such proceeding. Generally, a company would be considered insolvent if, at the time it incurred the debt: • the sum of its debts (including contingent liabilities) is greater than its assets, at fair valuation; • the present fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount required to pay the probable liability on its total existing debts and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) as they become absolute and matured; or • it could not pay its debts as they become due. The Company cannot assure what standard a court would apply in determining its solvency and whether it would conclude that the Company was solvent when it incurred its obligations under the Notes. The Company’s obligations under the Notes are guaranteed by all of its direct and indirect restricted subsidiaries that guarantee indebtedness under the Company’s senior secured credit facilities, and the guarantees may also be subject to review under various laws for the protection of creditors. It is possible that creditors of the guarantors may challenge the guarantees as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. The analysis set forth above would generally apply, except that the guarantees could also be subject to the claim that, because the guarantees were incurred for the benefit of the issuer, and only indirectly for the benefit of the guarantors, the obligations of the guarantors thereunder were incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration. A court could void a guarantor’s obligation under its guarantee, subordinate the guarantee to the other indebtedness of a guarantor, direct that holders of the Notes return any amounts paid under a guarantee to the relevant guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of its creditors, or take other action detrimental to the holders of Notes. In addition, the liability of each guarantor under the indenture will be limited to the amount that will result in its guarantee not constituting a fraudulent conveyance or improper corporate distribution, and there can be no assurance as to what standard a court would apply in making a determination as to what would be the maximum liability of each guarantor. The Company does not know if a market will be sustained for the Notes. The Company has not and does not intend to apply for listing or quotation of any series of Notes on any securities exchange or stock market. The liquidity of any market for the Notes depends on a number of factors, including: • the number of holders of Notes; • the Company’s operating performance and financial condition; • the market for similar securities; • the interest of securities dealers in making a market in the Notes; and • prevailing interest rates. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 31 Table of Contents 