RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Argentina Overview We are a stock corporation (sociedad anónima) incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Argentina and substantially all of our revenues are earned in Argentina and substantially all of our operations, facilities, and customers are located in Argentina. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations depend to a significant extent on macroeconomic, regulatory, political and financial conditions prevailing in Argentina, including growth, inflation rates, currency exchange rates, interest rates, and other local, regional and international events and conditions that may affect Argentina in any manner. For example, slower economic growth or economic recession could lead to a decreased demand for electricity in our concession area or a decline in the purchasing power of our customers, which, in turn, could lead to a decrease in collection rates from our customers or increased energy losses due to illegal use of our service. Actions of the Argentine Government concerning the economy, including decisions with respect to inflation, interest rates, price controls, foreign exchange controls and taxes, have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on private sector entities, including us. For example, during the Argentine economic crisis of 2001, the Argentine Government froze electricity distribution margins and caused the pesification of our tariffs, which had a materially adverse effect on our business and financial condition and led us to suspend payments on our financial debt at the time. We cannot assure you that the Argentine Government will not adopt other policies that could adversely affect the Argentine economy or our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that future economic, regulatory, social and political developments in Argentina will not impair our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause the market value of our ADSs and Class B common shares to decline. A global financial crisis and unfavorable credit and market conditions may negatively affect our liquidity, customers, business, and results of operations The effects of a global credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, an impact that is likely to be more severe on an emerging market economy, such as Argentina. The effect of this economic crisis on our customers and on us cannot be predicted. Weak economic conditions could lead to reduced demand or lower prices for energy, which could have a negative effect on our revenues. Economic factors such as unemployment, inflation levels and the availability of credit could also have a material adverse effect on demand for energy and therefore on our financial condition and operating results. The financial and economic situation may also have a negative impact on third parties with whom we do, or may do, business. In addition, our ability to access credit or capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would need financing, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions (See Risk Factors – “Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth, and consequently, may affect our business, results of operations and prospects for growth”). For these reasons, any of the foregoing factors or a combination of these factors could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and cause the market value of our ADSs and Class B common shares to decline. The Argentine economy remains fragile and any significant decline could adversely affect our financial condition Sustainable economic growth in Argentina is dependent on a variety of factors, including international demand for Argentine exports, the stability and competitiveness of the Argentine Peso against foreign currencies, confidence among consumers and foreign and domestic investors and a stable rate of inflation. The Argentine economy remains fragile, as reflected by the following economic conditions: · GDP growth has declined and employment is beginning to show some signals of weakness; · inflation has accelerated recently and threatens to continue at those levels; · investment as a percentage of GDP remains too low to sustain the growth rate of recent years; 12 Table of Contents · the availability of long-term credit is scarce, while international financing remains limited; · the regulatory environment continues to be uncertain; · in the climate created by the above conditions, demand for foreign currency has grown, generating a capital flight effect to which the Argentine Government has responded with regulations and currency exchange and transfer restrictions, and it is widely reported that in other countries where the Peso is traded, the Peso/U.S. Dollar exchange rate differs substantially from the official exchange rate in Argentina; and · previous GDP performance has depended to some extent on high commodity prices which, despite having a favorable long-term trend, are volatile in the short-term and beyond the control of the Argentine Government. As in the recent past, Argentina’s economy may be adversely affected if political and social pressures inhibit the implementation by the Argentine Government of policies designed to control inflation, generate growth and enhance consumer and investor confidence, or if policies implemented by the Argentine Government that are designed to achieve these goals are not successful. These events could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, or cause the market value of our ADSs and our Class B common shares to decline. As public finances became increasingly tight, the Argentine Government decided to revise its subsidy policies, particularly those related to energy, electricity and gas, water and public transportation. However, as economic growth has not reached the levels of previous years (on average, GDP grew close to 8.0% per year between 2003 and 2010) and inflation has continued to increase, the manner in which the Argentine Government has revised those policies has been affected. As ultimately implemented, the revised policies will not have an impact on companies’ revenues but could affect the timing of the revision of the tariff process, and generate a strong negative impact on economic activity and an increase in prices, considering that they would be put into effect in a context of subpar growth, high inflation and capital flight. We cannot assure you that a decline in economic growth, increased economic instability, or the expansion of economic policies and measures taken by the Argentine Government that affect private sector enterprises such as us, all developments over which we have no control, would not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or would not have a negative impact on the market value of our ADSs and our Class B common shares. The impact of inflation in Argentina on our costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations Inflation has, in the past, materially undermined the Argentine economy and the Argentine Government’s ability to create conditions that permit growth. In recent years, Argentina has confronted inflationary pressure, evidenced by significantly higher fuel, energy and food prices, among other factors. According to data published by the Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censos (National Statistics and Census Institute or INDEC), the rate of inflation reached 10.9% in 2010, 9.5% in 2011 and 10.8% in 2012. The Argentine Government has implemented programs to control inflation and monitor prices for essential goods and services, including freezing the prices of supermarket products, and price support arrangements agreed between the Argentine Government and private sector companies in several industries and markets. A high inflation environment would undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the Argentine Peso devaluation, negatively impact the level of economic activity and employment and undermine confidence in Argentina’s banking system, which could further limit the availability of domestic and international credit to businesses. In turn, a portion of the Argentine debt is adjusted by the Coeficiente de Estabilización de Referencia (Stabilization Coefficient, or “CER”), a currency index, that is strongly related to inflation. Therefore, any significant increase in inflation would cause an increase in the Argentine external debt and consequently in Argentina’s financial obligations, which could exacerbate the stress on the Argentine economy. A continuing high inflation environment could undermine our results of operations as a result of a delay in our ability to, or our inability to, adjust our tariffs accordingly and could adversely affect our ability to finance the working capital needs of our businesses on favorable terms, and adversely affect our results of operations and cause the market value of our ADSs and Class B common shares to decline. 13 Table of Contents The credibility of several Argentine economic indexes has been called into question, which may lead to a lack of confidence in the Argentine economy and may in turn limit our ability to access the credit and capital markets In January 2007, INDEC modified its methodology used to calculate the consumer price index (the “CPI”), which is calculated as the monthly average of a weighted basket of consumer goods and services that reflects the pattern of consumption of Argentine households. Since then, the credibility of the CPI, as well as other indexes published by the INDEC has been affected. As a result of the uncertainty relating to the accuracy of INDEC indexes, the inflation rate of Argentina and the other rates calculated by INDEC could be higher than as indicated in official reports. Beginning November 23, 2010, the Argentine government consulted with the IMF for technical assistance in order to prepare a new national consumer price index with the aim of modernizing the current statistical system. During the first quarter of 2011, a team from the IMF started working in conjunction with the INDEC to create such new national consumer price index. Notwithstanding the foregoing, reports published by the IMF state that their staff also uses alternative measures of inflation for macroeconomic surveillance, including data produced by private sources, which have shown inflation rates considerably higher than those issued by the INDEC since 2007, and the IMF has called on Argentina to adopt remedial measures to address the quality of official data. In its meeting held on February 1, 2013, the Executive Board of the IMF found that Argentina’s progress in implementing remedial measures since September 2012 has not been sufficient, and as a result, the IMF issued a declaration of censure against Argentina in connection with its breach of its related obligations to the IMF under the Articles of Agreement, and called on Argentina to adopt remedial measures to address the inaccuracy of inflation and GDP data without further delay. Any required correction or restatement of the INDEC indexes could result in a significant further decrease in confidence in Argentina’s economy, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our ability to access international capital markets to finance our operations and growth, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and cause the market value of our ADSs and Class B common shares to decline. Given the limited credit available to emerging market nations as a result of the global economic crisis, our ability to access credit in the capital markets could be limited by the uncertainty relating to the inaccuracy of the economic indexes and rates in question which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions and cause the market value of our ADSs and class B common shares to decline. Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth, and consequently, may affect our business, results of operations and prospects for growth In 2005, Argentina restructured part of its sovereign debt that had been in default since the end of 2001. The Argentine Government announced that as a result of this restructuring, it had approximately U.S.$129.2 billion in total gross public debt as of December 31, 2005. Holdout creditors that declined to participate in the exchanges commenced numerous lawsuits against Argentina in several countries, including the United States, Italy, Germany, and Japan. These lawsuits generally assert that Argentina has failed to make timely payments of interest and/or principal on their bonds, and seek judgments for the face value of and/or accrued interest on those bonds. Judgments have been issued in several proceedings but to date judgment creditors have not succeeded in having those judgments enforced. In at least one case, plaintiffs have asserted that allowing Argentina to make payments under its newly issued bonds and remain in default on its pre-2002 bonds violates the pari passu clause in the original bonds and entitles the plaintiffs to enjoin such payments. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has ruled in the case that the ranking clause in bonds issued by Argentina prevents Argentina from making such payments unless it makes pro rata payments in respect of defaulted debt that ranks pari passu with the performing bonds. The judgment has been appealed, and we cannot predict when or in what form a final appellate decision will be granted. 14 Table of Contents In September 2008, Argentina announced its intention to cancel its external public debt to Paris Club creditor nations using reserves of the Banco Central de la República Argentina ( the Argentine Central Bank, or the “Central Bank”) in an amount equal to approximately U.S. $6.5 billion. However, as of the date of this annual report, the Argentine Government has not yet cancelled such debt. Indeed, negotiations in this respect remain stagnant. If no agreement with the Paris Club creditor nations is reached, financing from multilateral financial institutions may be limited or not available, which could adversely affect economic growth in Argentina and Argentina’s public finances. Certain groups of holders that did not participate in the 2005 restructuring have filed claims against Argentina and it is possible that new claims will be filed in the future. In addition, foreign shareholders of several Argentine companies have filed claims before the ICSID alleging that certain government measures adopted during the country’s 2001 crisis were inconsistent with the fair and equitable treatment standards set forth in various bilateral investment treaties to which Argentina is a party. Since May 2005, the ICSID tribunals have issued several awards against Argentina. Only the cases “CMS v. Argentina”, “Azurix v. Argentina” and “Vivendi v. Argentina” are currently final and unappealable, which decisions required that the Argentine Government pay U.S. $133.2 million, U.S. $165.2 million and U.S. $105 million, respectively. As of the date of this annual report, Argentina has not yet paid the amounts referred to above. On April 30, 2010, Argentina launched a new debt exchange to holders of the securities issued in the 2005 debt exchange and to holders of the securities that were eligible to participate in the 2005 debt exchange (other than Brady bonds) to exchange such debt for new securities and, in certain cases, a cash payment. As a result of the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers, Argentina restructured over 91% of the defaulted debt eligible for the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers. The creditors who did not participate in the 2005 or 2010 exchange offers may continue with legal action against Argentina for the recovery of debt, which could adversely affect Argentina’s access to the international capital markets. Argentina’s past default and its failure to restructure completely its remaining sovereign debt and fully negotiate with the holdout creditors may limit Argentina’s ability to reenter the international capital markets. Litigation initiated by holdout creditors as well as ICSID claims have resulted and may continue to result in judgments and awards against the Argentine Government which, if not paid, could prevent Argentina from obtaining credit from multilateral organizations. Judgment creditors have sought and may continue to seek to attach or enjoin assets of Argentina. A recent example of this is the Libertad Frigate case, in which a commercial court in Accra, Ghana, granted an order (which has been overturned) to detain an Argentine ship which had entered the Accra port on a routine trip. In addition, various creditors have organized themselves into associations to engage in lobbying and public relations concerning Argentina’s default on its public indebtedness. Such groups have over the years unsuccessfully urged passage of federal and New York state legislation directed at Argentina’s defaulted debt and aimed at limiting Argentina’s access to the U.S. capital markets. Although neither the United States Congress nor the New York state legislature has adopted such legislation, we can make no assurance that legislation or other political actions designed to limit Argentina’s access to capital markets will not take effect. As a result of Argentina’s default and the events that have followed it, the government may not have the financial resources necessary to implement reforms and foster economic growth, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the country’s economy and, consequently, our businesses and results of operations. Furthermore, Argentina’s inability to obtain credit in international markets could have a direct impact on our own ability to access international credit markets to finance our operations and growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and cause the market value of our ADSs and our Class B common shares to decline. 15 Table of Contents Significant fluctuations in the value of the Argentine Peso could adversely affect the Argentine economy, which could, in turn adversely affect our results of operations The devaluation of the Argentine Peso could have a negative impact on the financial condition of many Argentine businesses including us. Such situation could negatively impact the ability of Argentine businesses to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, lead to very high inflation and, significantly reduce real wages, jeopardize the stability of businesses whose success is dependent on domestic market demand, including public utilities and the financial industry, and adversely affect the Argentine Government’s ability to honor its foreign debt obligations. If the Argentine Peso devalues significantly, the negative effects on the Argentine economy could have adverse consequences to our businesses, our results of operations and the market value of our ADSs, including as measured in U.S. Dollars. On the other hand, a substantial increase in the value of the Argentine Peso against the U.S. Dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy, including the possibility of a reduction in exports (as a consequence of the loss of external competitiveness). Any such increase could also have a negative effect on economic growth and employment, reduce the Argentine public sector’s revenues from tax collection in real terms, and have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and the market value of our ADSs as a result of the weakening of the Argentine economy in general. Certain measures that may be taken by the Argentine Government may adversely affect the Argentine economy and, as a result, our business and results of operations In November 2008, the Argentine Government enacted Law No. 26,425 which provided for the nationalization of the Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones (the “AFJPs”) (See Risk Factors “The nationalization of Argentina’s private pension funds caused an adverse effect in the Argentine capital markets and increased the Argentine Government’s interest in certain stock exchange listed companies, such that the Argentine Government became a significant shareholder of such companies”). More recently, beginning in April 2012, the Argentine Government provided for the nationalization of YPF S.A. and imposed major changes to the system under which oil companies operate, principally through the enactment of Law No. 26,741 and Decree No. 1277/2012. Additionally, on December 19, 2012, the Argentine Government issued Decree No. 2552/2012 which, in its article 2, ordered the expropriation of the “Predio Rural de Palermo”. However, on January 4, 2013, the Federal Civil and Commercial Chamber granted an injunction that has temporarily blocked the application of Decree No. 2552/2012. We cannot assure you that these or other measures that may be adopted by the Argentine Government, such as expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, new taxation policies, changes in laws, regulations and policies affecting foreign trade, investment, etc, will not have a material adverse effect on the Argentine economy and, as a consequence, adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations and the market value of our shares and ADSs. 16 Table of Contents Exchange controls and restrictions on capital inflows and outflows may continue to limit the availability of international credit and could threaten the financial system and lead to renewed political and social tensions, adversely affecting the Argentine economy, and, as a result, our business. In 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions, substantially limiting the ability of companies to retain foreign currency or make payments abroad. After 2002, these restrictions, including those requiring the Central Bank’s prior authorization for the transfer of funds abroad to pay principal and interest on debt obligations, were substantially eased through 2007. Since the last quarter of 2011, however, regulations were issued making foreign exchange transactions subject to the prior approval of the Argentine tax authorities. Through a combination of foreign exchange and tax regulations, the Argentine authorities have significantly curtailed access to foreign exchange by individuals and private sector entities. Since the enhancement of exchange controls began in late 2011, and upon the introduction of measures that have practically closed the foreign exchange market to retail transactions, it is widely reported that the peso/U.S. dollar exchange rate in the unofficial market substantially differs from the official foreign exchange rate. See “Exchange Rates” and “Item 10. Exchange Controls.” In addition to the foreign exchange restrictions, in June 2005 the Argentine Government adopted various rules and regulations that established new restrictive controls on capital inflows into the country, including a requirement that for certain funds remitted into Argentina an amount equal to 30% of the funds must be deposited into an account with a local financial institution as a U.S. Dollar deposit for a one-year period without any accrual of interest, benefit or other use as collateral for any transaction. The Argentine Government could impose new exchange controls or restrictions on the movement of capital and take other measures that could limit our ability to access the international capital markets and impair our ability to make interest or principal payments abroad or payments. Argentina may re-impose exchange controls, transfer restrictions or other measures in the future in response to capital flight or a significant depreciation of the Peso. The Argentine Government could impose further exchange controls, transfer restrictions or restrictions on the movement of capital, and/or take other measures in response to capital flight or a significant depreciation of the Peso, which could limit our ability to access the international capital markets, and could lead to renewed political and social tensions and undermine the Argentine Government’s public finances, which could adversely affect Argentina’s economy and prospects for economic growth, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and the market value of our shares and ADSs. In addition, the Argentine Government or the Central Bank may reenact certain restrictions on the transfers of funds abroad, impairing our ability to make dividend payments to holders of the ADSs, which may adversely affect the market value of our ADSs. As of the date of this annual report, however, the transfer of funds abroad to pay dividends is permitted to the extent such dividend payments are made in connection with audited financial statements approved by a shareholders’ meeting. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as of the date of this annual report, in light of applicable regulations the financial situation of the Company does not permit the payment of dividends. The nationalization of Argentina’s private pension funds caused an adverse effect in the Argentine capital markets and increased the Argentine Government’s interest in certain stock exchange, such that the Argentine Government became a significant shareholder of such companies In recent years a significant portion of the local demand for securities of Argentine companies came from the Argentine private pension funds. In response to the global economic crisis, in December 2008, by means of Argentine Law No. 26,425, the Argentine Congress unified the Argentine pension and retirement system into a system publicly administered by the Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social (the National Social Security Agency, or “ANSES”), eliminating the pension and retirement system previously administered by private managers. In accordance with the new law, private pension managers transferred all of the assets administered by them under the pension and retirement system to the ANSES. With the nationalization of Argentina’s private pension funds, the Argentine Government became a significant shareholder in many of the country’s public companies. In April 2011, the Argentine Government lifted certain restrictions pursuant to which ANSES was prevented from exercising more than 5% of its voting rights in any stock exchange listed company (regardless of the equity interest held by ANSES in such companies). ANSES has publicly stated that it intends to exercise its voting rights in excess of such 5% limit in order to appoint directors in different stock exchange listed companies in which it holds an interest exceeding 5%. ANSES’ interests may differ from those of other investors, and consequently, those investors may understand that ANSES’ actions might have an adverse effect on such companies. As of the date of this annual report ANSES, owns shares representing 20.96% of the capital stock of our subsidiary Emdersa and 26.8% of the capital stock of Edenor. 17 Table of Contents The Argentine Government has stated its intention to exert a stronger influence on the operation of stock exchange listed companies. We cannot assure you that these or other similar actions taken by the Argentine Government will not have an adverse effect on the Argentine economy and consequently on our financial condition and results of operations. The Argentine economy could be adversely affected by economic developments in other markets and by more general “contagion” effects Argentine financial and securities markets are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and financial conditions in other markets. Argentina’s economy remains vulnerable to external shocks, including those related or similar to the global economic crisis that began in 2008 and the recent uncertainties surrounding European sovereign debt. For example, the recent challenges faced by the European Union to stabilize certain of its member economies, such as Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, have had international implications affecting the stability of global financial markets, which has hindered economies worldwide. Should measures taken by the European Union be insufficient to restore confidence and stability to the financial markets, any recovery of the global economy, including the U.S. and European Union economies, could be hindered or reversed, which could negatively affect the Argentine economy, and in turn our business and results of operations. Although economic conditions can vary from country to country, investors’ perception of the events occurring in other countries have in the past substantially affected, and may continue to substantially affect capital flows to other countries and the value of securities in other countries, including Argentina. The Argentine economy was adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies in the 1990s, including those in Mexico in 1994, the collapse of several Asian economies between 1997 and 1998, the economic crisis in Russia in 1998 and the Brazilian devaluation of its currency in January 1999. In addition, international investors’ reactions to events occurring in one market sometimes demonstrate a “contagion” effect in which an entire region or class of investment is disfavored by international investors, Argentina could be adversely affected by negative economic or financial developments in other countries, which in turn may have material adverse effect on the Argentine economy and, indirectly, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the market value of our ADSs. Argentina’s economy is vulnerable to external shocks that could be caused by significant economic difficulties of its major regional trading partners. Argentina’s economy is vulnerable to adverse developments affecting its principal trading partners. A significant decline in the economic growth of any of Argentina’s major trading partners, such as Brazil, China or the United States, could have a material adverse impact on Argentina’s balance of trade and adversely affect Argentina’s economic growth. Recent economic slowdowns, especially in Brazil and China, have led to declines in Argentine exports. Declining demand for Argentine exports, or a decline in the international market prices for those products, could have a material adverse effect on Argentina’s economic growth. 18 Table of Contents The actions taken by the Argentine Government to reduce imports may affect our ability to purchase significant capital goods. The Argentine Government has recently adopted some initiatives designed to limit the import of goods in order to prevent further deterioration of the Argentine balance of trade. The restriction of imports may limit our ability to purchase capital goods that are necessary for our operations, which may, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to the Electricity Distribution Sector The Argentine Government has intervened in the electricity sector in the past, and is likely to continue intervening To address the Argentine economic crisis in 2001 and 2002, the Argentine Government adopted the Public Emergency Law and other regulations, which made a number of material changes to the regulatory framework applicable to the electricity sector. These changes severely affected electricity generation, distribution and transmission companies and included the freezing of distribution nominal margins, the revocation of adjustment and inflation indexation mechanisms of tariffs, a limitation on the ability of electricity distribution companies to pass on to the consumer increases in costs due to regulatory charges and the introduction of a new price-setting mechanism in the wholesale electricity market (the “WEM”) which had a significant impact on electricity generators and generated substantial price differences within the market. The Argentine Government continues to intervene in this sector, including by granting temporary nominal margin increases, proposing a new social tariff regime for residents of poverty-stricken areas, creating specific charges to raise funds that are transferred to government-managed trust funds that finance investments in generation and distribution infrastructure and mandating investments for the construction of new generation plants and the expansion of existing transmission and distribution networks. Furthermore, on November 15, 2011, the Secretariat of Energy issued Note 8752, which provided that any approval by the provincial governments of increases to the electricity tariffs applicable to end-users as of November 1, 2011 will trigger a proportionate decrease in the federal subsidy available to that end-user in connection with the purchase of electricity. Since the issuance of Note 8752, certain provincial governments have initiated legal proceedings to challenge the jurisdiction of the Secretariat of Energy to issue Note 8752, particularly because of the potential chilling effect that this regulation may have on the ability of the provincial governments to increase electricity tariffs. These proceedings have not been resolved as of the date of this annual report. In addition to the foregoing, several provincial governments have recently enacted new regulations in order to charge electricity end-users amounts corresponding to the cuts in the federal subsidy. On November 27, 2012, the Secretariat of Energy issued Resolution 2016, which approved the seasonal WEM prices – subsidized and not subsidized − for the period of November 2012 through April 2013. The Subsidizes WEM Seasonal Reference Price was established at Ps. 320 per MWh. Each local authority is to define the local prices to be included in the local distributor’s tariff. The Argentine Government has also announced an analysis of new measures that would change the current regulatory framework of the energy sector. On March 26, 2013, the Secretariat of Energy issued Resolution 95, which introduced a new scheme for the remuneration for the electricity generation sector and several modifications to the organization of the WEM, including the suspension of the administration of new contracts, or the renewal of existing contracts, in the term market of the WEM. We cannot assure you that these or other measures that may be adopted by the Argentine Government will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations or on the market value of our shares and ADSs or that the Argentine Government will not adopt emergency legislation similar to the Public Emergency Law, or other similar resolutions, in the future that may further increase our regulatory obligations, including increased taxes, unfavorable alterations to our tariff structures and other regulatory obligations, compliance with which would increase our costs and have a direct negative impact on our results of operations and cause the market value of our ADSs and Class B common shares to decline. 19 Table of Contents Electricity distributors were severely affected by the emergency measures adopted during the economic crisis, many of which remain in effect Distribution tariffs include a regulated margin that is intended to cover the costs of distribution and provide an adequate return over the distributor’s asset base. Under the Convertibility Regime, distribution tariffs were calculated in U.S. Dollars and distribution margins were adjusted periodically to reflect variations in U.S. inflation indexes. Pursuant to the Public Emergency Law, in January 2002 the Argentine government froze all distribution margins, revoked all margin adjustment provisions in distribution concessions and converted distribution tariffs into Pesos at a rate of Ps. 1.00 per U.S. $ 1.00. These measures, coupled with the effect of high inflation and the devaluation of the Peso, led to a decline in distribution revenues in real terms and an increase of distribution costs in real terms, which could no longer be recovered through adjustments to the distribution margin. This situation, in turn, led many public utility companies, including us and other important distribution companies, to suspend payments on their financial debt (which continued to be denominated in U.S. Dollars despite the pesification of revenues), effectively preventing these companies from obtaining further financing in the domestic or international credit markets and making additional investments. Although the Argentine Government has granted temporary and partial relief to some distribution companies, including a limited increase in distribution margins, a temporary cost adjustment mechanism which was not fully implemented and the ability to apply certain additional charges, distribution companies are currently involved in discussions with the regulatory and government authorities on additional, permanent measures needed to adapt the current tariff scheme to the post-crisis situation of this sector. We cannot assure you that these measures will be adopted or implemented or that, if adopted, they will be sufficient to address the structural problems created for us by the economic crisis and its aftermath. If we become unable to cover the costs of distribution or if we do not receive an adequate return on our asset base, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Electricity demand may be affected by tariff increases, which could lead distribution companies, such as us, to record lower revenues During the 2001 and 2002 economic crisis, electricity demand in Argentina decreased due to the decline in the overall level of economic activity and the deterioration in the ability of many consumers to pay their electricity bills. In the years following the 2001 and 2002 economic crisis electricity demand experienced significant growth, increasing as an estimated average of approximately 5.0% per annum from 2003 through 2012. This increase in electricity demand since 2003, reflects the relative low cost, in real terms, of electricity to consumers due to the freezing of distribution margins and the elimination of the inflation adjustment provisions in distribution concessions coupled with the devaluation of the Peso and inflation. The Executive Branch of the Argentine Government granted temporary increases in transmission and distribution margins, and transmission and distribution companies are currently negotiating further increases and adjustments to their tariff schemes with the Argentine Government. Although the increases in electricity transmission and distribution margins, which increased the cost of electricity to residential customers, have not had a significant negative effect on demand, we cannot make any assurances that these increases or any future increases in the relative cost of electricity will not have a material adverse effect on electricity demand or a decline in collections from customers. Further, in November 2011, the Argentine Government announced a cut in subsidies (which had no impact on our value added for distribution (“VAD”)) for electricity granted to certain customers that are presumed to be in a position to afford the cost without such subsidies. In this respect, we cannot assure you that these measures or any future measures (including increases on tariffs for residential users) will not lead electricity companies, like us, to record lower revenues and results of operations than currently anticipated, which may, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the market value of our ADSs. If we experience continued energy shortages in the face of growing demand for electricity, our ability to deliver electricity to our customers could be adversely affected, which could result in customer claims, material penalties and decreased results of operations In recent years, the condition of the Argentine electricity market has provided little incentive to generators to further invest in increasing their generation capacity, which would require material long-term financial commitments. As a result, Argentine electricity generators are currently operating at near full capacity and may not be able to guarantee the supply of electricity to distribution companies, such as us, which, in turn, could limit the ability of these companies, including us, to provide electricity to customers, and could lead to a decline in growth of such companies. Under Argentine law, distribution companies, such as us, are responsible to their customers for any disruption in the supply of electricity. To date, the Argentine authorities have not been called upon to decide under which conditions energy shortages may constitute force majeure. In the past, however, the Argentine authorities have taken a restrictive view of force majeure and have recognized the existence of force majeure only in limited circumstances, such as internal malfunctions at the customer’s facilities, extraordinary meteorological events (such as major storms) and third-party work in public thoroughfares. As a result, we could face customer claims and fines and penalties for service disruptions caused by energy shortages unless the relevant Argentine authorities determine that energy shortages constitute force majeure, which claims, fines and penalties could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and cause the market value of our ADSs and Class B common shares to decline. 20 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business Failure or delay to negotiate further improvements to our tariff structure, including increases in our distribution margin, and/or to have our tariff adjusted to reflect increases in our distribution costs in a timely manner, or at all, has affected our capacity to perform our commercial obligations and could also have a material adverse effect on our capacity to perform our financial obligations. As a result, there is substantial doubt with respect to the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern. We are currently engaged in RTI with the ENRE, as required by the agreement entered into with the Argentine government in February 2006 relating to the adjustment and renegotiation of the terms of our concession (the “Adjustment Agreement”). However, the timeline for completing this process and the favorability to us of the final resolution are both uncertain. The Adjustment Agreement currently contemplates a cost adjustment mechanism for the transition period during which the RTI is being conducted. This mechanism, known as the Cost Monitoring Mechanism (CMM), requires the ENRE to review our actual distribution costs every six months (in May and November of each year) and adjust our distribution margins to reflect variations of 5% or more in our distribution cost base. We may also request that the ENRE apply the CMM at any time that the variation in our distribution cost base is at least 10% or more. Any adjustments, however, are subject to the ENRE’s assessment of variations in our costs, and we cannot guarantee that the ENRE will approve adjustments that are sufficient to cover our actual incremental costs. In the past, even when the ENRE has approved adjustments to our tariffs, there has been a lag between when we actually experience increases in our distribution costs and when we receive increased revenues following the corresponding adjustments to our distribution margins pursuant to the CMM. In addition, we have estimated that the actual distribution costs have been significantly higher than the ones determined with the CMM adjustments that have been requested. Despite the adjustment we were granted under the CMM in October 2007 and July 2008, we cannot assure you that we will receive similar adjustments in the future. As of the date of this annual report we have requested ten additional increases under the CMM beginning in May 2008, which increases are still being reviewed by the ENRE (other than the request submitted in May 2008). Under the terms of the Adjustment Agreement, these ten increases should have been approved in May 2008, November 2008, May 2009, November 2009, May 2010, November 2010, May 2011, November 2011, May 2012 and November 2012. During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we recorded a significant decrease in net income and operating income, and our working capital and liquidity levels were negatively affected, primarily as a result of the delay in obtaining a tariff increase and in having our tariff adjusted to reflect increases in our distribution costs, coupled with a constant increase in operating costs to maintain adequate service levels all of which has affected our capacity to perform our commercial obligations. In this context and in light of the situation that affects the electricity sector, the ENRE issued Resolution No. 347/12 in November 2012, which establishes the application of fixed and variable charges that have allowed the Company to obtain additional revenue as from November 2012. However, such additional revenue is insufficient to make up our operating deficit due to the constant increase in operating costs and the estimated salary or third-party costs increases for the year 2013. If we are not able to recover all of the incremental costs contemplated by the increase requests pursuant to the CMM and all such future cost increases or there is a significant lag time between when we incur the incremental costs and when we receive increased revenues, and/or if we are not successful in achieving a satisfactory renegotiation of our tariff structure, we may be unable to comply with our financial obligations, we may suffer liquidity shortfalls and we may need to restructure our debt to ease our financial condition, any of which, individually or in the aggregate, would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and may cause the value of our ADSs to decline. As a result, there is substantial doubt with respect to the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern. 21 Table of Contents We have prepared our annual financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 included herein, assuming that we will continue as a going concern. Our independent auditors, PwC, issued a report dated April 30, 2013, on our Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, which contains an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, the delays in obtaining tariff increases and the cost adjustments recognition requested by the Company in accordance with the terms of the Adjustment Agreement, together with the continuous increase in operating expenses that are necessary to maintain the level of service, significantly affected the economic and financial position of the Company and have raised substantial doubt with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. Management's plans in response to these matters are also described in Note 1. However, our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 do not include any adjustments or reclassifications that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. See Item 18: “Financial Statements.” The goal of the RTI is to achieve a comprehensive revision of our tariff structure, including further increases in our distribution margins and periodic adjustments based on changes in our cost base, to provide us with an adequate return on our asset base. Although we believe the RTI will result in a new tariff structure, we cannot assure you that the RTI will conclude in a timely manner or at, all or that the new tariff structure will effectively cover all of our costs or provide us with an adequate return on our asset base. Moreover, the RTI could result in the adoption of an entirely new regulatory framework for our business, with additional terms and restrictions on our operations and the imposition of mandatory investments. We also cannot predict whether a new regulatory framework will be implemented and what terms or restrictions could be imposed on our operations. Our distribution tariffs may be subject to challenge by Argentine consumer and other groups In November 2006, two Argentine consumer associations, Asociación Civil por la Igualdad y la Justicia (ACIJ) and Consumidores Libres Cooperativa Limitada de Provisión de Servicios de Acción Comunitaria, brought an action against us and the Argentine government before a federal administrative court seeking to block the ratification of the Adjustment Agreement on the grounds that the approval mechanism was unconstitutional. In March 2007, the federal administrative court dismissed these claims and ruled in our favor on the grounds that the adoption of Executive Decree No. 1957/06, which ratified the Adjustment Agreement, rendered this action moot. The ACIJ appealed this decision in April 2007, and the appeal was decided in our favor. However, in April 2008, the ACIJ filed another complaint challenging the procedures utilized by the Argentine Congress in approving the Adjustment Agreement, to which we timely replied. In addition, in 2008, the defensor del pueblo (Public Ombudsman) filed a claim opposing the resolutions establishing the tariff schedule, effective as of October 1, 2008, and naming us as defendant. On January 27, 2009, the ENRE notified us of a preliminary injunction, as a result of the Ombudsman’s claim, pursuant to which we were ordered to refrain from cutting the energy supply to customers challenging the October 2008 tariff increase until a decision is reached with respect to the claim. This injunction has been appealed by us and the Argentine government, the resolution of which is still pending as of the date of this annual report. In addition, in December 2009, another Argentine consumer association, Unión de Usuarios y Consumidores, brought an action against us and the Argentine government seeking to annul certain retroactive tariff increases. In November 2010, the relevant court upheld the claim. We appealed the court’s order and requested that it be stayed pending a decision on the appeal. In December 2010, the court stayed its order pending a decision on the appeal. On June 1, 2011, the Administrative Court of Appeals (Cámara Nacional de Apelaciones en lo Contencioso Administrativo Federal – Sala V) overturned the judgment of the lower administrative court. The Unión de Usuarios y Consumidores filed an extraordinary federal appeal (“Recurso Extraordinario Federal”) against such decision, which was granted on March 11, 2011. The proceedings have been taken to the Supreme Court of Justice. We cannot make assurances regarding how these complaints will be resolved nor can we make assurances that other actions or requests for injunctive relief will not be brought by these or other groups seeking to reverse the adjustments we have obtained or to block any further adjustments to our distribution tariffs. If these legal challenges are successful and prevent us from implementing tariff adjustments granted by the Argentine government, we could face a decline in collections from our customers, and a decline in our results of operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the market value of our ADSs. 22 Table of Contents We have been, and may continue to be, subject to fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations We operate in a highly regulated environment and have been and in the future may continue to be subject to significant fines and penalties by regulatory authorities, including for reasons outside our control, such as service disruptions attributable to problems at generation facilities or in the transmission network that result in a lack of electricity supply. After 2001, the amount of fines and penalties imposed on our company has increased significantly, which we believe is mainly due to the economic and political environment in Argentina following the 2001 and 2002 economic crisis. Although the Argentine government has agreed to forgive a significant portion of our accrued fines and penalties pursuant to the Adjustment Agreement and to allow us to repay the remaining balance over time, this forgiveness and repayment plan is subject to a number of conditions, including compliance with quality of service standards, reporting obligations and required capital investments. As of December 31, 2012, December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, our consolidated accrued fines and penalties totaled Ps. 662.0 million, Ps. 542.2 million and Ps. 455.4 million, respectively (taking into account our adjustment to fines and penalties following the ratification of the Adjustment Agreement). If we fail to comply with any of these conditions, the Argentine government may seek to obtain payment of these fines and penalties by our company. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not incur material fines in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations and the market value of our ADSs. If we are unable to control our energy losses, our results of operations could be adversely affected Our concession does not allow us to pass through to our customers the cost of additional energy purchased to cover any energy losses that exceed the loss factor contemplated by our concession, which is, on average, 10%. As a result, if we experience energy losses in excess of those contemplated by our concession, we may record lower operating profits than we anticipate. Prior to the 2001 and 2002 economic crisis, we had been able to reduce the high level of energy losses experienced at the time of the privatization to the levels contemplated (and reimbursed) under our concession. However, during the last couple of years, our level of energy losses, particularly our non-technical losses, started to grow again, in part as a result of the increase in poverty levels and, with it, the number of delinquent accounts and fraud. Although we continue to make investments to reduce energy losses, these losses continue to exceed the 10% average loss factor in the concession, and based on the current economic turmoil, we do not expect these losses to decrease in the near term. Our energy losses amounted to 13.3% in 2012, 12.6% in 2011 and 12.5% in 2010. We cannot assure you that our energy losses will not increase again in future periods, which may lead us to have lower margins and could adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations and the market value of our ADSs. The Argentine government could foreclose on the pledge of our Class A common shares under certain circumstances, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition Pursuant to our concession and the provisions of the Adjustment Agreement, the Argentine government has the right to foreclose on the pledge of our Class A common shares and sell these shares to a third party buyer if: · the fines and penalties we incur in any given year exceed 20% of our gross energy sales, net of taxes (which corresponds to our energy sales); · we repeatedly and materially breach the terms of our concession and do not remedy these breaches upon the request of the ENRE; 23 Table of Contents · our controlling shareholder, EASA, creates any lien or encumbrance over our Class A common shares (other than the existing pledge in favor of the Argentine government); · we or EASA obstruct the sale of Class A common shares at the end of any management period under our concession; · EASA fails to obtain the ENRE’s approval in connection with the disposition of our Class A common shares; · our shareholders amend our articles of incorporation or voting rights in a way that modifies the voting rights of the Class A common shares without the ENRE’s approval; or · We, or any existing shareholders or former shareholders of EASA who have brought a claim against the Argentine government in the ICSID do not desist from such ICSID claims following completion of the RTI and the approval of a new tariff regime. In 2012, the fines and penalties imposed on Edenor by the ENRE amounted to Ps. 116.9 million, which represented 4.0% of our energy sales. See “