Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our Company involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to invest in our Company. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, results of operations and cash flows. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Risks Related to Our Business Decreases in the supply of used vehicles coming to auction have and may continue to impact auction sales volumes and may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The number of new and used vehicles that are leased by consumers affects the supply of vehicles coming to auction in future periods as the leases mature. As manufacturers and other lenders decrease the number of new vehicle lease originations and extend the terms of some of the existing leases, the number of off-lease vehicles available at auction for the industry declines. Based on our estimates, off-lease vehicles available at auction for the industry declined slightly in 2010 and declined by over 40% in 2011, reflecting declines in lease origination volume and new vehicle sales approximately three years earlier during the recent global economic downturn and credit crisis. If the supply of off-lease vehicles coming to auction declines further, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. Our expectation is that the decline in off-lease vehicles will continue to disproportionately impact Canada, where we have a significant auction market presence. Volumes of off-lease vehicles in subsequent periods will be affected by total new vehicle sales and the future leasing behavior of manufacturers and lenders and therefore we may not be able to accurately predict the volume of vehicles coming to auction. The supply of off-lease vehicles coming to auction is also affected by the market value of used vehicles compared to the residual value of those vehicles per the lease terms. In most cases, the lessee and the dealer have the ability to purchase the vehicle at the residual price at the end of the lease term. Generally, as market values of used vehicles rise, the number of vehicles purchased at residual value by the lessees and dealers increases, thus decreasing the number of off-lease vehicles available at auction. As recently as 2009, the auction industry sales volume was over 9 million units. However, auction sales volumes declined to approximately 7.7 million units in 2011 and an estimated 7.7 million units in 2012 (excluding approximately 0.3 million units sold by OPENLANE in 2011 and 2012). We believe that auction sales volumes will recover over the next several years, and we estimate volumes to reach nearly 9 million units by 2015, including OPENLANE volumes. We believe that an increase in the volume of off-lease and repossessed vehicles, among others, that are remarketed through whole car auctions are a significant contributor to this growth, and our performance could be adversely impacted if volumes do not increase and we are not able to reduce our costs permanently to compensate for the lower industry auction volumes. A prolonged economic downturn may negatively affect our business and results of operations. Future adverse economic conditions could increase our exposure to several risks, including: •Fluctuations in the supply of used vehicles. We are dependent on the supply of used vehicles coming to auction, and our financial performance depends, in part, on conditions in the automotive industry. During the recent global economic downturn and credit crisis, there was an erosion of retail demand for new and used vehicles that led many lenders to cut back on 22 Table of Contents originations of new loans and leases and led to significant manufacturing capacity reductions by automakers selling vehicles in the United States and Canada. Capacity reductions could depress the number of vehicles received at auction in the future and could lead to reduced program vehicles and rental fleet sales, negatively impacting auction volumes. In addition, weak growth in or declining new vehicle sales negatively impacts used vehicle trade-ins to dealers and auction volumes. These factors could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. •Decline in the demand for used vehicles. We may experience a decrease in demand for used vehicles from buyers due to factors including the lack of availability of consumer credit and declines in consumer spending and consumer confidence. Adverse credit conditions also affect the ability of dealers to secure financing to purchase used vehicles at auction, which further negatively affects buyer demand. In addition, a reduction in the number of franchised and independent used car dealers negatively affects our ability to collect receivables and may reduce dealer demand for used vehicles. •Decrease in the supply and demand of salvage vehicles. If the number of miles driven decreases, the number of salvage vehicles received at auction may also decrease. In addition, decreases in commodity prices, such as steel and platinum, may negatively affect vehicle values and demand at salvage auctions. In addition, if consumers eliminate their automotive collision coverage, this could result in fewer vehicles being declared a total loss. •Decrease in consumer spending. Consumer purchases of new and used vehicles may be adversely affected by economic conditions such as employment levels, wage and salary levels, trends in consumer confidence and spending, reductions in consumer net worth, interest rates, inflation, the availability of consumer credit and taxation policies. Consumer purchases in general may decline during recessions, periods of prolonged declines in the equity markets or housing markets and periods when disposable income and perceptions of consumer wealth are lower. Potential changes to U.S. federal tax policy in 2013 may negatively affect consumer spending. To the extent retail demand for new and used vehicles decreases, negatively impacting our auction volumes, our results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. •Volatility in the asset-backed securities market. Volatility and disruption in the asset-backed commercial paper market could lead to a narrowing of interest rate spreads at AFC in certain periods. In addition, any volatility and disruption has affected, and could affect, AFC's cost of financing related to its securitization facility. •Increased counterparty credit risk. Continued market deterioration could increase the risk of the failure of financial institutions party to our Credit Agreement and other counterparties with which we do business to honor their obligations to us. Our ability to replace any such obligations on the same or similar terms may be limited if challenging credit and general economic conditions persist. •Ability to service and refinance indebtedness. Uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively affect our ability to service our existing debt, access additional financing or to refinance our existing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. If economic weakness continues, it may affect our cash flow from operations and results of operations, which may affect our ability to service payment obligations on our debt or to comply with our debt covenants. 23 Table of Contents Our business is dependent on information and technology systems. Failure to effectively maintain or update these systems could result in us losing customers and materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Robust information systems are critical to our operating environment and competitive position, including with respect to our online auctions. We may not be successful in structuring our information system infrastructure or developing, acquiring or implementing information systems which are competitive and responsive to the needs of our customers and we might lack sufficient resources to continue to make the significant necessary investments in information systems to compete with our competitors. Certain information systems initiatives that management considers important to our long-term success will require capital investment, have significant risks associated with their execution, and could take several years to implement. We may not be able to develop/implement these initiatives in a cost-effective, timely manner or at all. Our information and technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from computer viruses, network failures, computer and telecommunications failures, infiltration by unauthorized persons and security breaches, usage errors by our employees, power outages and catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes. If these systems were compromised, not operable for extended periods of time or ceased to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them and our ability to provide many of our electronic and online solutions to our customers may be impaired. If that were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Aspects of our operations and business are subject to privacy regulation in the United States and elsewhere. Many U.S. states have enacted data breach regulations and laws requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach. Increased regulation and enforcement activity throughout the world in the areas of data privacy and data security/breach may materially increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our failure to comply with the privacy and data security/breach laws to which we are subject could also result in fines, sanctions and damage to our reputation and trade names. Used vehicle prices have a significant effect on fee revenue per unit at IAA and loan losses at AFC and may impact the supply of used vehicles at ADESA. The volume of new vehicle production, accuracy of lease residual estimates, interest rates, customer demand and changes in regulations, among other things, all potentially affect the pricing of used vehicles. Used vehicle prices may affect the volume of vehicles entered for sale at our used vehicle auctions and the demand for those used vehicles, the fee revenue per unit at our salvage auctions, loan losses for our dealer financing business and our ability to retain customers. Throughout 2011 and 2012, used vehicle prices remained high, which led many used vehicle dealers to retail more of their trade-in vehicles on their own rather than selling them at auction. The high used vehicle prices in 2011 and 2012 also contributed to strong proceeds in the salvage auction industry. In contrast, a sustained reduction in used vehicle pricing could result in lower proceeds from the sale of salvage vehicles and a related reduction in revenue per vehicle, a potential loss of consignors, an increase in loan losses at AFC and decreased profitability. Significant competition exists in our industry and we may not be able to retain customers. We face significant competition for the supply of used and salvage vehicles and for the buyers of those vehicles and for the floorplan financing of these vehicles. Current or potential competition comes from four primary sources: (i) direct competitors (Manheim, Copart and NextGear Capital), (ii) potential entrants, (iii) potential new vehicle remarketing venues and dealer financing services and (iv) existing alternative vehicle remarketing venues. In addition, due to the increased viability of the 24 Table of Contents internet as a marketing and distribution channel, new competition has evolved from internet-based companies and our own customers who have historically remarketed vehicles through various channels, including our auctions. In the whole car and salvage auctions and the dealer financing businesses, we and our competitors are working to develop new services and technologies, or improvements and modifications to existing services and technologies. Some of these competitors may have greater financial and marketing resources than we do, and may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging services and technologies, evolving industry trends and changes in customer requirements, and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. ADESA currently competes with online wholesale and retail vehicle selling platforms, including OVE.com (affiliated with Manheim), SmartAuction, eBay Motors and others. With the exception of OVE.com, these online selling platforms generally do not have any meaningful physical presence; however, they may decrease the quantity of vehicles sold through our online and physical auctions. If the number of vehicles sold at our auctions decreases due to these competitors or other remarketing methods, our revenue and profitability may be negatively impacted. In our salvage auction business, potential competitors include used vehicle auctions, providers of claims software to insurance companies and certain salvage buyer groups and automobile insurance companies, some of which currently supply salvage vehicles to us. Insurance companies may in the future decide to dispose of their salvage vehicles directly to end users. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us would not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. ADESA and IAA's agreements with its largest institutional suppliers of used and salvage vehicles are generally subject to cancellation by either party upon 30 to 90 days' notice. In addition, it is common that institutional suppliers regularly review their relationships with whole car and salvage auctions through written requests for proposals. There can be no assurance that our existing agreements will not be cancelled or that we will be able to enter into future agreements with these or other suppliers on similar terms, or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us would not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are not able to compete successfully, our ability to grow and sustain profitability could be impaired. Fluctuations in the supply of and demand for salvage vehicles impact auction sales volumes, which may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We are dependent upon receiving a sufficient number of total loss vehicles as well as recovered theft vehicles to sustain profit margins in our salvage auction business. Factors that can adversely affect the number of vehicles received include, but are not limited to, a decrease in the number of vehicles in operation or miles driven, mild weather conditions that cause fewer traffic accidents, reduction of policy writing by insurance providers that would affect the number of claims over a period of time, a decrease in the percentage of claims resulting in a total loss, delays or changes in state title processing, and changes in direct repair procedures that would reduce the number of newer, less damaged total loss vehicles, which tend to have higher salvage values. In addition, our salvage auction business depends on a limited number of key insurance companies to supply the salvage vehicles we sell at auction. Our agreements with these insurance company suppliers are generally subject to cancellation by either party upon 30 to 90 days' notice. There can be no assurance that our existing agreements will not be cancelled or that we will be able to enter into future agreements with these suppliers. Future decreases in the quality and quantity of vehicle inventory, and in particular the availability of newer and 25 Table of Contents less damaged vehicles, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, in 2010 and 2011 there was a slight decline in the percentage of claims resulting in total losses, as well as a declining trend in theft occurrences which reduces the number of stolen vehicles recovered by insurance companies for which a claim settlement has been made. If the supply of salvage vehicles coming to auction declines significantly, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. An increase in the number of used and salvage vehicles purchased on virtual auction platforms could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We acquired OPENLANE in recognition of the increasing use of the internet as a means to purchase wholesale vehicles. In connection with online auctions, ADESA and IAA offer physical auctions, which allow buyers to physically inspect and compare vehicles. If sellers and buyers increase the number of vehicles transacted on virtual auction platforms, our revenue per vehicle will likely decline. In addition, our cost structure includes a significant fixed cost component, including occupancy costs, that cannot be readily reduced if revenue per vehicle declines. If a shift in the percentage of used and salvage vehicles sold online as compared with used and salvage vehicles sold at physical auctions occurs, and we are unable to generate new sources of revenue, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, it could adversely affect our growth prospects. Acquisitions have been a part of our historical growth and have enabled us to further broaden and diversify our service offerings. Our strategy generally involves the acquisition and integration of additional physical auction sites, technologies and personnel. Acquisition of businesses requires substantial time and attention of management personnel and may also require additional equity or debt financings. Further, integration of newly established or acquired businesses is often disruptive. Since we have acquired or in the future may acquire one or more businesses, there can be no assurance that we will identify appropriate targets, will acquire such businesses on favorable terms, or will be able to successfully integrate such organizations into our business. Failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we expect to compete against other auction groups or new industry consolidators for suitable acquisitions. If we are able to consummate acquisitions, such acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, and we could overpay for such acquisitions. In pursuing a strategy of acquiring other businesses, we face other risks including, but not limited to: •incurring significantly higher capital expenditures and operating expenses; •entering new markets with which we are unfamiliar; •incurring potential undiscovered liabilities at acquired businesses; •failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies; •impairing relationships with employees and customers as a result of management changes; and •increasing expenses for accounting and computer systems, as well as integration difficulties. We may not successfully implement our business strategies or maintain gross profit margins. We are pursuing strategic initiatives that management considers critical to our long-term success, including but not limited to growing market share and volume, increasing revenue per vehicle and improving customer experiences through internet initiatives, using excess cash flow to reduce debt, 26 Table of Contents leveraging AFC's products and services at ADESA and IAA and continuing to improve operating efficiency. There are significant risks involved with the execution of these initiatives, including significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether we will succeed in implementing these strategic initiatives. For example, if we are unsuccessful in continuing to generate significant cash flows from operations (we generated $290.2 million and $305.8 million of cash flow from operations for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively), we may be unable to reduce our outstanding indebtedness, which could negatively affect our financial position and results of operations and our ability to execute our other strategies. It could take several years to realize any direct financial benefits from these initiatives if any direct financial benefits from these initiatives are achieved at all. Additionally, our business strategy may change from time to time, which could delay our ability to implement initiatives that we believe are important to our business. Changes in interest rates or market conditions could adversely impact the profitability and business of AFC. Rising interest rates may have the effect of depressing the sales of used vehicles because many consumers finance their vehicle purchases. In addition, AFC securitizes a majority of its finance receivables on a revolving basis. Volatility and/or market disruption in the asset-backed securities market in the United States or Canada can impact AFC's cost of financing related to, or its ability to arrange financing on acceptable terms through, its securitization facility, which could negatively affect AFC's business and our financial condition and operations. In addition, AFC typically assesses its U.S. dealer customers with an interest rate comprised of a minimum prime rate of 5% plus an interest spread. The U.S. prime rate was 3.25% at December 31, 2012. Any increase above 3.25% up to 5% will likely compress AFC's margins as the variable cost of securitizing receivables will rise without a corresponding increase in the financing rate AFC charges to its U.S. dealer customers. Increases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies may negatively impact foreign buyer participation at our auctions. We have a significant number of non-U.S. based buyers who participate in our auctions. Increases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to these buyers' local currencies may reduce the prices they are willing to pay at auction, which may negatively affect our revenues. Weather-related and other events beyond our control may adversely impact operations. Extreme weather or other events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, forest fires, floods, terrorist attacks or war, may adversely affect the overall economic environment, the markets in which we compete, our operations and profitability. These events may impact our physical auction facilities, causing a material increase in costs, or delays or cancellation of auction sales, which could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. In some instances, for example with the recent severe storm in October 2012, known as "Superstorm Sandy," these events may result in a sharp influx in the available supply of salvage vehicles and there can be no assurance that our salvage auction business will have sufficient resources to handle such extreme increases in supply. Our failure to meet our customers' demands in such situations could negatively affect our relationships with such customers and result in a loss of future business, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, salvage revenues generated as a result of the total loss of vehicles associated with such a catastrophe are typically recognized subsequent to the incurrence of incremental costs and such revenues may not be sufficient to offset the costs incurred. Mild weather conditions tend to result in a decrease in the available supply of salvage vehicles because traffic accidents decrease and fewer vehicles are damaged. Accordingly, mild weather can have 27 Table of Contents an adverse effect on our salvage vehicle inventories, which would be expected to have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating results and related growth rates. High fuel prices could lead to a reduction in miles driven and may have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results, as well as our earnings growth rates. High fuel prices could lead to a reduction in the miles driven per vehicle, which may reduce accident rates. High fuel prices may also disproportionately affect the demand for sports cars, luxury vehicles, sport utility and full-sized vehicles which are generally not as fuel-efficient as smaller vehicles. Retail sales and accident rates are factors that affect the number of used and salvage vehicles sold at auction, wholesale prices of those vehicles and the conversion rates at used vehicle auctions. Additionally, high fuel costs increase the cost of transportation and towing of vehicles and we may not be able to pass on such higher costs to our customers. A portion of our net income is derived from our international operations, primarily Canada, which exposes us to foreign exchange risks that may impact our financial statements. Fluctuations between U.S. and foreign currency values may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position, particularly fluctuations with Canadian currency values. In addition, there may be tax inefficiencies in repatriating cash from Canada. For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 16% of our revenues were attributable to our Canadian operations. A decrease in the value of the Canadian currency relative to the U.S. dollar would reduce our profits from Canadian operations and the value of the net assets of our Canadian operations when reported in U.S. dollars in our financial statements. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. In addition, fluctuations in exchange rates may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. For purposes of accounting, the assets and liabilities of our Canadian operations are translated using period-end exchange rates; such translation gains and losses are reported in "Accumulated other comprehensive income/loss" as a component of stockholders' equity. The revenues and expenses of our Canadian operations are translated using average exchange rates during each period. Environmental, health and safety risks could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the emission or discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the generation, treatment, storage and release of hazardous materials and wastes and the investigation and remediation of contamination. Our failure to comply with current or future environmental, health or safety laws or to obtain and comply with permits required under such laws, could subject us to significant liability or require costly investigative, remedial or corrective actions. In the used vehicle remarketing industry, large numbers of vehicles, including wrecked vehicles at salvage auctions, are stored and/or refurbished at auction facilities and during that time minor releases of fuel, motor oil and other materials may occur. We have investigated or remediated, or are currently investigating or remediating, contamination resulting from various sources, including gasoline, fuel additives (such as methyl tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE), motor oil, petroleum products and other hazardous materials released from aboveground or underground storage tanks or in connection with current or former operations conducted at our facilities. We have incurred and may in the future incur expenditures relating to releases of hazardous materials, investigative, remedial or corrective actions, claims by third parties and other environmental issues, and such expenditures, individually or in the aggregate, could be significant. 28 Table of Contents Federal and state environmental authorities are currently investigating IAA's role in contributing to contamination at the Lower Duwamish Waterway Superfund Site in Seattle, Washington. IAA's potential liability at this site cannot be estimated at this time. See Item 3, "Legal Proceedings" for a further discussion of this matter. We have a substantial amount of debt, which could impair our financial condition and adversely affect our ability to react to changes in our business. As of December 31, 2012, our total debt was approximately $1.8 billion, exclusive of liabilities related to our securitization facilities, and we had $250.0 million of borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit facilities. In addition, we had related outstanding letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $23.6 million at December 31, 2012, which reduce the amount available for borrowings under the credit facilities. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences including: •limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy, acquisitions and other purposes; •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on debt, which would reduce the funds available for other purposes, including funding future expansion; •making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions, in government regulation and in our business by limiting our flexibility in planning for, and making it more difficult to react quickly to, changing conditions; and •exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because the majority of our indebtedness is at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expenses in the event of increases in interest rates. In addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations to service our debt and meet other cash needs, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, suspend or eliminate dividends, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to refinance our debt or sell additional debt or equity securities or our assets on favorable terms, if at all, particularly because of our high levels of debt and the restrictions imposed by the agreement governing our Credit Facility and the indenture governing our floating senior notes on our ability to incur additional debt and use the proceeds from asset sales. If we must sell certain of our assets, it may negatively affect our ability to generate revenue. The inability to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we would be in default and, as a result: •our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; •the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and •we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 29 Table of Contents Restrictive covenants in agreements governing our debt may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The indenture governing our floating senior notes and the agreement governing our Credit Facility contain, and future debt instruments may contain, various provisions that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries, including ADESA and IAA, to, among other things: •incur additional debt; •provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; •issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; •pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; •prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; •make loans, investments and capital expenditures; •incur liens; •pay dividends or make other payments by our restricted subsidiaries; •enter into certain transactions with affiliates; •sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; and •consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. We assume the settlement risk for all vehicles sold through our auctions. We do not have recourse against sellers for any buyer's failure to satisfy its payment obligations. Since revenue for most vehicles does not include the gross sales proceeds, failure to collect the receivables in full may result in a net loss up to the gross sales proceeds on a per vehicle basis in addition to any expenses incurred to collect the receivables and to provide the services associated with the vehicle. If we are unable to collect payments on a large number of vehicles, the resulting payment obligations to the seller and decreased fee revenues may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in laws affecting the importation of salvage vehicles may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our internet-based auction services have allowed us to offer our products and services to international markets and has increased our international buyer base. As a result, foreign importers of salvage vehicles now represent a significant part of our total buyer base. Changes in laws and regulations that restrict the importation of salvage vehicles into foreign countries may reduce the demand for salvage vehicles and impact our ability to maintain or increase our international buyer base. For example, in March 2008, a decree issued by the president of Mexico became effective that placed restrictions on the types of vehicles that can be imported into Mexico from the United States. The adoption of similar laws or regulations in other jurisdictions that have the effect of reducing or curtailing our activities abroad could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition by reducing the demand for our products and services. We are partially self-insured for certain losses. We self-insure a portion of employee medical benefits under the terms of our employee health insurance program, as well as a portion of our automobile, general liability and workers' compensation claims. We record an accrual for the claims expense related to our employee medical benefits, 30 Table of Contents automobile, general liability and workers' compensation claims based upon the expected amount of all such claims. If actual trends, including the severity of claims and medical cost inflation above expectations were to occur, our self-insured costs would increase, which could have an adverse impact on the operating results in that period. If we fail to attract and retain key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy and our financial results could be negatively affected. Our success depends in large part on the performance of our executive management team and other key employees, including key field personnel. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete with us, we may not be able to effectively implement our business strategies, our business could suffer and the value of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. Our auction business is directly impacted by the business relationships our employees have established with customers and suppliers and, as a result, if we lose key personnel, we may have difficulty in retaining and attracting customers, developing new services, negotiating favorable agreements with customers and providing acceptable levels of customer service. Leadership changes will occur from time to time and we cannot predict whether significant resignations will occur or whether we will be able to recruit additional qualified personnel. We do not have nor do we currently expect to obtain key person insurance on any of our executive officers. We are subject to extensive governmental regulations, including vehicle brokerage and auction laws and currency reporting obligations. Our business is subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions. Our operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under various U.S., Canadian and Mexican federal, state, provincial and local authorities, agencies, statutes and ordinances, which, among other things, require us to obtain and maintain certain licenses, permits and qualifications, provide certain disclosures and notices and limit interest rates, fees and other charges. The regulations and laws that impact our company include, without limitation, the following: •The acquisition and sale of used, leased, totaled and recovered theft vehicles are regulated by state or other local motor vehicle departments in each of the locations in which we operate. •Some of the transport vehicles used at our auctions are regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation or similar regulatory agencies in Canada and Mexico. •In many states and provinces, regulations require that a salvage vehicle be forever "branded" with a salvage notice in order to notify prospective purchasers of the vehicle's previous salvage status. •Some state, provincial and local regulations limit who can purchase salvage vehicles, as well as determine whether a salvage vehicle can be sold as rebuildable or must be sold for parts or scrap only. •AFC is subject to laws in certain states and in Canada which regulate commercial lending activities and interest rates and, in certain jurisdictions, require AFC or one of its subsidiaries to be licensed. •We are subject to various local zoning requirements with regard to the location of our auction and storage facilities, which requirements vary from location to location. Changes in law or governmental regulations or interpretations of existing law or regulations could result in increased costs, reduced vehicle prices and decreased profitability for us. In addition, failure to comply with present or future laws and regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or in their interpretation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 31 Table of Contents We are also subject from time to time to a variety of legal actions relating to our current and past business operations, including litigation relating to employment-related issues, the environment and insurance claims. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves in legal and administrative actions or in asserting our rights under various laws. In addition we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or in asserting our rights in such actions. The costs and other effects of pending litigation and administrative actions against us cannot be determined with certainty. Although we currently believe that no such proceedings will have a material adverse effect, there can be no assurance that the outcome of such proceedings will be as expected. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent, trade secret, and domain name protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. In the United States and internationally, we have filed various applications for protection of certain aspects of our intellectual property, and we currently hold issued patents in the United States. However, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our proprietary rights, third parties may challenge proprietary rights held by us, and pending and future trademark and patent applications may not be approved. In addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we operate or intend to operate our business. In any or all of these cases, we may be required to expend significant time and expense in order to prevent infringement or to enforce our rights. Although we have taken measures to protect our proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that others will not offer products or concepts that are substantially similar to ours and compete with our business. If the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent unauthorized use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished and competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. We may be subject to patent or other intellectual property infringement claims, which could have an impact on our business or operating results due to a disruption in our business operations, the incurrence of significant costs and other factors. From time to time, we may receive notices from others claiming that we infringed or otherwise violated their patent or intellectual property rights, and the number of these claims could increase in the future. Claims of intellectual property infringement or other intellectual property violations could require us to enter into licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question, which could require us to change business practices and limit our ability to compete effectively. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and may divert management's attention and resources away from our businesses. If we are required to take any of these actions, it could have an adverse impact on our business and operating results. We are dependent on the continued and uninterrupted service from our workforce. Currently, none of our employees participate in collective bargaining agreements. If we negotiate a first-time collective bargaining agreement, we could be subject to a substantial increase in labor and benefits expenses that we may be unable to pass through to customers for some period of time, if at all. The U.S. Congress could pass labor legislation, such as the proposed Employee Free Choice Act, or the "EFCA," (also called "card-check legislation") that could adversely affect our operations. The EFCA would make it significantly easier for union organizing drives to be successful—for example, by eliminating employees' absolute right to a secret ballot vote in union elections—and could give 32 Table of Contents third-party arbitrators the ability to impose terms of collective bargaining agreements upon us and a labor union if we and such union are unable to agree to the terms of a collective bargaining agreement. Such an arbitrated initial contract could include pay, benefit and work rules that could adversely affect our profitability and operational flexibility. We have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net income. Goodwill represents the amount by which the cost of an acquisition accounted for using the purchase method exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired. Current accounting standards require that goodwill no longer be amortized but instead be periodically evaluated for impairment based on the fair value of the reporting unit. A significant percentage of our total assets represents goodwill primarily associated with the 2007 Transactions. Declines in our profitability or the value of comparable companies may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of goodwill and a reduction in net income. New accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing standards could require us to make adjustments to accounting policies that could adversely affect the financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, and other accounting organizations or governmental entities from time to time issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting and auditing standards that require changes to our accounting policies and procedures and could cause us to incur additional costs. To date, we do not believe any new pronouncements or interpretations have had a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, but future pronouncements or interpretations could require the change of policies or procedures. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders. You should consider an investment in our common stock to be risky, and you should invest in our common stock only if you can withstand a significant loss and wide fluctuations in the market value of your investment. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including the following: •our announcements or our competitors' announcements regarding new products or services, enhancements, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; •changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; •results of operations that are below our announced guidance or below securities analysts' or consensus estimates or expectations; •fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; •changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities, sales of large blocks of common stock by our stockholders or our incurrence of additional debt; •investors' general perception of us and our industry; •changes in general economic and market conditions in North America; •changes in industry conditions; and 33 Table of Contents •changes in regulatory and other dynamics. In addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if successfully defended, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. Future offerings of debt or equity securities, which would rank senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If, in the future, we decide to issue debt or equity securities that rank senior to our common stock, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. We and, indirectly, our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in us. The market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. At February 12, 2013, there were 136,743,228 shares of our common stock outstanding. Of our issued and outstanding shares, all of the common stock is freely transferable, except for any shares held by our "affiliates," as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the "Securities Act." Pursuant to a registration rights agreement entered into in connection with the 2007 Transactions, KAR LLC caused us to file a registration statement under the Securities Act, covering resales of all shares of our common stock held by KAR LLC. Approximately 67% of our outstanding common stock is held indirectly through their investment in KAR LLC by affiliates of the Equity Sponsors, other equity co-investors and members of our management. These shares also may be sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, depending on the holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. As restrictions on resale end or if KAR LLC exercises its registration rights, the market price of our stock could decline if KAR LLC sells the restricted shares or is perceived by the market as intending to sell them. See Item 13, "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence." Pursuant to a registration statement under the Securities Act, we have registered shares of common stock reserved for issuance in respect of stock options and other incentive awards granted to our officers and certain of our employees. If any of these holders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may be considered to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay or prevent a tender offer or other corporate transaction that a stockholder might consider to be in its best interest, including those transactions that might result in a premium over the market price for our shares. 34 Table of Contents These provisions include: •limiting the right of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders to holders of at least 35% of our outstanding common stock; •rules regarding how our stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; •permitting our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; •granting to the board of directors, and not the stockholders, the sole power to set the number of directors; and •authorizing vacancies on our board of directors to be filled only by a vote of the majority of the directors then in office and specifically denying our stockholders the right to fill vacancies in the board. From and after the time that KAR LLC no longer has beneficial ownership of 35% or more of our outstanding common stock, these provisions will also include: •authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock entitled to vote for the election of directors; and •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent. These provisions apply even if an offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. The Equity Sponsors (through KAR LLC) have significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of shareholders, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Currently, we are indirectly controlled by affiliates of the Equity Sponsors. Affiliates of the Equity Sponsors, other equity co-investors and management indirectly own through their investment in KAR LLC approximately 67% of our common stock. As a result, affiliates of the Equity Sponsors have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and the ability to prevent any transaction that requires shareholder approval regardless of whether others believe that the transaction is in our best interests. So long as the Equity Sponsors continue to indirectly hold a majority of our outstanding common stock, they will have the ability to control the vote in any election of directors. We have entered into a director designation agreement that provides for the rights of KAR LLC directly, and the Equity Sponsors indirectly, to nominate designees to our board of directors. See Item 13, "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence." The Equity Sponsors are also in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. The Equity Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that are complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as the Equity Sponsors, or other funds controlled by or associated with the Equity Sponsors, continue to indirectly own a significant amount of our outstanding common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the Equity Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. 35 Table of Contents Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the Equity Sponsors and, in some circumstances, any of our directors and officers who is also a director, officer, manager, member or employee of any of our Equity Sponsors, have no obligation to offer us corporate opportunities. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Equity Sponsors and their respective subsidiaries and affiliates have the right to engage or invest in, and do not have a duty to abstain from engaging or investing in, the same or similar businesses as us, do business with any of our clients, customers or vendors or employ or otherwise engage any of our officers, directors or employees. If any Equity Sponsor or any of its officers, directors, managers, members, partners or employees acquires knowledge of a potential transaction that could be a corporate opportunity for us, such person has no duty to offer that opportunity to us, our stockholders or our affiliates, even if it is one that we might reasonably have pursued. Neither the Equity Sponsors nor their officers, directors, managers, members, partners or employees will generally be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of any duty by reason of engaging in such activities. In addition, any of our directors and officers who is also a director, officer, manager, member, partner or employee of any of our Equity Sponsors and is offered or acquires knowledge of a corporate opportunity, other than solely in such person's capacity as our director or officer, will not have any liability to us if any of the Equity Sponsors pursues or acquires such corporate opportunity. You may not receive any future dividends on our common stock. On November 30, 2012, we announced that our board of directors approved the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. We are not required to declare cash dividends on our common stock. Future dividend decisions will be based on and affected by a variety of factors, including our financial condition and results of operations, contractual restrictions, including restrictive covenants contained in our Credit Agreement, AFC's securitization facilities and the indenture governing our outstanding debt securities, capital requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. Therefore, no assurance can be given as to whether any future dividends may be declared by our board of directors or the amount thereof. We are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. KAR LLC controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a "controlled company" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including: •the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; •the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; •the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and •the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. 36 Table of Contents We are utilizing certain of these exemptions. As a result, our compensation committee does not consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 