RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Argentina Overview We are a stock corporation (sociedad anónima) incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Argentina and substantially all of our revenues are earned in Argentina and substantially all of our operations, facilities, and customers are located in Argentina. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations depend to a significant extent on macroeconomic, regulatory, political and financial conditions prevailing in Argentina, including growth, inflation rates, currency exchange rates, interest rates, and other local, regional and international events and conditions that may affect Argentina in any manner. For example, slower economic growth or economic recession could lead to a decreased demand for electricity in our concession area or to a decline in the purchasing power of our customers, which, in turn, could lead to a decrease in collection rates from our customers or increased energy losses due to illegal use of our service. Actions of the Argentine government concerning the economy, including decisions with respect to inflation, interest rates, price controls (including tariffs and other compensation of public services), foreign exchange controls and taxes, have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on private sector entities, including us. For example, during the Argentine economic crisis of 2001, the Argentine government froze electricity distribution margins and caused the pesification of our tariffs, which had a materially adverse effect on our business and financial condition and led us to suspend payments on our financial debt at the time. We cannot assure you that the current or next Argentine government will not adopt other policies that could adversely affect the Argentine economy or our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that future economic, regulatory, social and political developments in Argentina will not impair our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause the market value of our ADSs and Class B common shares to decline. 10 Table of Contents A global or regional financial crisis and unfavorable credit and market conditions may negatively affect our liquidity, customers, business, and results of operations The effects of a global or regional credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, an impact that is likely to be more severe on an emerging market economy, such as Argentina. The effect of such an economic crisis on our customers and on us cannot be predicted. Weak economic conditions could lead to reduced demand or lower prices for energy, which could have a negative effect on our revenues. Economic factors such as unemployment, inflation and the availability of credit could also have a material adverse effect on demand for energy and, therefore, on our financial condition and operating results. The financial and economic situation in Argentina or other countries in Latin American, such as Brazil, may also have a negative impact on third parties with whom we do, or may do, business. In addition, our ability to access credit or capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would need financing, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions (see “Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth, and consequently, may affect our business, results of operations and prospects for growth”). For these reasons, any of the foregoing factors or a combination of them could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and cause the market value of our ADSs and Class B common shares to decline. The Argentine economy remains vulnerable and any significant decline could adversely affect our financial condition Sustainable economic growth in Argentina is dependent on a variety of factors, including the international demand for Argentine exports, the stability and competitiveness of the Argentine Peso against foreign currencies, the confidence among consumers and foreign and domestic investors and a stable rate of inflation. The Argentine economy remains vulnerable, as reflected by the following economic conditions: · GDP growth has declined and employment is beginning to show some signals of weakness; · inflation remains high and threatens to continue at those levels; · investment as a percentage of GDP remains too low to sustain the growth rate of recent years; · the availability of long-term credit is scarce, while international financing remains limited; · the regulatory environment continues to be uncertain; · in the climate created by the above-mentioned conditions, demand for foreign currency has grown, generating a capital flight effect to which the Argentine government has responded with regulations and currency exchange and transfer restrictions, and it is widely reported that in other countries where the Peso is traded, the Peso/U.S. Dollar exchange rate differs substantially from the official exchange rate in Argentina; and · previous GDP performance has depended to some extent on high commodity prices which, despite having a favorable long-term trend, are volatile in the short-term and beyond the control of the Argentine government. As in the recent past, Argentina’s economy may be adversely affected if political and social pressures inhibit the implementation by the Argentine government of policies designed to control inflation, generate growth and enhance consumer and investor confidence, or if policies implemented by the Argentine government that are designed to achieve these goals are not successful. These events could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, or cause the market value of our ADSs and our Class B common shares to decline. We cannot assure you that a decline in economic growth, increased economic instability or the expansion of economic policies and measures taken by the Argentine government to control inflation or address other macroeconomic developments that affect private sector entities such as us, all developments over which we have no control, would not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or would not have a negative impact on the market value of our ADSs and our Class B common shares. 11 Table of Contents The impact of inflation in Argentina on our costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations Inflation has, in the past, materially undermined the Argentine economy and the Argentine government’s ability to create conditions that permit growth. In recent years, Argentina has confronted inflationary pressures, evidenced by significantly higher fuel, energy and food prices, among other factors. According to data published by the Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censos (National Statistics and Census Institute or “INDEC”), the rate of inflation reached 10.0% in 2012, 10.6% in 2013 and 21.4% in 2014. The Argentine government has implemented programs to control inflation and monitor prices for essential goods and services, including freezing the prices of supermarket products, and price support arrangements agreed between the Argentine government and private sector companies in several industries and markets. A high inflation environment would undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the Argentine Peso devaluation, negatively impact the level of economic activity and employment and undermine confidence in Argentina’s banking system, which could further limit the availability of domestic and international credit to businesses. In turn, a portion of the Argentine debt is adjusted by the Coeficiente de Estabilización de Referencia (Stabilization Coefficient, or “CER”), a currency index, that is strongly related to inflation. Therefore, any significant increase in inflation would cause an increase in the Argentine external debt and consequently in Argentina’s financial obligations, which could exacerbate the stress on the Argentine economy. A continuing high inflation environment could undermine our results of operations as a result of a delay in our ability to, or our inability to, adjust our tariffs accordingly; it could adversely affect our ability to finance the working capital needs of our businesses on favorable terms; and it could adversely affect our results of operations and cause the market value of our ADSs and Class B common shares to decline. The credibility of several Argentine economic indices has been called into question, which may lead to a lack of confidence in the Argentine economy and may in turn limit our ability to access the credit and capital markets In January 2007, INDEC modified its methodology used to calculate the consumer price index (the “CPI”), which is calculated as the monthly average of a weighted basket of consumer goods and services that reflects the pattern of consumption of Argentine households. Since then, the credibility of the CPI, as well as other indexes published by the INDEC has been affected. As a result of the uncertainty relating to the accuracy of INDEC indices, the inflation rate of Argentina and the other rates calculated by INDEC could be higher than as indicated in official reports. On November 23, 2010, the Argentine government began consulting with the IMF for technical assistance in order to prepare a new national consumer price index with the aim of modernizing the current statistical system. In its meeting held on February 1, 2013, the Executive Board of the IMF found that Argentina’s progress in implementing remedial measures since September 2012 had not been sufficient. As a result, the IMF issued a declaration of censure against Argentina in connection with the breach of its related obligations to the IMF under the Articles of Agreement and called on Argentina to adopt remedial measures to address the inaccuracy of inflation and GDP data without further delay. In order to address the quality of official data, a new price index was put in place on February 13, 2014. The new price index represents the first national indicator to measure changes in prices of final consumption by households. While the previous price index only measured inflation in the urban sprawl of the City of Buenos Aires, the new price index is calculated by measuring prices on goods across the entire urban population of the 24 provinces of Argentina. Pursuant to these calculations, the new consumer price index rose to 21.4% in 2014. Even though the new methodology brought inflation statistics closer to those estimated by private sources, there is still a material difference between official inflation data and private estimates. Any further required correction or restatement of the INDEC indices could result in a decrease in confidence in Argentina’s economy, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our ability to access international capital markets to finance our operations and growth, and which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and cause the market value of our ADSs and Class B common shares to decline. 12 Table of Contents Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth and, consequently, may affect our business, results of operations and prospects for growth In 2005, Argentina restructured part of its sovereign debt that had been in default since the end of 2001. The Argentine government announced that as a result of this restructuring, it had approximately U.S.$129.2 billion in total gross public debt as of December 31, 2005. Holdout creditors that declined to participate in the exchanges commenced numerous lawsuits against Argentina in several countries, including the United States, Italy, Germany, and Japan. Since late 2012, rulings favorable to those bondholders have deepened doubts about Argentina’s ability to service its restructured debt under the terms of foreign judgments, and exacerbated investors’ uncertainties. In 2013, the Argentine Congress approved a law that enables the government to take the necessary measures to complete the debt restructuring process, on terms that cannot exceed those of the previous debt exchanges. On August 23, 2013, the United States Second Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in favor of the bondholders. On November 18, 2013, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals denied Argentina’s petition for a rehearing. On June 16, 2014, the United States Supreme Court denied Argentina’s certiorari petition and affirmed the Court of Appeals decision. Consequently, on June 18, 2014, the Court of Appeals lifted the stay of enforcement on the award granted by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, requiring Argentina to pay all amounts owed to holdout bondholders on the next payment to holders of restructured debt. Argentina has not yet honored the award or otherwise reached an agreement with its holdout bondholders. In addition, as a result of the orders issued by the District Court affecting third parties involved in the payment process, holders of certain restructured debt have not received payments on their bonds, technically rendering the country in default on its interest payments under such restructured indebtedness. We cannot assure that such indebtedness, to the extent of a continued default, shall not be accelerated by its holders. The ongoing dispute with the holdout bondholders may prevent Argentina from accessing the capital markets and limit the sources of funding and investment capital that are available to Argentina, and, therefore, the Argentine government’s ability to promote economic growth. On April 30, 2010, Argentina launched a new debt exchange directed to holders of the securities issued in the 2005 debt exchange and to holders of the securities that were eligible to participate in the 2005 debt exchange (other than Brady bonds) to exchange such debt for new securities and, in certain cases, a cash payment. As a result of the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers, Argentina restructured over 91% of the defaulted debt eligible for the 2005 and 2010 exchange offers. The creditors who did not participate in the 2005 or 2010 exchange offers may continue pursuing legal actions against Argentina for the recovery of debt, which could adversely affect Argentina’s access to the international capital markets. In May 2014, the Argentine government reached an agreement with the Secretary of the Paris Club to cancel the outstanding debt in an amount equal to approximately U.S.$ 10 billion (including interest), in several installments during 5 years and starting in July 2014 In addition, foreign shareholders of several Argentine companies have filed claims before the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (the “ICSID”) and the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (the “UNCITRAL”), alleging that certain government measures adopted during the country’s 2001 crisis were inconsistent with the fair and equitable treatment standards set forth in various bilateral investment treaties to which Argentina is a party. Since May 2005, certain plaintiffs have prevailed against Argentina in such proceedings. In October 2013, the Argentine government entered into settlement agreements with certain claimants worth U.S.$677 million, to be satisfied with the delivery of newly issued sovereign bonds. Argentina’s past default and its failure to completely restructure its remaining sovereign debt and fully negotiate with the holdout creditors may limit Argentina’s ability to reenter the international capital markets. Litigation initiated by holdout creditors as well as ICSID and UNCITRAL claims have resulted and may continue to result in judgments and awards against the Argentine government which, if not paid, could prevent Argentina from obtaining credit from multilateral organizations. Judgment creditors have sought and may continue to seek to attach or enjoin assets of Argentina. An example of this is the Libertad Frigate case, in which a commercial court in Accra, Ghana, granted an order (which has been overturned) to detain an Argentine ship which had entered the Accra port on a routine trip. In addition, various creditors have organized themselves into associations to engage in lobbying and public relations efforts concerning Argentina’s default on its public indebtedness. Over the years, such groups have unsuccessfully urged passage of federal and New York state legislation directed at Argentina’s defaulted debt and aimed at limiting Argentina’s access to the U.S. capital markets. Although neither the United States Congress nor the New York state legislature has adopted such legislation, we can make no assurance that legislation or other political actions designed to limit Argentina’s access to capital markets will not take effect. 13 Table of Contents As a result of Argentina’s default and the events that have followed it, the government may not have the financial resources necessary to implement reforms and foster economic growth, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the country’s economy and, consequently, our business and results of operations. Furthermore, Argentina’s inability to obtain credit in international markets could have a direct impact on our own ability to access international credit markets to finance our operations and growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and cause the market value of our ADSs and our Class B common shares to decline. Fluctuations in the value of the Argentine Peso could adversely affect the Argentine economy, which could, in turn adversely affect our results of operations The devaluation of the Argentine Peso could have a negative impact on the financial condition of many Argentine businesses, including us. Such situation could negatively impact the ability of Argentine businesses to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, lead to very high inflation, significantly reduce real wages, jeopardize the stability of businesses whose success depends on domestic market demand, including public utilities and the financial industry, and adversely affect the Argentine government’s ability to honor its foreign debt obligations. After several years of moderate variations in the nominal exchange rate, in 2012, the peso lost approximately 14% of its value with respect to the U.S. Dollar. This was followed in 2013 and 2014 by a devaluation of the peso with respect to the U.S. dollar that exceeded 30%, including a loss of approximately 24% in January 2014. If the Argentine Peso devalues further, the negative effects on the Argentine economy could have adverse consequences to our businesses, our results of operations and the market value of our ADSs, including as measured in U.S. Dollars. On the other hand, a significant appreciation of the Argentine Peso against the U.S. Dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy, including the possibility of a reduction in exports (as a consequence of the loss of external competitiveness). Any such increase could also have a negative effect on economic growth and employment, reduce the Argentine public sector’s revenues from tax collection in real terms, and have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and the market value of our ADSs as a result of the weakening of the Argentine economy in general. Certain measures that may be taken by the Argentine government may adversely affect the Argentine economy and, as a result, our business and results of operations During recent years, the Argentine government has increased its direct intervention in the economy, including through the implementation of expropriation and nationalization measures, price controls and exchange controls. In November 2008, the Argentine government enacted Law No. 26,425 which provided for the nationalization of the Argentine private pension funds (“Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones, the “AFJPs”) (see “The nationalization of Argentina’s private pension funds caused an adverse effect in the Argentine capital markets and increased the Argentine government’s interest in certain stock exchange listed companies, such that the Argentine government became a significant shareholder of such companies”). Beginning in April 2012, the Argentine government provided for the nationalization of YPF S.A. and imposed major changes to the system under which oil companies operate, principally through the enactment of Law No. 26,741 and Decree No. 1,277/2012. In February 2014, the Argentine government and Repsol announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of the compensation payable to Repsol for the expropriation of the YPF shares. Such compensation amounted to US$ 5 billion, payable by delivery of Argentine sovereign bonds with various maturities. Additionally, on December 19, 2012, the Argentine government issued Decree No. 2,552/2012 which, in its article 2, ordered the expropriation of the “Predio Rural de Palermo”. However, on January 4, 2013, the Federal Civil and Commercial Chamber granted an injunction that has temporarily blocked the application of Decree No. 2,552/2012. We cannot assure you that these or other measures that may be adopted by the Argentine government, such as expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, new taxation policies, changes in laws, regulations and policies affecting foreign trade, investment, etc., will not have a material adverse effect on the Argentine economy and, as a consequence, adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations and the market value of our shares and ADSs. 14 Table of Contents Exchange controls and restrictions on capital inflows and outflows may continue to limit the availability of international credit and could threaten the financial system and lead to renewed political and social tensions, adversely affecting the Argentine economy, and, as a result, our business In 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions, substantially limiting the ability of companies to retain foreign currency or make payments abroad. After 2002, these restrictions, including those requiring the Central Bank’s prior authorization for the transfer of funds abroad to pay principal and interest on debt obligations, were substantially eased through 2007. Since the last quarter of 2011, however, new regulation made foreign exchange transactions subject to the prior approval of the Argentine tax authorities. Through a combination of foreign exchange and tax regulations, the Argentine authorities have significantly curtailed access to the foreign exchange market by individuals and private-sector entities. Since 2011, the Argentine government has adopted exchange controls such as requiring an authorization of tax authorities to access the foreign exchange market and introduced measures that have imposed limits on access to the foreign exchange market to retail transactions. It is widely reported that the Peso/U.S. Dollar exchange rate in the unofficial market substantially differs from the official Peso/U.S. Dollar exchange rate. See “Exchange Rates” and “Item 10—Exchange Controls.” In addition to the foreign exchange restrictions, in June 2005 the Argentine government adopted various rules and regulations that established new restrictive controls on capital inflows into the country, including a requirement that, for certain funds remitted into Argentina, an amount equal to 30% of the funds must be deposited into an account with a local financial institution as a U.S. Dollar deposit for a one-year period without any accrual of interest, benefit or other use as collateral for any transaction. The Argentine government could impose further exchange controls, transfer restrictions or restrictions on the movement of capital and/or take other measures in response to capital flight or a significant depreciation of the Peso, which could limit our ability to access the international capital markets and impair our ability to make interest or principal payments abroad. Such measures could lead to renewed political and social tensions and undermine the Argentine government’s public finances, which could adversely affect Argentina’s economy and prospects for economic growth, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and the market value of our shares and ADSs. In addition, the Argentine government or the Central Bank may reinstate certain restrictions on the transfers of funds abroad, impairing our ability to make dividend payments to holders of the ADSs, which may adversely affect the market value of our ADSs. As of the date of this annual report, however, the transfer of funds abroad to pay dividends is permitted to the extent such dividend payments are made in connection with audited financial statements approved by a shareholders’ meeting of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as of the date of this annual report, in light of applicable regulations the financial situation of the Company does not permit the payment of dividends. The nationalization of Argentina’s private pension funds caused an adverse effect in the Argentine capital markets and increased the Argentine government’s interest in certain stock exchange listed companies, such that the Argentine government became a significant shareholder of such companies Prior to 2009, a significant portion of the local demand for securities of Argentine companies came from Argentine private pension funds. In response to the global economic crisis, in December 2008, by means of Argentine Law No. 26,425, the Argentine Congress unified the Argentine pension and retirement system into a system publicly administered by the National Social Security Agency (Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social, or the “ANSES”), eliminating the pension and retirement system previously administered by private managers. In accordance with the new law, private pension managers transferred all of the assets administered by them under the pension and retirement system to the ANSES. With the nationalization of Argentina’s private pension funds, the Argentine government, through ANSES became a significant shareholder in many of the country’s public companies. In April 2011, the Argentine government lifted certain restrictions pursuant to which ANSES was prevented from exercising more than 5% of its voting rights in any stock exchange-listed company (regardless of the equity interest held by ANSES in such companies). ANSES has since exercised its voting rights in excess of such 5% limit in order to appoint directors in different stock exchange-listed companies in which it holds an interest exceeding 5%. ANSES’s interests may differ from those of other investors and, consequently, those investors may understand that ANSES’s actions might have an adverse effect on such companies. As of the date of this annual report, ANSES owns 26.8% of the capital stock of Edenor. 15 Table of Contents The Argentine government has exerted a stronger influence on the operation of stock exchange-listed companies. We cannot assure you that these or other similar actions taken by the Argentine government will not have an adverse effect on the Argentine economy and consequently on our financial condition and results of operations. The Argentine economy could be adversely affected by economic developments in other markets and by more general “contagion” effects Argentine financial and securities markets are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and financial conditions in other markets and Argentina’s economy is vulnerable to external shocks, including those related or similar to the global economic crisis that began in 2008 and economic and financial conditions in Argentina’s major trading partners, in particular Brazil. For example, the current devaluation of the Brazilian currency and the slowdown of its economy may negatively affect the Argentine economy, and in turn, our business and results of operations. Although economic conditions can vary from country to country, investors’ perception of the events occurring in other countries have substantially affected in the past, and may continue to substantially affect capital flows to other countries and the value of securities in other countries, including Argentina. The Argentine economy was adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies in the 1990s, including those in Mexico in 1994, the collapse of several Asian economies between 1997 and 1998, the economic crisis in Russia in 1998 and the Brazilian devaluation of its currency in January 1999. In addition, international investors’ reactions to events occurring in one market sometimes demonstrate a “contagion” effect in which an entire region or class of investment is disfavored by international investors, Argentina could be adversely affected by negative economic or financial developments in other countries, which in turn may have material adverse effect on the Argentine economy and, indirectly, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the market value of our ADSs. Argentina’s economy is vulnerable to external shocks that could be caused by significant economic difficulties of its major regional trading partners Argentina’s economy is vulnerable to adverse developments affecting its principal trading partners. A significant decline in the economic growth of any of Argentina’s major trading partners, such as Brazil, China or the United States, could have a material adverse impact on Argentina’s balance of trade and adversely affect Argentina’s economic growth. Declining demand for Argentine exports, or a decline in the international market prices for those products, could have a material adverse effect on Argentina’s economic growth. The slowdown of Brazil’s economic growth in 2014, which has continued during the first quarter of 2015, has resulted in a contraction in demand for Argentine exports. A prolonged downturn in Brazil’s economy can be expected to adversely impact Argentina’s economic growth. The actions taken by the Argentine government to reduce imports may affect our ability to purchase significant capital goods The Argentine government has adopted some initiatives designed to limit the import of goods in order to prevent further deterioration of the Argentine balance of trade. The restriction of imports may limit or delay our ability to purchase capital goods that are necessary for our operations, which may, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Argentine judicial reforms, as well as challenges thereto, have generated uncertainty with respect to future administrative and judicial proceedings involving the Argentine government Law No. 26,854, which regulates injunctions in cases in which the Argentine government is a party or has intervened, was promulgated on April 30, 2013 as part of a judicial reform bill approved by the Argentine Congress. Among the principal changes proposed in the judicial reform bill are a time limitation on injunctions imposed in proceedings brought against the Argentine government and the creation of three new chambers of Casación (which hear appeals) prior to the intervention of the Supreme Court of Justice of Argentina. In addition, Law No. 26,855, which became effective on May 27, 2013, modified the structure and functions of the Argentine Consejo de la Magistratura (judicial council), which is in charge of appointing judges, of presenting charges against them, and of suspending or deposing them. However, several aspects of the legislation have been struck down by the Supreme Court as unconstitutional and the long-term impact of the newly adopted legislation on Argentina’s legal system and future administrative and/or judicial proceedings, including potential future claims by us against the Argentine government, cannot yet be predicted. 16 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Electricity Distribution Sector The Argentine government has intervened in the electricity sector in the past, and is likely to continue intervening To address the Argentine economic crisis of 2001 and 2002, the Argentine government adopted the Public Emergency Law and other regulations, which made a number of material changes to the regulatory framework applicable to the electricity sector. These changes severely affected electricity generation, distribution and transmission companies and included the freezing of distribution nominal margins, the revocation of adjustment and inflation indexation mechanisms for tariffs, a limitation on the ability of electricity distribution companies to pass on to the consumer increases in costs due to regulatory charges and the introduction of a new price-setting mechanism in the WEM which had a significant impact on electricity generators and caused substantial price differences within the market. The Argentine government has continued to intervene in this sector by, for example, granting temporary nominal margin increases, proposing a new social tariff regime for residents of poverty-stricken areas, removing discretionary subsidies, creating specific charges to raise funds that are transferred to government-managed trust funds that finance investments in generation and distribution infrastructure and mandating investments for the construction of new generation plants and the expansion of existing transmission and distribution networks. Furthermore, on November 15, 2011, the SE issued Note 8,752, which provided that any approval by the provincial governments of increases to the electricity tariffs applicable to end-users as of November 1, 2011 will trigger a proportionate decrease in the federal subsidy available to that end-user in connection with the purchase of electricity. Since the issuance of Note 8,752, certain provincial governments have initiated legal proceedings to challenge the jurisdiction of the SE to issue Note 8,752, particularly because of the potential chilling effect that this regulation may have on the ability of the provincial governments to increase electricity tariffs. As of the date of this annual report, at least one unfavorable ruling against the argentine government has been rendered. These proceedings have not been resolved as of the date of this annual report. In addition to the foregoing, several provincial governments have enacted new regulations in order to charge electricity end-users amounts corresponding to the cuts in the federal subsidy. On November 27, 2012, the SE issued Resolution 2016, which approved the seasonal WEM prices – subsidized and not subsidized − for the period from November 2012 through April 2013. The seasonal price format was modified, concluding in a single purchase price without considering any demand nor time segmentation and taking into account the structure of the demand as of October 2012 as the base. Subsequently, in June 2013, the SE adopted Resolution 408/13, which maintains both the single price and the criteria for raising subsidies during the winter season, with a reduction of the single price only for those months and a subsequent reversion of prices in October 2013. The Argentine government has also announced an analysis of new measures that would change the current regulatory framework of the energy sector. On March 26, 2013, the SE issued Resolution 95, which introduced a new scheme for the remuneration for the electricity generation sector and several modifications to the organization of the WEM, including the suspension of the administration of new contracts, or the renewal of existing contracts, in the term market of the WEM. The price scheme established by Resolution No. 95/2013 of the SE was amended by Resolution No. 529/2014 of the SE, which provided for the modification of the methodology for calculation of the fixed costs remuneration, the implementation of a new remuneration to cover extraordinary maintenance works for thermal generators and the retroactive adjustment of prices as from February 2014. We cannot assure you that these or other measures that may be adopted by the Argentine government will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations or on the market value of our shares and ADSs or that the Argentine government will not adopt emergency legislation similar to the Public Emergency Law or other similar resolutions in the future that may further increase our regulatory obligations, including increased taxes, unfavorable alterations to our tariff structures and other regulatory obligations, compliance with which would increase our costs and have a direct negative impact on our results of operations and cause the market value of our ADSs and Class B common shares to decline. See “