D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the seaborne transportation industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. You should carefully consider the following risks together with the other information described in this section before deciding to invest in our common stock. Any of the risk factors could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition or operating results and the trading price of our stock. You may lose all or part of your investment. 4 Industry Specific Risk Factors The seaborne transportation industry is cyclical and volatile, and this may lead to reductions in our charter rates, vessel values and results of operations. The international seaborne transportation industry is both cyclical and volatile in terms of charter rates and profitability. The degree of charter rate volatility for vessels has varied widely. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity which, in turn is affected by changes in supply and demand for types of cargo internationally carried at sea. For example, demand for drybulk carrier capacity is affected by demand for drybulk cargoes carried internationally at sea such as coal, iron ore and grains and minerals. Demand for tanker capacity is affected by demand for oil and petroleum products and demand for container vessels is affected by demand for semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products. The factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. Additional, factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: · changes in the production of types of cargo such as energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; · the location of regional and global production and manufacturing facilities; · the location of consuming regions for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; · the globalization of production and manufacturing; · actions taken by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and major oil producers and refiners; · global and regional economic and political conditions; · developments in international trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including the distance cargo is transported by sea; · environmental and other regulatory developments; · currency exchange rates; and · weather. Factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · the price of steel; · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; · the number of vessels that are out of service; and · port or canal congestion. 5 We anticipate that the future demand for our vessels and charter rates will be dependent upon continued economic growth in China, India and the rest of the world, seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. We believe the capacity of the world fleet is likely to increase and there can be no assurance that economic growth will continue at a rate sufficient to utilize this new capacity. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could negatively impact charter rates and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Charter rates in the seaborne transportation industry are at levels that remain high relative to historic levels and may decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings and ability to pay dividends. The industry’s current rates are at levels that remain high relative to historic levels in certain sectors. Charter rates for drybulk carriers, tankers and containers reached historically high levels at different times during the period between late 2004 and mid 2005 but declined in certain sectors significantly from these levels. Charter rates for drybulk carriers have increased in the second quarter of 2007 and are currently at historically high levels while charter rates for container vessels and tankers are below their historically high levels reached during the period between late 2004 and mid 2005. The decline, although significant in certain sectors, was to levels that remain high relative to historic levels. If the seaborne transportation industry, which has been highly cyclical, is depressed in the future when our charters expire or at a time when we may want to sell a vessel, our earnings and available cash flow may be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew our existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to operate our business profitably, meet our obligations including payment of debt service to our lenders or to pay dividends to our shareholders. Our ability to renew the charters on our vessels on the expiration or termination of our current charters, or on vessels that we may acquire in the future, the charter rates payable under any replacement charters and vessel values will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the sectors in which our vessels operate at that time, changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for the seaborne transportation of energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products. An over-supply of drybulk carrier and tanker capacity may lead to reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing to respond to increased demand for transportation of drybulk cargoes, and the number of drybulk carriers on order is near historic highs. The market supply of tankers is affected by a number of factors such as demand for energy resources, oil, and petroleum products, as well as strong overall economic growth in parts of the world economy including Asia. Factors that tend to decrease tanker supply include the conversion of tankers to non-tanker purposes and the phasing out of single hull tankers due to legislation and environmental concerns. We believe shipyards are expected to operate more or less at full capacity with their present orderbooks for both drybulk carriers and tankers. An over-supply of drybulk carrier or tanker capacity may result in a reduction of charter hire rates. If a reduction occurs, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels’ current charters, we may only be able to recharter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all. The market value of our vessels remains high relative to historic levels, may fluctuate significantly, and we may incur losses if we sell vessels following a decline in their market value. Values for all sizes of drybulk carriers, tankers and container vessels are near historically high levels. If the seaborne transportation industry, which historically has been highly cyclical, does not maintain these high levels in the future the fair market value of our vessels will decline. 6 The fair market value of our vessels may increase and decrease depending on a number of factors including: · prevailing level of charter rates; · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; · types and sizes of vessels; · supply and demand for vessels; · other modes of transportation; · cost of newbuildings; · governmental or other regulations; and · technological advances. · In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. If the fair market value of our vessels declines, we may incur losses when we sell one or more of our vessels, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our term loan and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. If we sell any vessel at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount on our financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. The seaborne transportation industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive industry that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition among vessel owners for the seaborne transportation of energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products can be intense and depends on the charter rate, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources than we have could operate larger fleets than our fleet and, thus, may be able to offer lower charter rates or higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. If this were to occur, we may be unable to retain or attract new charterers. An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant number of the port calls made by the vessels in our fleet and vessels we may acquire in the future will involve the loading or discharging of energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly China, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. We cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained or that the Chinese economy will not experience slowing or even negative growth in the future. Moreover, any slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union or certain Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to pay dividends as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries. 7 Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five year State Plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through State Plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. We cannot assure you that the Chinese government will continue to pursue a policy of economic reform. The level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Charter rates are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Our fleet consists of nine drybulk carriers and two tanker vessels. We employ all of our vessels on medium-to long-term time charters, except the Olinda, which is trading in the spot market. We may, in the future, employ additional vessels in the spot market. Demand for vessel capacity has historically exhibited seasonal variations and, as a result, in charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results for vessels trading in the spot market. The drybulk sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, our revenues from our drybulk carriers may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, our revenues from our drybulk carriers may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. The tanker sector is also typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of oil and petroleum products in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, our revenues from tankers may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. If we acquire container vessels in the future we will be subject to seasonal trends in the container vessel sector as follows: seasonal trends in the container sector are driven by the import patterns of manufactured goods and refrigerated cargoes by major importers, such as the United States, Europe, Japan and others. The volume of containerized trade is usually higher in the fall in preparation for the holiday season. During this period, container shipping rates are higher, and as a result, the charter rates for containerships are higher. Seasonality in the sectors in which we operate could materially affect our operating results and cash available for dividends in the future. 8 We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These requirements include, but are not limited to, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966 and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, elimination of tin-based paint, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the IMO, International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. As of the date of this annual report, each of our vessels is ISM code-certified. Our vessels may suffer damage due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry and we may experience unexpected dry-docking costs, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. 9 Our vessels and their cargoes will be at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at dry-docking facilities is sometimes limited and not all dry-docking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable dry-docking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a dry-docking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels’ positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant dry-docking facilities would decrease our earnings. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses that may result from our operations due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry. We carry insurance to protect us against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business, including marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes pollution risks, crew insurance and war risk insurance. However, we may not be adequately insured to cover losses from our operational risks, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims and our insurance may be voidable by the insurers if we take, or fail to take, certain action, such as failing to maintain certification of our vessels with applicable maritime regulatory organizations. Any significant uninsured or under-insured loss or liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. In addition, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates in the future during adverse insurance market conditions. As a result of the September 11, 2001 attacks, the U.S. response to the attacks and related concern regarding terrorism, insurers have increased premiums and reduced or restricted coverage for losses caused by terrorist acts generally. Accordingly, premiums payable for terrorist coverage have increased substantially and the level of terrorist coverage has been significantly reduced. In addition, we may not carry loss-of-hire insurance, which covers the loss of revenue during extended vessel off-hire periods, such as those that occur during an unscheduled dry-docking due to damage to the vessel from accidents. Accordingly, any loss of a vessel or extended vessel off-hire, due to an accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We may be subject to calls because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, in amounts based on our claim records and the claim records of our fleet managers as well as the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. In addition, our protection and indemnity associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Labor interruptions could disrupt our business. Our vessels are manned by masters, officers and crews that are employed by our shipowning subsidiaries. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out normally and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. 10 Increased inspection procedures, tighter import and export controls and new security regulations could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination and trans-shipment points. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of the cargo and contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. International container shipping is subject to additional security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin, destination and trans-shipment points. Since the events of September 11, 2001, U.S. authorities have increased container inspection rates. Government investment in non-intrusive container scanning technology has grown, and there is interest in electronic monitoring technology, including so-called “e-seals” and “smart” containers that would enable remote, centralized monitoring of containers during shipment to identify tampering with or opening of the containers, along with potentially measuring other characteristics such as temperature, air pressure, motion, chemicals, biological agents and radiation. It is unclear what changes, if any, to the existing security procedures will ultimately be proposed or implemented, or how any such changes will affect the container shipping industry. These changes have the potential to impose additional financial and legal obligations on carriers and, in certain cases, to render the shipment of certain types of goods by container uneconomical or impractical. These additional costs could reduce the volume of goods shipped in containers, resulting in a decreased demand for container vessels. In addition, it is unclear what financial costs any new security procedures might create for container vessel owners, or whether companies responsible for the global traffic of containers at sea, referred to as container line operators, may seek to pass on certain of the costs associated with any new security procedures to vessel owners. We may acquire container vessels in the future and any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which would interrupt our business. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our business or require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted, which would have a negative effect on our cash flows. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our ships. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. 11 Terrorist attacks and international hostilities can affect the seaborne transportation industry, which could adversely affect our business. We conduct most of our operations outside of the United States, and our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where our vessels are employed or registered. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004 and in London on July 7, 2005 and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to contribute to world economic instability and uncertainty in global financial markets. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and could result in an economic recession in the United States or the world. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, such as the attack on the M/T Limburg in October 2002, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Company Specific Risk Factors We are a newly formed company with a limited history of operations. We are a newly formed company and have a limited performance record and operating history and limited historical financial statements upon which you can evaluate our operations or our ability to implement and achieve our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends. There can be no assurance that dividends will be paid in the anticipated amounts and frequency set forth in this annual report or at all. Our policy is to declare quarterly dividends to shareholders each February, May, August and November. However, we may incur other expenses or liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends, including as a result of the risks described in this section of the annual report. Our credit agreements may also prohibit our declaration and payment of dividends under some circumstances. Under our senior secured credit facility we are prohibited from paying dividends if certain events of default have occurred or will occur. We may also enter into new financing or other agreements that will restrict our ability to pay dividends. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends is subject at all times to the discretion of our board of directors. The timing and amount of dividends depend on our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, fleet renewal and expansion, restrictions in our credit agreements, the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends and other factors. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon the payment of such dividends. However, where there is no surplus, dividends may be declared or paid out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and for the preceding fiscal year. 12 We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or to make dividend payments. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries, which are all wholly-owned by us either directly or indirectly, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our wholly-owned subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to pay dividends. We and our subsidiaries are permitted to pay dividends under our senior secured credit facility only for so long as we are in compliance with all applicable financial covenants, terms and conditions. In addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to limitations on the payment of dividends under Marshall Islands laws discussed above. Obligations associated with being a public company require significant company resources and management attention. We completed our initial public offering in April 2007 and are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and the other rules and regulations of the SEC, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. We will continue to need to dedicate a significant amount of time and resources to ensure compliance with these regulatory requirements. We will continue to work with our legal, accounting and financial advisors to identify any areas in which changes should be made to our financial and management control systems to manage our growth and our obligations as a public company. We will evaluate areas such as corporate governance, corporate control, internal audit, disclosure controls and procedures as well as financial reporting and accounting systems. We will make changes in any of these and other areas, including our internal control over financial reporting, which we believe are necessary. However, these and other measures we may take may not be sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely and reliable basis. In addition, compliance with reporting and other requirements applicable to public companies will create additional costs for us and will require the time and attention of management. Our limited management resources may exacerbate the difficulties in complying with these reporting and other requirements while focusing on executing our business strategy. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur, the timing of such costs or the degree of impact that our management’s attention to these matters will have on our business. We intend to expand our operations into other sectors and own and operate a diversified fleet of vessels which will expose us to a greater number of risks. Our fleet is comprised of nine secondhand drybulk carriers that mainly transport iron ore, coal, grains and minerals, fertilizers and two secondhand tanker vessels that transport crude oil. We intend to grow our fleet and expand our operations into other sectors. Operating a diversified fleet of vessels as opposed to a fleet concentrated in one sector of the seaborne transportation industry requires expertise in multiple sectors and the ability to avoid a greater variety of vessel management risks in order to maintain effective operations. We have selected fleet managers for vessels operating in a certain sector based on the expertise of the particular fleet manager in managing vessels in that sector. Wallem Ship Management Ltd., or Wallem, provides vessel management services to us for our eight Panamax drybulk carriers. Cardiff Marine Inc., or Cardiff, provides vessel management services to us for our Capesize drybulk carrier and our two tanker vessels. We refer to Cardiff and Wallem collectively as our Fleet Managers. We cannot assure you that we or our Fleet Managers will have the requisite expertise to address the greater variety of vessel management risks to which we expect to be exposed as we expand into other sectors. 13 We are entirely dependent on our Fleet Managers to perform the day-to-day management of our fleet. Our executive management team consists of our Chief Executive Officer/interim Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Operating Officer and our Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer. We have entered into an interim management agreement with Cardiff for certain services for an initial period while our senior executive officers establish our internal systems and procedures. As we subcontract the day-to-day vessel management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair to our Fleet Managers, we are dependent on our Fleet Managers and the loss of any of our Fleet Managers’ services or their failure to perform their obligations to us could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Although we may have rights against a Fleet Manager if it defaults on its obligations to us, you will have no recourse directly against a Fleet Manager. Further, we expect that we will need to seek approval from our lenders to change a Fleet Manager. If a Fleet Manager suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships it may harm our ability to: · continue to operate our vessels and service our customers; · renew existing charters upon their expiration; · obtain new charters; · obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; · obtain insurance on commercially acceptable terms; · maintain satisfactory relationships with our customers and suppliers; and · successfully execute our growth strategy. Our Fleet Managers are privately held companies and there may be limited or no publicly available information about them. Our Fleet Managers, Cardiff Marine Inc. and Wallem Shipmanagement Ltd. are privately held companies. The ability of our Fleet Managers to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on their own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair one or more of our Fleet Managers’ financial strength, and there may be limited publicly available information about their financial strength. As a result, an investor in our common shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting our Fleet Managers, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. Two of our directors have relationships with Cardiff which may create conflicts of interest. For a period of 12 months following our initial public offering, we will rely on Cardiff for interim management services related to taking delivery of our fleet and the commencement of our operations. Cardiff is owned by a company controlled by Mrs. Chryssoula Kandylidis, who is the wife of one of our directors, Konstandinos Kandylidis, and is the mother of our Chief Executive Officer/interim Chief Financial Officer, Antonis Kandylidis, and by the Entrepreneurial Spirit Foundation, or the Foundation, which is controlled by Mr. George Economou. Mrs. Chryssoula Kandylidis is the sister of Mr. Economou. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and Cardiff, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with services performed for us by Cardiff under the interim management agreement versus services performed by other companies affiliated with Cardiff and Mr. Economou. In particular, Cardiff may give preferential treatment to vessels that are beneficially owned by other parties because Mr. Economou and members of his family may receive greater economic benefits. 14 Our Fleet Managers may have conflicts of interest between us and other clients of our Fleet Managers. We have subcontracted the day-to-day technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance, supply provisioning and repair to our Fleet Managers. Our contracts with our Fleet Managers have an initial term of one year which will automatically extend for successive one year terms, unless, in each case, at least two months’ advance notice of termination is given by either party. Our Fleet Managers will be providing similar services for vessels owned by other shipping companies including companies with which they are affiliated. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between our Fleet Managers’ performance of their obligations to us, on the one hand, and our Fleet Managers’ performance of their obligations to their other clients on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the crewing, supply provisioning and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus vessels owned by other clients of our Fleet Managers. In particular, our Fleet Managers may give preferential treatment to vessels owned by other clients whose arrangements provide for greater economic benefit to our Fleet Managers. These conflicts of interest may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Companies affiliated with Cardiff own and will acquire vessels that compete with our fleet. We entered into an interim management agreement with Cardiff to provide us with certain services for a period of six months following our initial public offering, which agreement has been extended for up to an additional six months. In addition, Cardiff, a company beneficially owned by the uncle of our Chief Executive Officer and wife of one of our directors, Mr. Konstandinos Kandylidis, currently manages 38 drybulk carriers for DryShips Inc. and also manages 19 tankers and 14 drybulk carriers and supervises the construction of 16 crude oil tankers and 18 drybulk carriers with scheduled delivery dates between 2007 and 2010 on behalf of companies controlled by members of the Economou family. Moreover, Mr. Economou, members of his family and companies affiliated with Cardiff own and will acquire additional vessels in the future. These vessels could be in competition with our fleet. Cardiff may be faced with conflicts of interest with respect to its interests and its obligations to us. We will not be able to take advantage of favorable opportunities in the current spot market with respect to vessels employed on medium- to long-term time charters. Ten of our eleven vessels are employed under medium- to long-term time charters, with expiration dates ranging from June 2008 to December 2012 representing a fleet average remaining term of approximately 24 months. Although medium- and long-term time charters provide relatively steady streams of revenue, vessels committed to medium- and long-term charters may not be available for spot voyages during periods of increasing charter hire rates, when spot voyages may be more profitable. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels. Our strategy is to employ our vessels on fixed rate period charters. While current charter rates are high relative to historical rates, the charter market is volatile, and in the past, charter rates for vessels have declined below operating costs of vessels. If our vessels become available for employment in the spot market or under new period charters during periods when charter rates have fallen, we may have to employ our vessels at depressed charter rates which would lead to reduced or volatile earnings. We cannot assure you that future charter rates will be at a level that will enable us to operate our vessels profitably or to pay dividends or repay our debt. We may be unable to effectively manage our growth. We intend to continue to grow our fleet. Our growth will depend on: · locating and acquiring suitable vessels; · identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; 15 · obtaining required financing; · integrating any acquired business successfully with our existing operations; · enlarging our customer base; · hiring additional shore-based employees and seafarers; and · managing our expansion. We intend to finance our growth with the net proceeds of future debt and equity offerings. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty in obtaining additional qualified personnel and managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. The expansion of our fleet may impose significant additional responsibilities on our management and staff, and the management and staff of our Fleet Managers, and may necessitate that we, and they, increase the number of personnel. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection therewith. If our Fleet Managers are unable to recruit suitable seafarers for our fleet or as we expand our fleet, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We rely on our Fleet Managers to recruit suitable senior officers and crews for our fleet. In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will have to rely on our Fleet Managers to recruit suitable additional seafarers. We cannot assure you that our Fleet Managers will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If our Fleet Managers’ crewing agents encounter business or financial difficulties, they may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. The seafarers who are employed on the ships in our fleet are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements that set basic standards. We cannot assure you that these agreements will prevent labor interruptions. If our Fleet Managers are unable to recruit suitable seafarers as we expand our fleet, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends may be materially adversely affected. The operation of drybulk carriers and tankers each involve certain unique operational risks. The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship can be a risk factor. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the drybulk carrier. Drybulk carriers damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to a breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of their holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the drybulk carrier’s bulkheads leading to the loss of the drybulk carrier. The operation of tankers has unique operational risks associated with the transportation of oil. An oil spill may cause significant environmental damage, and a catastrophic spill could exceed the insurance coverage available. Compared to other types of vessels, tankers are exposed to a higher risk of damage and loss by fire, whether ignited by a terrorist attack, collision, or other cause, due to the high flammability and high volume of the oil transported in tankers. If we are unable to adequately maintain or safeguard our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. 16 We may be unable to attract and retain key senior management personnel and other employees in the seaborne transportation industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends upon our ability to hire and retain key members of our senior management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. We do not intend to maintain ‘‘key man’’ life insurance on any of our officers. Our executive officers could receive substantial sums based on payments on our dividend participation rights if our quarterly dividends to our shareholders are increased, reducing the amount of cash that would otherwise have been available for increased dividends to our common and subordinated shareholders. Our Equity Incentive Plan provides for the award of dividend participation rights. If our board of directors determines to award such dividend participation rights, our executive officers would have the right to receive payments on our dividend participation rights in respect of incremental dividends. These payments will reduce the amount of cash which would otherwise have been available to increase the amount to be paid as dividends to our shareholders or to repay our debt. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased drydocking costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. Even following a physical inspection of secondhand vessels prior to purchase, we do not have the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Accordingly, we may not discover defects or other problems with such vessels prior to purchase. Defects or problems discovered after purchase may be expensive to repair, and if not detected, may result in accidents or other incidents for which we may become liable to third parties. Generally, we do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. Increased drydocking costs or vessels off-hire may adversely affect our earnings. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Our current fleet has an average age of 12.3 years. Older vessels are typically less fuel-efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Unless we set aside reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement, at the end of a vessel’s useful life our revenue will decline, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement we will be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their remaining useful lives, which we expect to range from 25 years to 30 years, depending on the type of vessel. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends will be materially and adversely affected. Any reserves set aside for vessel replacement may not be available for dividends. 17 Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. The cost of fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability for vessels trading in the spot market. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geo-political developments, supply and demand for oil, actions by members of OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns and regulations. Investment in derivative instruments such as freight forward agreements could result in losses. From time to time, we may take positions in derivative instruments including freight forward agreements or FFAs. FFAs and other derivative instruments may be used to hedge a vessel owner’s exposure to the charter market by providing for the sale of a contracted charter rate along a specified route and period of time. Upon settlement, if the contracted charter rate is less than the average of the rates, as reported by an identified index, for the specified route and time period, the seller of the FFA is required to pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the contracted rate and the settlement rate, multiplied by the number of days in the specified period. Conversely, if the contracted rate is greater than the settlement rate, the buyer is required to pay the seller the settlement sum. If we take positions in FFAs or other derivative instruments and do not correctly anticipate charter rate movements over the specified route and time period, we could suffer losses in the settling or termination of the FFA. This could adversely affect our results of operation and cash flow. We will depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We expect to derive a significant part of our revenue from a small number of customers. Ten of our eleven vessels are employed under fixed rate period charters to seven customers. If one or more of these customers is unable to perform under one or more charters with us and we are not able to find a replacement charter, or if a customer exercises certain rights to terminate the charter, we could suffer a loss of revenues that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution as dividends to our shareholders. We could lose a customer or the benefits of a time charter if, among other things: · the customer fails to make charter payments because of its financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise; · the customer terminates the charter because we fail to deliver the vessel within a fixed period of time, the vessel is lost or damaged beyond repair, there are serious deficiencies in the vessel or prolonged periods of off-hire, default under the charter; or · the customer terminates the charter because the vessel has been subject to seizure for more than a specified number of days. If we lose a key customer, we may be unable to obtain charters on comparable terms or may become subject to the volatile spot market, which is highly competitive and subject to significant price fluctuations. The loss of any of our customers, time charters or vessels, or a decline in payments under our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. 18 A decline in the market value of our vessels could lead to a default under our senior secured credit facility and the loss of our vessels through foreclosure. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our senior secured credit facility, which is secured by the vessels in our fleet and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. For example, if the market value of the vessels financed under our senior secured credit facility declines below approximately 140% of the aggregate amount outstanding under our senior secured credit facility, we will not be in compliance with certain debt covenants, and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. We expect that the market value of our fleet will be above the minimum market value required by our senior secured credit facility. However, should our charter rates or vessel values materially decline in the future due to any of the reasons discussed in the risk factors set forth above or otherwise, we may be required to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives to meet these ratios and satisfy these provisions. Events beyond our control, including changes in the economic and business conditions in the shipping sectors in which we operate, may affect our ability to comply with these covenants. We cannot assure you that we will satisfy this requirement or that our lenders will waive any failure to do so. We cannot assure you that we will be able to borrow amounts under our senior secured credit facility and restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility may impose financial and other restrictions on us. Our ability to borrow amounts under our senior secured credit facility will be subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions precedent and compliance with terms and conditions included in the loan documents. Prior to each drawdown, we will be required, among other things, to provide the lender with acceptable valuations of the vessels in our fleet confirming that they are sufficient to satisfy minimum security requirements. To the extent that we are not able to satisfy these requirements, including as a result of a decline in the value of our vessels, we may not be able to drawdown the full amount under our senior secured credit facility without obtaining a waiver or consent from the lender. We will also not be permitted to borrow amounts under the facility if we experience a change of control. Our senior secured credit facility also imposes operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees; · create or permit liens on our assets; · sell our vessels or the capital stock of our subsidiaries; · make investments; · change the flag or classification society of our vessels; · pay dividends (as described under “We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends”); · make capital expenditures; · compete effectively to the extent our competitors are subject to less onerous financial restrictions; and · change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel. 19 These restrictions could limit our ability to finance our operations or capital needs, make acquisitions or pursue available business opportunities. In addition, our senior secured credit facility will require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial covenants. We expect to be able to comply with all of these specified financial ratios and financial covenants. However, should our charter rates or vessel values materially decline in the future due to any of the reasons discussed in the industry specific risk factors set forth above or otherwise, we may be required to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives to meet these ratios and satisfy these covenants. Events beyond our control, including changes in the economic and business conditions in the shipping markets in which we operate, may affect our ability to comply with these covenants. We cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios or satisfy these covenants or that our lenders will waive any failure to do so. A breach of any of the covenants in, or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios under, our senior secured credit facility would prevent us from borrowing additional money under this facility and could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility. If a default occurs under our term loan, the lenders could elect to declare the outstanding debt, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against the collateral securing that debt, which could constitute all or substantially all of our assets. Therefore, our discretion is limited because we may need to obtain consent from our lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ consent when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be dependent on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources required to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at anticipated costs or at all may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any indebtedness incurred under our senior secured credit facility. We have partially financed the acquisition of our vessels with secured indebtedness drawn under our senior secured credit facility. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance amounts drawn under our senior secured credit facility at an interest rate or on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are not able to refinance these amounts with the net proceeds of debt and equity offerings at an interest rate or on terms acceptable to us or at all, we will have to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest of this indebtedness. If we are not able to satisfy these obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, any defaults by them, and the market value of our fleet, among other things, may materially affect our ability to obtain alternative financing. In addition, debt service payments under our credit facility or alternative financing may limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures, the payment of dividends and other purposes. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, or if we otherwise default under our credit facility or an alternative financing arrangement, our lenders could declare the debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on our fleet, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. We may be subject to tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source shipping income and as such is subject to a four percent United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated hereunder. 20 We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we intend to take this position for United States federal income tax return reporting purposes for the 2007 taxable year. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income. For example 5% shareholders may own 50% or more of our outstanding common shares. In such a case, we would not be eligible for this statutory tax exemption unless we were able to establish that among our 5% shareholders, there are sufficient 5% shareholders that are qualified shareholders for purposes of Section 883 to preclude non-qualified 5% shareholders from owning 50% or more of our common shares for more than half the number of days during the taxable year. In order to establish this, 5% shareholders would have to provide us with certain information in order to substantiate their identity as qualified shareholders. Certain of our 5% shareholders have agreed to provide us with this information. However, due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries in the future. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for those years to a four percent United States federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company”, which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, cash is treated as an asset that produces “passive income” and “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC may be subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. There is a risk that we may be treated as a PFIC for the 2006 taxable year. Although we intend to take the position that we were not a PFIC during the 2006 taxable year pursuant to a special “start-up” exception, there is little guidance regarding the application of this exception. Therefore, there is a risk that the IRS or a court may disagree with our position and treat us as a PFIC for the 2006 taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for the 2006 taxable year, any dividends paid on our common shares during 2007 to a U.S. shareholder that is an individual, trust or estate will be taxable as ordinary income rather than as “qualified dividend income.” Please read “Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Distributions” for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC for the 2006 taxable year. We do not believe that we were a PFIC during the 2007 taxable year or that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year after the 2007 taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute “passive income,” and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. 21 If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year beginning with the 2007 taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then highest income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of our common shares. Please read “Tax Considerations—United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders” for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. Because we generate all of our revenues in dollars but incur a significant portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in dollars but we incur a portion of our expenses in currencies other than the dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the dollar falls in value can increase, decreasing our revenues. Further declines in the value of the dollar could lead to higher expenses payable by us. There is no guarantee that there will continue to be an active and liquid public market for you to resell our common stock in the future. The price of our common stock may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry; · mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; · market conditions in the segments of the shipping industry in which we operate; · changes in government regulation; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; · announcements concerning us or our competitors; and · the general state of the securities market. The drybulk and tanker industries have been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for our common stock may be equally volatile. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law and as a result, shareholders may have fewer rights and protections under Marshall Islands law than under a typical jurisdiction in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and by-laws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. 22 It may not be possible for investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We and all of our subsidiaries are incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. and substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the U.S. In addition, most of our directors and officers are non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our subsidiaries or our directors and officers or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. Item 