Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Our revenues and earnings depend substantially upon conditions in the airline industry, and a significant or prolonged downturn in the airline industry could decrease demand for our services and products. Our revenues are principally derived from the provision of MRO services to airlines, air cargo carriers, MRO service centers and the military; and the provision of parts services for commercial, regional and charter airlines and business aircraft owners. Any further downturn in the commercial aircraft industry could materially decrease demand for our services and products and negatively impact our financial condition. The commercial airline industry is cyclical and has historically been subject to fluctuations due to general economic and political conditions, such as fuel and labor costs, price competition, downturns in the global economy and national and international events. In the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, passenger traffic on commercial flights was significantly lower than prior to the attacks. Most commercial airlines reduced their operating schedules, lowered fares and implemented cost reduction initiatives. In addition, war or armed hostilities or the fear of such events, could further exacerbate many of the problems experienced as a result of terrorist attacks. Future terrorist attacks, war or armed hostilities, the outbreak of SARS or other epidemic diseases such as avian influenza, or the fear of such events, could further negatively impact the airline industry. These factors, as well as last year’s increases in fuel costs, have resulted in large and, in some cases, continuing financial losses in the airline industry. Major carriers around the world have recently emerged from bankruptcy protection or are in the process of doing so. Financial losses and reduced schedules in the airline industry have resulted, and will continue to result, in reduced orders and delivery delays of new commercial aircraft, parking and retirement of older aircraft (eliminating those aircraft from maintenance needs) and delays in airlines’ purchases of aftermarket parts and service as maintenance is deferred. During periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories. If demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. 13 The aerospace industry is subject to significant government regulation and oversight, and we may have to incur significant additional costs to comply with these regulations. The aerospace industry is highly regulated in the United States and in other countries. We must be certified or accepted by the FAA, the United States Department of Defense, the European Aviation Safety Agency, or EASA, and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual OEMs in order to manufacture, sell and service parts used in aircraft. If any of our material certifications, authorizations or approvals are revoked or suspended, our operations will be significantly curtailed and we could be subjected to significant fines and penalties. In the future, new and more demanding government regulations may be adopted or industry oversight may be increased. We may have to incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance with new regulations or to reacquire a revoked or suspended license or approval, which could reduce our profitability. We compete with a number of established companies in all aspects of our business, many of which have significantly greater resources or capabilities than we do. The market for MRO services and parts services is highly competitive. Competition in the MRO market is based on price, quality, engineered solutions, ability to provide a broad range of services, turn-around time, and the ability to perform repairs and overhauls rapidly. Our primary MRO services competitors are the service divisions of OEMs, the in-house maintenance services of a number of commercial airlines and other independent service providers. For heat transfer component MRO services, our major competitors are the LORI Heat Transfer Center of Honeywell (Tulsa, Oklahoma) and SECAN-Honeywell (France). For APU, propeller and landing gear MRO services, our major competitors are Standard Aero Group Inc., Aerotech International Inc., Honeywell, Alameda Aerospace, Chromalloy, Messier-Dowty Aerospace (MD), AAR Corp., Hawker Pacific, APPH Ltd., Aero Precision Repair and Overhaul Company Inc, or APRO, Aircraft Propeller Service Inc, Pacific Propeller International LLC and H&H Propeller. For our OEM heat transfer equipment, our major competitors are other OEMs who manufacture heat transfer equipment, including the Hughes-Treitler division of Ametek Inc., Lytron Inc., Hamilton Sundstrand and Honeywell. The parts services industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Competition in this market is based on price, quality, prompt delivery and service. Competitors in this segment include original equipment manufacturers, the service divisions of large commercial airlines and other independent suppliers and distributors of parts. A number of our competitors have inherent competitive advantages. For example, we compete with the service divisions of large OEMs who in some cases have design authority with respect to their OEM products and are able to derive significant brand recognition from their OEM manufacturing activities. We also compete with the in-house service divisions of large commercial airlines and there is a strong incentive for an airline to fully-utilize the services of its maintenance employees and facilities. Further, our competitors may have additional competitive advantages, such as: · the ability to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements and industry conditions or trends; 14 · greater access to capital; · stronger relationships with customers and suppliers; · greater name recognition; and · access to superior technology and marketing resources. If we are unable to overcome these competitive disadvantages, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The loss of a significant MRO services customer would reduce demand for our services and our sales. Because of the high degree of concentration in the airline industry, and the importance of a few large customers for our MRO services, our MRO business is exposed to a high degree of risk related to customer concentration. In the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, our five largest MRO customers accounted for approximately 30% and 28%, respectively, of our MRO revenues. A loss of significant business from any of these customers would be harmful to our profitability. Our revenue is subject to a high degree of volatility and a reduction in demand will have an adverse affect on our operative results. The profitability of our parts services business is driven by the needs of our customers whose demand for replacement parts is constantly fluctuating. Some of our customers may, from time to time, place single orders for a large amount of parts in conjunction with the overhaul of a significant portion of their active fleet. This segment of our business is subject to a high degree of volatility due to the potential impact of large one-time parts purchases A reduction in demand for parts by one or more of our significant clients would have an adverse affect on our operating results. We may be unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates, successfully integrate our acquired operations or realize the intended benefits of our acquisitions. One of our business strategies is to pursue targeted complementary business acquisition opportunities. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. Any growth through acquisitions will be dependent upon the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices, the availability of financing for all or some portion of the acquisition cost, and upon advantageous terms and conditions. We intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. However, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms. We may not be able to raise the money necessary to complete future acquisitions. In addition, acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. Further, we cannot assure you that our acquisition strategies will be successfully received by customers or investors or achieve their intended benefits. 15 If we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. The successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service and attract customers and develop new products and services. We have fixed-price contracts with some of our customers and we bear the risk of costs in excess of our estimates. We have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our MRO and OEM customers. Pursuant to these contracts, we realize all the benefits or costs resulting from any increases or decreases in the cost of providing services to these customers. Most of our contracts do not permit us to recover for increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs. Any increase in these costs could increase the cost of operating our business and reduce our profitability. Factors such as inaccurate pricing and increases in the cost of labor, materials or overhead may result in cost over-runs and losses on those agreements. We may not succeed in obtaining an agreement of a customer to reprice a particular product, and we may not be able to recoup previous losses resulting from incomplete or inaccurate engineering data. Our U.S. government contracts contain requirements to implement security measures, unfavorable termination provisions and are subject to modification and audit. Consequently, we are subject to certain business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the U.S. government. Approximately 16.0% and 7.3% of our revenues were related to MRO services provided to the U.S. government for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We are subject to risks particular to contracts with governmental authorities. These risks include the ability of the governmental authorities to unilaterally: · suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; · terminate existing contracts, with or without cause, at any time; · reduce the value of existing contracts; · audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; and · control or potentially prohibit the export of our products. A decision by a governmental authority to take any or all of the actions listed above could materially reduce our sales and profitability. Most of our U.S. Government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. Government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. In addition, under certain of our U.S. Government contracts, we are required to implement a number of security measures that must be maintained and if we are unable to maintain certain measures these contracts may be terminated and the U.S. Government may impose fines upon us. 16 A decline in U.S. military spending could result in a reduction of the amount of products and services we sell to the U.S. Government. Future U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, budgets could be negatively impacted by several factors, including but not limited to the U.S. Government’s budget deficits and spending priorities and the cost of sustaining the U.S. military presence and rebuilding operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which could cause the DOD budget to remain unchanged or to decline. A prompt withdrawal from Iraq or Afghanistan may result in a significant decline in U.S. military expenditures, which could result in a reduction in the amount of our products and services provided to the various agencies and buying organizations of the U.S. Government. A portion of our revenue is derived from international sources, which exposes us to additional uncertainty. In the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 30.9% and 30.3%, respectively were derived from providing services to clients located outside of North America. This source of revenue is subject to various risks, including: · governmental embargoes or foreign trade restrictions; · changes in U.S. and foreign governmental regulations; · changes in foreign exchange rates; · tariffs; · other trade barriers; · political, economic and social instability; and · difficulties in accounts receivable collections. We depend on our key executives, and may not be able to hire and retain additional key employees or successfully integrate new members of our team and the loss of a key employee could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success will depend largely on our reliance on the experience and expertise of our senior management. Although we have entered into employment agreements with most members of our senior management, any of our senior managers may terminate their employment with us and seek employment with others who may seek their expertise. The loss of the expertise of any of our senior management through death, disability or termination of employment would have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are not the beneficiary of life or disability insurance covering any of our executives, key employees or other personnel. 17 Our ability to implement our business strategy will depend on our success in recruiting, retaining and successfully integrating our management team and other personnel. If we are unable to retain employees and to attract and integrate new members of our management team, key employees or other personnel, we may be unable to successfully implement our business strategy in a timely manner. If we are unable to do so or if we were to lose the services of our senior executives or key employees, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any interruption in the work force at our facilities could have a material adverse impact on our ability to keep our customers’ aircraft in service. We derive the majority of our sales from overhaul services for components delivered to us from time to time by our customers. Because we maintain a relatively small inventory of loaner replacement parts for our MRO services business which we allow our customers to use while their parts are being repaired, an interruption of our work force due to strikes, work stoppages, shortages of appropriately skilled production and professional workers or other interruption could have a material adverse impact on both our ability to keep our customers’ aircraft in service while we perform overhaul services and to maintain our customers’ satisfaction with our services. Our business and profitability are affected by the price and continuity of supply of certain component parts. We rely on Honeywell, Hamilton Sundstrand and TAT for parts for our MRO services and parts services business segments. If we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of parts from Honeywell, Hamilton Sundstrand, TAT or other OEMs at commercially reasonable prices, our operations could be interrupted. We have at times experienced contractual disputes with and delays in receiving parts from our key suppliers and any significant disputes or delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Increased costs associated with supplied materials or components could increase our costs and reduce our profitability if we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers. We maintain a relatively small inventory of component parts for resale and our parts services business would suffer if the supply of replacement parts were reduced or terminated by our suppliers. There are other companies that may be able to supply us with necessary component parts. However, these potential suppliers would be required to undergo FAA, EASA and OEM certification, and this would make it difficult for us to change suppliers in a timely and cost-effective manner. The Relocation of our Oklahoma operations could have a material adverse impact on our business. We have decided to relocate the operations of our Oklahoma subsidiary to the location of our Piedmont subsidiary in North Carolina. We anticipate closing the Oklahoma operations by the end of June 2009. The goal of this relocation is to achieve significant annual cost savings. There can be no assurances that these savings will be achieved. We anticipate incurring approximately $2.4 million in pre-tax costs (substantially all of which will result in cash expenditures). While we anticipate that these costs will be offset by the sale of our Oklahoma land and building and the sale of certain assets, there can be no assurances that the actual costs won’t materially exceed our estimate or that we will be able to sell the Oklahoma land and other assets at the anticipated price. In addition, there can be no assurances that we can complete the relocation on a timely basis and without material disruption of our business. Any of such events could have a material impact on our financial condition. 18 We depend on our facilities, and any damage to these facilities would adversely impact our operations. We believe that our success to date has been, and future results of operations will be, dependent in large part upon our ability to provide MRO services and to manufacture and deliver OEM products promptly upon receipt of orders and to provide prompt and efficient service to our customers. As a result, any disruption of our day-today operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, customer relations and profitability. We rely on our facilities for the provision of our MRO services, the production of our OEM products and the provision of our parts services. A fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster or condition that significantly damaged or destroyed any of these facilities or a delay in the relocation of our Oklahoma operations would have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have potential exposure to liabilities arising under environmental laws and regulations. Our business operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state, and local laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and hazardous substances into the air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials and other environmental matters. Compliance with such laws as they relate to the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances is a significant obligation for us at each of our facilities. We would be subject to serious consequences, including fines and other sanctions, and limitations on our operations due to changes to, or revocations of, the environmental permits applicable to our facilities if we fail to comply. The adoption of new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new cleanup requirements could require us to incur costs and become subject to new or increased liabilities that could increase our operating costs and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our business. Under certain environmental laws, liability associated with investigation or remediation of hazardous substances can arise at a broad range of properties, including properties currently or formerly operated by us or our predecessors, as well as properties to which we sent hazardous substances or wastes for treatment, storage, or disposal. Costs and other obligations can arise from claims for toxic torts, natural resource and other damages, as well as the investigation and clean up of contamination at such properties. Under certain environmental laws, such liability may be imposed jointly and severally, so we may be responsible for more than our proportionate share and may even be responsible for the entire liability at issue. The extent of any such liability can be difficult to predict. We are exposed to potential liabilities arising from product liability and warranty claims. Our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that has been designed, manufactured, serviced or supplied by us. Based upon our experience in the industry, we believe that, in an effort to improve operating margins, some customers may, from time to time delay replacement of parts beyond their recommended lifetime, which could undermine aircraft safety and increase our risk of liability. 19 We cannot assure you that we will not experience any material product liability losses in the future, that we will not incur significant costs to defend such claims, that our insurance coverage will be adequate if claims were to arise or that we would be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our available insurance coverage may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business contractual disputes over warranties can arise. We may be subject to requests for cost sharing or pricing adjustments from our customers as a part of our commercial relationships with them, even though they have agreed to bear these risks. We use equipment that is not easily repaired or replaced, and therefore equipment failures could cause us to be unable to meet quality or delivery expectations of our customers. Many of our service and manufacturing processes are dependent on equipment that is not easily repaired or replaced. As a result, unexpected failures of this equipment could result in production delays or the manufacturing of defective products. Our ability to meet the expectations of our customers with respect to on-time delivery of repaired components or quality OEM products is critical. Our failure to meet the quality or delivery expectations of our customers could lead to the loss of one or more of our significant customers. Risks Related to Relationship with TAT TAT and its parent control the majority of the voting power of our shares of common stock and as a result can control the outcome of any shareholder vote. This concentration of ownership could adversely affect the trading price of our stock. TAT owns approximately 61.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, TAT and its ultimate controlling stockholder, KMN Holdings Ltd. (“KMN”) are able to exercise considerable influence over our operations and business strategy and control the outcome of all matters involving shareholder approval. For so long as TAT owns more than 50% of our shares of common stock, it, and KMN indirectly, will have the power to approve all matters requiring approval of common shareholders, including the election of all members of our board of directors, and appointing management. TAT will also exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations involving us, including our acquisition or disposition of assets, and other aspects of our business and affairs. The directors nominated by TAT will have the ability to control decisions affecting our capital structure, including issuing additional capital stock, establishing stock purchase programs and declaring dividends. So long as TAT remains a significant shareholder, this concentration of stock ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, which could deprive other shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their common stock as part of a transaction such as a proxy contest, tender offer, merger or other purchase of common stock. In addition, this concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in a company with a significant shareholder. 20 The interests of TAT may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. For example, TAT could oppose a third party offer to acquire us that you might consider attractive, and the third party may not be able or willing to proceed unless TAT supports the offer. In addition, if our board of directors supports a transaction requiring an amendment to our certificate of incorporation, TAT will continue to be in a position to defeat any required shareholder approval of the proposed amendment. If our board of directors supports an acquisition of us by means of a merger or a similar transaction, the vote of TAT alone will be sufficient to approve or block the transaction under Delaware law. In each of these cases and in similar situations, our other shareholders may disagree with TAT as to whether the action opposed or supported by TAT is in the best interests of our shareholders. We have entered into a number of agreements with TAT setting forth various matters governing our relationship with TAT. These agreements govern our ongoing relationship with TAT. We will not be able to unilaterally terminate these agreements or amend them in a manner we deem more favorable to us so long as TAT continues to control the voting power of our shares of common stock. Our historical financial information may not be representative of the results we would have achieved as a separate stand-alone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical financial information included in this annual report reflects our operation as a wholly-owned subsidiary of TAT prior to our initial public offering in July 2007 and the consolidation of the operations of Piedmont since its acquisition in July 2005. Therefore, our historical financial information may not reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been an independent company during the periods presented or what our results will be in the future. This is primarily a result of the following factors: · we cannot expect TAT to provide financial support in the future; · our historical financial results do not reflect any of the costs and expenses associated with our being a public company; and · our historical financial results do not reflect the operations of Piedmont prior to July 1, 2005. Conflicts of interest may arise between TAT and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Conflicts of interest may arise between TAT and us in a number of areas relating to our ongoing relationships. At present three of TAT’s directors serve as directors of our company. Areas in which conflicts of interest between TAT and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: · Cross directorships, employment and share ownership. The ongoing relationships of certain of our directors and executive officers with TAT and/or their interests in the ordinary shares of TAT could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to disagreements over the desirability of a potential acquisition opportunity, or a change in dividend policy. 21 · Intercompany transactions. We expect to continue to enter into transactions with TAT as part of our day-to-day business activities. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of TAT and us, subject to the approval of the independent directors on our board or a committee of disinterested directors, there can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us as may otherwise be obtained in arm’slength negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. · Intercompany agreements. We have entered into agreements with TAT pursuant to which it provides us with heat transfer components and engineering support for our MRO operations with respect to such components. We have also agreed with TAT that we will not, except in certain limited circumstances, compete with each other in the sale of OEM heat transfer components and the provision of MRO services for heat transfer components. The terms of these agreements were established while we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of TAT and were approved by the independent directors of our board. We have also entered into a registration rights agreement with TAT concerning the registration for resale of our common stock by them. Conflicts could arise in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of these existing agreements. Future sales or distributions of our shares of common stock by TAT could depress the market price for shares of our common stock. TAT may sell all or some of the shares of our common stock that it owns or distribute those shares to its shareholders. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with TAT granting it the right to require us to register for resale its shares of common stock under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Sales or distributions by TAT of substantial amounts of our shares of common stock in the public market or to its shareholders could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our shares of common stock. TAT is not subject to any contractual obligation that would prohibit it from selling, spinning off, splitting off or otherwise disposing of any of our shares of common stock. Risks Related to Our Common Stock If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our stock price may suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to comprehensively evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures annually; our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal controls over financial reporting annually. In the future, our independent auditors will be required to issue an opinion on our internal controls over financial reporting. As a public company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. 22 If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards as then in effect and as supplemented or amended from time to time, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. As a result we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory agencies such as the SEC and we may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports or otherwise maintain appropriate internal controls, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price for our stock could decline significantly and we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business. We do not anticipate paying dividends on shares of our common stock. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment in our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 