D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the sectors of the seaborne transportation industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows and the trading price of our securities could decline. Industry Specific Risk Factors Charterhire rates for drybulk carriers and tanker vessels have been very volatile, which may adversely affect our earnings The drybulk and tanker shipping industries are cyclical with attendant volatility in charterhire rates and profitability. The degree of charterhire rate volatility among different types of drybulk and tanker carriers has varied widely. For example after reaching historical highs in mid-2008, charterhire rates for Panamax and Capesize drybulk carriers reached near historically low levels in 2009 and thereafter recovered considerably in 2010. We currently employ our drybulk carriers on long term time charters. We cannot ensure that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations in the future. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: • supply and demand for refined petroleum products and crude oil for tankers and drybulk commodities for drybulk carriers; • changes in crude oil production and refining capacity for tankers and drybulk commodity production for drybulk carriers and resulting shifts in trade flows for crude oil, petroleum products and drybulk commodities; • the location of regional and global exploration, production and manufacturing facilities; • the location of consuming regions for energy resources and commodities; • the globalization of production and manufacturing; • competition from alternative sources of energy; • global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts, terrorist activities; and piracy; nationalizations, sanctions, embargoes and strikes; • developments in international trade and fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including the distance cargo is transported by sea; • environmental and other legal and regulatory developments; • currency exchange rates; and • weather and acts of God and natural disasters, including hurricanes and typhoons. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • current and expected purchase orders for vessels; • port and canal congestion; 5 • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • vessel freight rates; • the price of steel and vessel equipment; • vessel casualties; and • the number of vessels that are out of service or converted to other use. We anticipate that the future demand for our vessels will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world's economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk carrier and tanker fleets and the sources and supply of drybulk cargo and oil and oil products to be transported by sea. The capacity of the global drybulk carrier and tanker fleet seems likely to increase and there can be no assurance that economic growth will continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The downturns in the drybulk carrier and tanker charter markets and related declines in vessel values may have an adverse effect on our earnings, affect compliance with our loan covenants, require us to raise additional capital in order to comply with our loan covenants, and affect our ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future. The Baltic Dry Index (BDI), an average daily index of charter rates in 26 shipping routes measured on a time charter and voyage basis covering Supramax, Panamax and Capesize drybulk carriers, recovered significantly in 2010 as compared to the low of the fourth quarter of 2008. The 2010 average of the BDI was 2,761, which is about 8.1% lower than the 2009 average of 3,005 and 287% higher than the December 2008 average of 743. However, this is still below the BDI's high of 10,844 reached in May 2008. As of April 7, 2011, the BDI stands at 1,401. A decline in the drybulk market will result in lower charter rates for vessels exposed to the spot market and time charters linked to the BDI. Our drybulk carriers are presently employed under time charters that are not directly linked to the BDI. Drybulk vessel values have also rebounded in part since 2008's steep decline. Charter rates and vessel values were severely affected in 2008, in part by the lack of availability of credit to finance both vessel purchases and purchases of commodities carried by sea, resulting in a decline in cargo shipments, and the excess supply of iron ore in China that resulted in falling iron ore prices and increased stockpiles in Chinese ports. The increase in drybulk vessel values in 2009 resulted primarily from cheaper prices for raw materials from producing countries like Brazil and Australia compared to raw materials produced domestically in Asia; consequently China has increased its imports of raw materials. In 2008, China's iron ore imports comprised about 65% of the total volume of iron transported by sea. In 2009, this number increased to about 80% and in 2010 this number dropped slightly due to the global recovery of the steel industry. There can be no assurance as to how long charter rates and vessel values will remain at their current levels or whether they will experience significant volatility. The decline in vessel values in the drybulk carrier and tanker markets resulted in an impairment loss of $52.7 million that we recorded in 2009 due to the impairment of the M/T Pink Sands and the M/T Tamara. In addition, the decline resulted in a loss from sale of vessels and vessels held for sale we recorded in 2009 of $133.2 million, and a loss from sale of vessels and vessels held for sale in 2010 of $62.9 million. The losses in 2010 were recorded as a result of the sale of the M/V Pierre, M/T Tigani and M/T Pink Sands and the classification of the M/T Tamara, M/V Austin, M/V Trenton and M/V Augusta as vessels held for sale. The losses in 2009 were recorded as a result of the sale of the M/V Lansing, M/V Richmond and M/V Juneau and the classification of the M/V Pierre, M/T Olinda and M/T Tigani as vessels held for sale. The tanker industry has an inherent volatility caused by seasonal demand fluctuations. During the fall, refineries typically build stockpiles to cover demand for heating distillates during the winter. Early in the spring the refineries move into a maintenance period in order to switch production to gasoline instead of heavy distillates. This results in the reduction of required seaborne transportation of oil. As a general pattern, demand for petroleum products during the summer is less than the demand for such products during the winter. This seasonality is reflected in the time charter equivalent rate for a Suezmax tanker route loading in West Africa and discharging in the U.S. Atlantic Coast, where the average rate was $18,796 per day during August, 2010 compared to $32,503 per day during September 2010. In response to a significant decline in oil prices during 2008, OPEC significantly reduced oil supply, causing WTI oil prices to recover from a low of $34 per barrel in December 2008 to an average WTI oil price of approximately $62 per barrel in 2009 and approximately $80 per barrel in 2010. During the last OPEC meeting, the ministers agreed to leave existing output targets unchanged in order to help economic recovery by avoiding further increases of oil prices during the economic recession. The decline in oil supply had an adverse effect on the demand for tankers and tanker charter rates. Consistent with this trend, the value of the tankers in our fleet has declined, resulting in the impairment loss recorded in 2009 of $116.6 million. 6 On December 12, 2008, our Board of Directors determined, after careful consideration of various factors, including the recent decline in charter rates and vessel values in the drybulk sector, to suspend the payment of cash dividends until such time as the Board of Directors shall determine in its discretion, in order to preserve capital. On January 9, 2009, we entered into an amendment to our Nordea credit facility that waived the December 9, 2008 breach of the collateral maintenance coverage ratio contained in such credit facility resulting from the decrease in the market value of our vessels and reducing the level of the collateral maintenance coverage ratio for the remaining term of the agreement. Please see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Long Term Debt Obligations and Credit Arrangements and Note 7 to our financial statements." On November 24, 2009, DVB consented to a reduction of the collateral maintenance coverage ratio to 125% for the period from November 24, 2009 to December 17, 2010 and the deposit of $2.5 million in the retention account that was blocked during the above period was classified in restricted cash in current assets in the 2009 consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2010 we were in compliance with the collateral maintenance ratio contained in our DVB credit facility. If the current low charter rates in the drybulk market continue through any significant period during which time charters for our vessels expire and we consequently become exposed to then-prevailing charter rates, our earnings may be adversely affected. If these trends continue, in order to remain viable, we may have to extend the period in which we suspend dividend payments or reinstate dividend payments at a reduced level (subject to restrictions in our credit facility, including a prohibition on dividend payments set forth in our amended Nordea credit facility, which matures in October 2015), sell vessels in our fleet and/or seek to raise additional capital in the equity markets. If we are able to sell additional shares at a time when the charter rates in the drybulk and tanker charter markets are low, such sales could be at prices below those at which shareholders had purchased their shares, which could, in turn, result in significant dilution of our then existing shareholders and affect our ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future and our earnings per share. During the period from February 6, 2009 to the termination of the Standby Equity Distribution Agreement on March 28, 2010, we issued a total of 53.3 million common shares pursuant to our Standby Equity Purchase Agreement ("SEPA") and Standby Equity Distribution Agreement ("SEDA"), with YA Global Master SPV Ltd., or YA Global, resulting in net proceeds of $208.1 million. Even if we are able to raise additional capital in the equity markets, there is no assurance we will be able to comply with our loan covenants. An over-supply of drybulk carrier and/or tanker capacity may lead to reductions in charterhire rates and profitability. The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing, and the number of drybulk carriers on order is near historic highs. These newbuildings were delivered in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2006 and continuing through 2010. As of December 31, 2010, newbuilding orders had been placed for an aggregate of approximately 51.9% of the existing global drybulk fleet in terms of deadweight tonnage, or dwt, with deliveries expected during the next 36 months. The market supply of tankers is affected by a number of factors such as demand for energy resources, oil, and petroleum products, as well as strong overall economic growth in part of the world economy, including Asia. As of December 31, 2010 newbuilding orders have been placed for an aggregate of approximately 27.6% of the existing global tanker fleet in terms of dwt, with deliveries expected during the next 36 months. An over-supply of drybulk carrier and/or tanker capacity may result in a reduction of charterhire rates. If such a reduction occurs, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels' current charters we may only be able to re-charter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all. Declines in charter rates and other market deterioration could cause us to incur impairment charges. We evaluate the carrying amounts of our vessels in order to determine if events have occurred that would require an impairment of their carrying amounts. The recoverable amount of vessels is reviewed based on events and changes in circumstances that would indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recovered. The review for potential impairment indicators and projection of future cash flows related to the vessels is complex and requires us to make various estimates including future freight rates, earnings from the vessels and discount rates. All of these items have been historically volatile. We evaluate an asset's recoverable amount as the sum of its future undiscounted cash flows generated through the asset's remaining useful life . If the recoverable amount is less than net book value of the vessel, the vessel is deemed to be impaired. The carrying values of our vessels may not represent their fair market value at any point in time because the new market prices of secondhand vessels tend to fluctuate with changes in charter rates and the cost of newbuildings. In the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, charter rates in the drybulk and tanker markets declined significantly and vessel values also declined. As a result, we recorded an impairment loss of $52.7 million that we recorded in 2009 due to the impairment of the M/T Pink Sands and the M/T Tamara. In addition, the decline resulted in a loss from sale of vessels or vessels held for sale we recorded in 2009 of $133.2 million, and a loss from sale of vessels or vessels held for sale in 2010 of $62.9 million, respectively. The losses in 2010 were recorded as a result of the sale of the M/V Pierre, M/T Tigani and M/T Pink Sands and the classification of the M/T Tamara, M/V Austin, M/V Trenton and M/V Augusta as vessels held for sale. The losses in 2009 were recorded as a result of the sale of the M/V Lansing, M/V Richmond and M/V Juneau and the classification of the M/V Pierre, M/T Olinda and M/T Tigani as vessels held for sale in 2009. Any additional impairment charges incurred as a result of further declines in charter rates could negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or the trading price of our common shares. 7 Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels or we may be required to write down their carrying value, which would adversely affect our earnings. The fair market value of our vessels may increase or decrease depending on the following factors: •general economic and market conditions affecting the international tanker and drybulk shipping industries; •prevailing level of charter rates; •competition from other shipping companies; •types, sizes and ages of vessels; •other modes of transportation; •cost of newbuildings; •price of steel; •governmental or other regulations; and •technological advances. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount in our financial statements in which case we will realize a loss. Vessel prices can fluctuate significantly, and in the case where the market value falls below the carrying amount we evaluate the asset for a potential impairment and may be required to write down the carrying amount of the vessel on our financial statements and incur a loss and a reduction in earnings, if the estimate of undiscounted cash flows, excluding interest charges, expected to be generated by the use of the asset is less than its carrying amount. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries that belong to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five year State Plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through State Plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a "market economy" and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform, the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to obtain financing, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Although the world economy is currently recovering from the second-worst downturn in the last 100 years, the future of this recovery still remains fragile. The effects of the downturn are still lingering as credit remains tight, demand for goods and services has not yet fully recovered and unemployment is high. The credit markets worldwide and in the United States have experienced significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States federal government, state governments and foreign governments have implemented a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. 8 Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The Commission, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. A number of financial institutions have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. The uncertainty surrounding the recovery of the credit markets in the United States and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide that is especially evident in our industry. Over the last few years, certain banking institutions have been forced to record heavy losses from troubled shipping loans. As of the date of this Annual Report, we had total outstanding indebtedness of $153.6 million under our existing credit facility. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in certain securities markets, among other factors. Major market disruptions and adverse changes in market conditions and the regulatory climate worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facility or any future financial arrangements. The current market conditions may last longer than we anticipate. These recent and developing economic and governmental factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, have caused the price of our common shares to decline and could cause the price of our common shares to decline further. The recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan may have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Japan is one of the world's leading importers of dry bulk commodities. The severe earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan on March 11, 2011 have caused an estimated $180 billion of damage and has threatened to send the Japanese economy into a recession. As of the date of this annual report, the extent to which the earthquake and tsunami and the pollution from the emitted radiation from the damaged nuclear reactors will affect the international economies and shipping industry is unclear. A prolonged recovery period with a relatively stagnant Japanese economy could decrease dry bulk imports to that country. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia extending throughout the Indian Ocean. Throughout 2008, 2009 and 2010, the frequency of piracy incidents against commercial shipping vessels increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Drybulk vessels and tankers are particularly vulnerable to such attacks. For example, on January 15, 2010, the M/V Samho Jewelry, a tanker vessel not affiliated with us, was seized by pirates while transporting chemicals 800 miles off the Somali coast. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized as "war risk" zones by insurers, as the Gulf of Aden has been since May 2008, or Joint War Committee (JWC) "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such insurance coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs related to the employment of onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability, of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to reinstate the payment of dividends. Fuel, or bunker prices, may adversely affect profits. While we generally do not bear the cost of fuel, or bunkers, under our time charters, fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability at the time of charter negotiation or when our vessels trade in the spot market. Fuel is also a significant, if not the largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are under voyage charter. Increases in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. 9 Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These requirements include, but are not limited to, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975, the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the U.S. Clean Air Act, the U.S. Clean Water Act and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. The 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico may also result in additional regulatory initiatives or statutes or changes to existing laws that may affect our operations or require us to incur additional expenses to comply with such regulatory initiatives, statutes or laws. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the IMO's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. As of the date of this Annual Report, each of our vessels is ISM code-certified. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be placed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be dry docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If a vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable, which will negatively impact our revenues and results from operations. Our vessels may suffer damage due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry and we may experience unexpected drydocking costs, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our vessels and their cargoes will be at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant drydocking facilities would decrease our earnings. 10 Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which would interrupt our business. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our business or require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted, which would have a negative effect on our cash flows. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another one of our ships. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future. We operate our vessels worldwide and as a result, our vessels are exposed to international risks which may reduce revenue and/or increase expenses. The international shipping industry is an inherently risky business involving global operations. Our vessels are at a risk of damage or loss because of events such as mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, cargo loss and bad weather. In addition, changing economic, regulatory and political conditions in some countries, including political and military conflicts, have from time to time resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways, piracy, terrorism, labor strikes and boycotts. These sorts of events could interfere with shipping routes and result in market disruptions, which may reduce our revenue and/or increase our expenses. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspections and related procedures in countries of origin and destination and at trans-shipment points. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of cargo and/or our vessels, delays in loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, available cash and ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future. If our vessels call on ports located in countries that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. or other governments, that could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our common stock. From time to time on charterers' instructions, our vessels may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act ("CISADA"), which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to non-U.S. companies, such as our company, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company. 11 Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries, even if we have not violated any laws. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. Political instability, terrorist attacks and international hostilities can affect the seaborne transportation industry, which could adversely affect our business. We conduct most of our operations outside of the United States, and our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future may be adversely affected by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where our vessels are employed or registered. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004, in London on July 7, 2005 and in Mumbai on November 26, 2008 and the continuing response of the world community to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to contribute to world economic instability and uncertainty in global financial markets. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States and globally and could result in an economic recession in the United States or worldwide. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Company Specific Risk Factors We may not be able to comply with the collateral maintenance coverage ratio covenants in our credit facility, which may affect our ability to conduct our business if we are unable to obtain waivers or covenant modifications from our lenders. Our credit facility with Nordea Bank Norge ASA, or Nordea, requires us to maintain a minimum ratio of the fair market value of our vessels mortgaged thereunder to our aggregate outstanding balance under the credit facility (please see Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources - Long-Term Debt Obligations and Credit Arrangements). The market value of drybulk and tanker vessels is sensitive to, among other things, changes in the drybulk and tanker charter markets, respectively, with vessel values deteriorating in times when drybulk and tanker charter rates, as applicable, are falling and improving when charter rates are anticipated to rise. The current decline in charter rates in the drybulk market coupled with the prevailing difficulty in obtaining financing for vessel purchases have adversely affected drybulk vessel values. The recent fall in oil prices has also led to lower tanker charter rates and tanker vessel values. These conditions have led to a significant decline in the fair market values of our vessels since December 31, 2008, particularly with respect to our drybulk carriers. On January 9, 2009, we entered into an amendatory agreement to our Nordea credit facility, or the Nordea Amendatory Agreement, which became effective on January 23, 2009. The Nordea Amendatory Agreement waives the breach of the collateral maintenance coverage ratio covenant contained in such credit facility resulting from the decrease in the market value of our vessels and reduces the level of the collateral maintenance coverage ratio to a level between 90% and 125% for the remaining term of the agreement, with such waiver taking effect from the date of prior breach to the effective date of the Nordea Amendatory Agreement. Although we are currently in compliance with the collateral maintenance coverage ratio covenants under our credit facility, in the future we may fall out of compliance if our vessel values experience further declines. If this were to occur, under the terms of our credit facility, our lenders could require us to post additional collateral or pay down our indebtedness to a level at which we are in compliance with our loan covenants and, if we are unable to post this collateral, make these prepayments or obtain a waiver, our lenders could accelerate our indebtedness, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. In such an event, our auditors may give either an unqualified opinion with an explanatory paragraph relating to the disclosure in the notes to our financial statements as to the substantial doubt of our ability to continue as a going concern, or a qualified, adverse or disclaimer of opinion, which could lead to additional defaults under our loan agreement. If the current low charter rates in the drybulk market and the tanker market and low vessel values continue or decrease further, our ability to comply with various other covenants in our loan agreement may be adversely affected. In such event, we may have to seek additional covenant modifications or waivers. Any default by or the failure of our charterers to honor their obligations to us under our charter agreements would reduce the likelihood that our lenders would be willing to provide waivers or covenant modifications or other accommodations. If our indebtedness is accelerated in full or in part, it would be very difficult in the current financing environment for us to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and we could lose our vessels if our lenders foreclose their liens. 12 Furthermore, as a result of the decline in our vessel values, we recorded an impairment loss of $52.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 (please see "Impairment on Vessels" in this Annual Report and "Impairment of Long-Lived Assets" in Note 2(l) to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 included herein) and if the current low charter rates in the drybulk market and the tanker market continue or decrease further, we may have to record further impairment adjustments to our financial statements which would adversely affect our financial results and further hinder our ability to raise capital. Also, because we sold certain of our vessels at prices lower than their book values, we incurred a loss of $133.2 million and $62.9 million in 2009 and 2010, respectively. If we find it necessary to sell additional vessels under the same circumstances, we will recognize losses and a reduction in our earnings which could affect our ability to raise additional capital that may be necessary to comply with our loan covenants. We depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We derive a significant part of our revenue from a small number of customers, with 55.0% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 generated from two charterers. Our fleet is currently employed under fixed rate period charter arrangements to three charterers. If one or more of these customers is unable to perform under one or more charters with us and we are not able to find a replacement charter, or if a customer exercises certain rights to terminate the charter, we could suffer a loss of revenues that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could lose a customer or the benefits of a time charter if, among other things: • the customer fails to make charter payments because of its financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise; • the customer terminates the charter because we fail to deliver the vessel within a fixed period of time, the vessel is lost or damaged beyond repair, there are serious deficiencies in the vessel or prolonged periods of off-hire, or if we are otherwise in default under the charter; or • the customer terminates the charter because the vessel has been subject to seizure for more than a specified number of days. If we lose a key customer, we may be unable to obtain charters on comparable terms or may become subject to the volatile spot market, which is highly competitive and subject to significant price fluctuations. The time charters on which we currently deploy six of the vessels in our fleet provide for charter rates that are significantly above current market rates, particularly spot market rates that most directly reflect the current depressed levels of the drybulk and tanker charter markets. If it were necessary to secure substitute employment, in the spot market or on time charters, for any of these vessels due to the loss of a customer in these market conditions, such employment would be at a significantly lower charter rate than the charter rate currently generated by such vessel, or we may be unable to secure a charter at all, in either case, resulting in a significant reduction in revenues. The loss of any of our customers, time charters or vessels, or a decline in payments under our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, if reinstated, in the future. For example, in January 2010, we terminated the time charter agreement for the M/V Pierre as a result of the charterer's insolvency and failure to perform, and rechartered the vessel with a new charterer at the same gross daily hire rate of $23,000. If we do not adequately manage the construction of our newbuilding vessels, the vessels may not be delivered on time or in compliance with their specifications. We have agreed to acquire five newbuilding vessels through wholly owned subsidiaries. We are obliged to supervise the construction of these vessels. If we are denied supervisory access to the construction of these vessels by the relevant shipyard or otherwise fail to adequately manage the shipbuilding process, the delivery of the vessels may be delayed or the vessels may not comply with their specifications, which could compromise their performance. Both delays in delivery and failure to meet specifications could result in lower revenues from the operations of the vessels, which could reduce our earnings. We do not have financing arranged to fully cover the remaining yard obligations due for the construction of our five newbuilding VLOCs. We own contracts for the construction of five newbuilding VLOCs scheduled to be delivered in the first, second, and third quarters of 2012, and the second and fourth quarters of 2013, respectively. As of March 31, 2011, $68.8 million was paid in yard installments for these hulls, which was partially financed by SEDA proceeds and an equity issuance in April 2011 of 35,657,142 of our common shares. The remaining yard obligations amount to $254.3 million as of the date of this report, of which $40.9 million, $148.1 million and $65.3 million are payable in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. We expect the remaining yard obligations to be financed by (1) a new facility with a major Chinese bank for which we have entered into a commitment letter but not yet entered into definitive documentation, which we expect will finance 60% of the cost of three of the VLOCs, (2) other forms of external financing; (3) equity offerings and (4) cash from operations. However, we have not yet obtained such financing. In the current challenging financing environment, it may be difficult to obtain secured debt to finance these purchases or raise debt or equity in the capital markets. If we fail to secure financing for the remaining payments due on these five newbuilding VLOCs, we could also lose our deposit money, which as of March 31, 2011 amounted to $68.8 million, and we may incur additional liability and costs. 13 The failure of our counterparties to meet their obligations under our time charter agreements could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. Six of our vessels are currently employed under time charters with two customers, with 55.0% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 generated from two customers chartering our drybulk carriers. The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a time charter agreement with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the drybulk shipping and tanker industries and the overall financial condition of the counterparty. In addition, in depressed market conditions, there have been reports of charterers renegotiating their charters or defaulting on their obligations under charters and our customers may fail to pay charterhire or attempt to renegotiate charter rates. For example, we agreed to reduce the contracted charter rate for one of our drybulk vessels, the M/V Augusta, from $42,100 per day to $16,000 per day upon its commencement in November 2008. The time charters on which we are currently deploying six of the vessels in our fleet provide for charter rates that are above current market rates. If our charterers fail to meet their obligations to us or attempt to renegotiate our charter agreements, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to pay dividends, if reinstated, in the future, and comply with covenants in our credit facility. For example, in January 2010, we terminated the time charter agreement for the M/V Pierre as a result of the charterer's insolvency and failure to perform, and rechartered the vessel with a new charterer at the same gross daily hire rate of $23,000. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely and the market price of our common shares may fluctuate in the future. We are currently not in compliance with the minimum bid price rule of the Nasdaq Global Market and therefore we may need to take further action in order to maintain our listing. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely since our initial public offering in April 2007 and may continue to do so as a result of many factors, including our actual results of operations and perceived prospects, the prospects of our competition and of the shipping industry in general and in particular the drybulk and tanker sectors, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts, changes in analysts' recommendations or projections, changes in general valuations for companies in the shipping industry, particularly the drybulk and tanker sectors, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Since January 12, 2009, the market price of our common shares has dropped below $5.00 per share, and the last reported closing price on The Nasdaq Global Market on April 13, 2011 was $0.59 per share. If the market price of our common shares remains below $5.00 per share, under stock exchange rules, our shareholders will not be able to use such shares as collateral for borrowing in margin accounts. This inability to continue to use our common shares as collateral may lead to sales of such shares, thereby creating downward pressure on and increased volatility in the market price of our common shares. In addition, under the rules of the Nasdaq Global Market, listed companies are required to maintain a share price of at least $1.00 per share and if the closing share price stays below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days, then the listed company would have a cure period of at least 180 days for the purpose of regaining compliance with the $1.00 per share minimum. On March 1, 2010 we received notice from the Nasdaq Global Market that we were not in compliance with the minimum bid price rule, and we carried out a 1-for-3 reverse stock split on June 17, 2010 in order to regain compliance with Nasdaq rules. Our stock price has again declined below $1.00 per share for a period of 30 consecutive business days, and on January 25, 2011, we received notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market that we were not in compliance with the minimum bid price rule and as a result, we are required to take action during the relevant cure period ending in July 2011, such as another reverse stock split, in order to comply with Nasdaq rules. We are considering various options that will enable us to regain compliance within the cure period. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels. Our strategy is to employ our vessels on fixed rate period charters, three of which are scheduled to expire in 2012 under the earliest re-delivery dates. Current charter rates have sharply declined from historically high levels and the charter market remains volatile. In the past, the charter rates for vessels have declined below the operating costs of vessels. If our vessels become available for employment in the spot market or under new period charters during periods when charter rates are at depressed levels, we may have to employ our vessels at depressed charter rates which would lead to reduced or volatile earnings. We cannot ensure that future charter rates will be at a level that will enable us to operate our vessels profitably or to reinstate dividend payments or repay our debt. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. 14 In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. As of the date of this Annual Report, our fleet has a weighted average age of 7.7 years. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to newer vessels' improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. We cannot ensure that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased drydocking costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. Even following a physical inspection of secondhand vessels prior to purchase, we do not have the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Accordingly, we may not discover defects or other problems with such vessels prior to purchase. Defects or problems discovered after purchase may be expensive to repair, and if not detected, may result in accidents or other incidents for which we may become liable to third parties. Generally, we do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. Increased drydocking costs or vessels off-hire may adversely affect our earnings. Unless we set aside reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement, at the end of a vessel's useful life our revenue will decline, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement we will be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their remaining useful lives, which we expect to range from 25 years to 30 years, depending on the type of vessel. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends, if reinstated, will be materially and adversely affected. Any reserves set aside for vessel replacement may not be available for dividends if reinstated in the future. Investors may experience significant dilution as a result of future offerings and issuances of shares. On July 24, 2009, we entered into the SEDA, which is described under Note 8(c) to our consolidated financial statements. The SEDA commenced on September 28, 2009 and was terminated on March 18, 2010. Under the SEDA we issued and sold an aggregate of 29,401,836 (88,208,508 before the reverse stock split) common shares with net proceeds of $98.2 million. On January 12, 2010, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form F-3, which was declared effective on January 21, 2010, pursuant to which we may sell up to $400 million of an undeterminable number of securities. No shares had been issued under this shelf registration statement as of the date of this Annual Report. On January 14, 2010, our Board of Directors adopted and approved the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan, under which 10,000,000 (30,000,000 before the reverse stock split) common shares were reserved for issuance. On January 18, 2010, our Board of Directors approved the award of 1,000,000 (3,000,000 before the reverse stock split) common shares to Steel Wheel Investments Limited, a company controlled by the Company's Chief Executive Officer and 66,667 (200,000 before the reverse stock split) common shares to the Company's Directors and officers. On December 17, 2010, our Board of Directors approved the award of 6,000,000 common shares to Steel Wheel Investments Limited, a company controlled by the Company's Chief Executive Officer. On May 25, 2010, our Board of Directors approved an equity infusion of $20 million by Basset Holdings Inc., or Basset, a company controlled by the Company's Chief Executive Officer, in order to fund the Company's capital needs for the purchase of M/V Montecristo. On May 28, 2010, Basset paid the amount of $20 million in exchange for approximately 16.7 million (50 million before the reverse stock split) of the Company's common shares at a price of $0.40 per share before the reverse stock split. On June 10, 2010, our stockholders approved a 3:1 reverse stock split, pursuant to which every three shares, of our common stock issued and outstanding, were converted into one share of common stock. The reverse stock split took effect as of the start of trading on the Nasdaq Global Market on June 17, 2010 and reduced the number of the then issued and outstanding common shares from 231,800,001 common shares to 77,266,655 common shares. Accordingly, all share and per share amounts in this report have been retroactively restated to reflect this change in capital structure. On April 1, 2011, we entered into two agreements to purchase two Capesize vessels under construction of 206,000 DWT each, through the acquisition of the shares of the relevant owning companies for a company ultimately controlled by the Company's Chief Executive Officer in exchange for an aggregate of 35,657,142 common shares of the Company. The vessels are scheduled to be delivered in the second and fourth quarter of 2013. The total outstanding yard payments amount to $96.24 million, of which $29.7 million is payable in 2012 and the balance is payable in 2013. 15 As our loan agreement contains provisions providing that a change-of-control will be deemed to have occurred if a person or entity, that was not a beneficial owner of our capital stock at the respective times of our entry into such agreements, becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 20% of the voting or ownership interest in the Company, such issuances of common shares could result in a change of control, thereby constituting an event of default under this loan agreement that entitles our lenders to declare all of our indebtedness thereunder immediately due and payable. Similar provisions may arise in our new loan agreement with a Chinese bank, to partially finance three VLOCs whose shipbuilding contracts we have acquired, once we enter into definitive documentation for such loan. In addition, we may have to attempt to sell additional shares in the future in order to satisfy our capital needs; however there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Lenders may be unwilling to provide future financing or will provide future financing at significantly increased rates. If we are able to sell shares in the future, the prices at which we sell these future shares will vary, and these variations may be significant. Our existing shareholders will experience significant dilution if we sell these future shares at prices significantly below the price at which previous shareholders invested. We intend to expand our operations into other sectors and own and operate a diversified fleet of vessels which will expose us to a greater number of risks. Our current fleet is comprised of six secondhand drybulk carriers that mainly transport iron ore, coal, grains and minerals, fertilizers and one secondhand tanker vessel that transports crude oil. We intend to grow our fleet and expand our operations into other sectors, as well. Operating a diversified fleet of vessels as opposed to a fleet concentrated in one sector of the seaborne transportation industry requires expertise in multiple sectors and the ability to avoid a greater variety of vessel management risks in order to maintain effective operations. Until June 15, 2010, Cardiff Marine Inc., or Cardiff, provided technical and commercial vessel management services for our fleet. Subsequent to June 15, 2010, the management of our fleet was contracted to TMS Dry Ltd and TMS Tankers Ltd. We refer to TMS Dry Ltd. and TMS Tankers Ltd as our Fleet Managers. We cannot ensure that we or our Fleet Managers will have the requisite expertise to address the greater variety of vessel management risks to which we expect to be exposed as we expand into other sectors. We are entirely dependent on our Fleet Managers to perform the day-to-day management of our fleet. Our executive management team consists of our Chief Executive Officer, our President and Chief Operating Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and our Chief Accounting Officer. As we subcontract the day-to-day vessel management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair to our Fleet Managers, we are dependent on our Fleet Managers and the loss of our Fleet Managers' services or failure to perform obligations to us could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Although we may have rights against our Fleet Managers if they default on their obligations to us, you will have no recourse directly against our Fleet Managers. Further, we expect that we will need to seek approval from our lenders to change our Fleet Managers. If our Fleet Managers suffer material damage to their reputation or relationships, such material damage may harm our ability to: • continue to operate our vessels and service our customers; • renew existing charters upon their expiration; • obtain new charters; • obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; • obtain insurance on commercially acceptable terms; • maintain satisfactory relationships with our customers and suppliers; and • successfully execute our growth strategy. Our Fleet Managers are privately held companies and there may be limited or no publicly available information about them. Our Fleet Managers are privately held companies. The ability of our Fleet Managers to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on their own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair our Fleet Managers' financial strength, and there may be limited publicly available information about their financial strength. As a result, an investor in our common shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting our Fleet Managers, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. 16 Our Fleet Managers may have conflicts of interest between us and other clients of our Fleet Managers. We have subcontracted the day-to-day technical and commercial management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance, supply provisioning and repair to our Fleet Managers. Our contracts with our Fleet Managers have an initial term of one year which will automatically extend for successive one year terms, unless, in each case, at least two months' advance notice of termination is given by either party. Our Fleet Managers will be providing similar services for vessels owned by other shipping companies including companies with which they are affiliated. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between our Fleet Managers' performance of their obligations to us, on the one hand, and our Fleet Managers' performance of their obligations to their other clients on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the crewing, supply provisioning and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus vessels owned by other clients of our Fleet Managers. In particular, our Fleet Managers may give preferential treatment to vessels owned by other clients whose arrangements provide for greater economic benefit to our Fleet Managers. These conflicts of interest may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Companies affiliated with our Fleet Managers own, and will acquire vessels that compete with our fleet. Our Fleet Managers provide commercial and technical management for the vessels in our fleet. Both companies are beneficially owned (a) 30% by a company the beneficial owner of which is Mrs. Chryssoula Kandylidis, the mother of the Company's Chief Executive Officer and (b) 70% by a foundation controlled by Mr. George Economou. Mrs. C. Kandylidis is also the sister of Mr. G. Economou and the wife of one of the Company's directors, Mr. Konstandinos Kandylidis. Our Fleet Managers currently manage 31 tankers and 27 drybulk carriers and supervise the construction of 16 crude oil tankers, and four drybulk carriers with scheduled delivery dates in 2011 and 2012 on behalf of companies controlled by members of the Economou family and the construction of four ultra deep water drilling rigs. Moreover, Mr. Economou, members of his family and companies affiliated with our Fleet Managers, own and will acquire additional vessels in the future. These vessels could be in competition with our fleet. Our Fleet Managers may be faced with conflicts of interest with respect to their interests and their obligations to us. In the highly competitive international shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargo by sea is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the drybulk shipping industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. We may be unable to effectively manage our growth. We intend to continue to grow our fleet. Our growth will depend on: • locating and acquiring suitable vessels; • identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; • our ability to generate excess cash flow so that we can invest without jeopardizing our ability to cover current and foreseeable working capital needs (including debt service); • obtaining required financing; • integrating any acquired business successfully with our existing operations; • enlarging our customer base; • hiring additional shore-based employees and seafarers; and • managing our expansion. 17 We intend to finance our growth with the net proceeds of future debt and equity offerings. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty in obtaining additional qualified personnel and managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. The expansion of our fleet may impose significant additional responsibilities on our management and staff, and the management and staff of our Fleet Manager, and may necessitate that we, and they, increase the number of personnel. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection therewith. If our Fleet Managers are unable to recruit suitable seafarers for our fleet or as we expand our fleet, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We rely on our Fleet Managers to recruit suitable senior officers and crews for our fleet. In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will have to rely on our Fleet Managers to recruit suitable additional seafarers. We cannot ensure that our Fleet Managers will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If our Fleet Managers' crewing agents encounter business or financial difficulties, they may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. The seafarers who are employed on the ships in our fleet are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements that set basic standards. We cannot ensure that these agreements will prevent labor interruptions. If our Fleet Managers are unable to recruit suitable seafarers as we expand our fleet, our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future may be materially adversely affected. Labor interruptions could disrupt our business. Our vessels are manned by masters, officers and crews that are employed by our shipowning subsidiaries. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out normally and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future. We may be unable to attract and retain key senior management personnel and other employees in the seaborne transportation industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends upon our ability to hire and retain key members of our senior management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future. We do not intend to maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers. The operation of drybulk carriers and tankers each involve certain unique operational risks. The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship can be a risk factor. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the drybulk carrier. Drybulk carriers damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to a breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of their holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the drybulk carrier's bulkheads leading to the loss of the drybulk carrier. The operation of tankers has unique operational risks associated with the transportation of oil. An oil spill may cause significant environmental damage, and a catastrophic spill could exceed the insurance coverage available. Compared to other types of vessels, tankers are exposed to a higher risk of damage and loss by fire, whether ignited by a terrorist attack, collision, or other cause, due to the high flammability and high volume of the oil transported in tankers. If we are unable to adequately maintain or safeguard our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses that may result from our operations due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry. We carry insurance to protect us against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business, including marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes pollution risks, crew insurance and war risk insurance. However, we may not be adequately insured to cover losses from our operational risks, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims and our insurance may be voidable by the insurers if we take, or fail to take, certain action, such as failing to maintain certification of our vessels with applicable maritime regulatory organizations. Any significant uninsured or under-insured loss or liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future. In addition, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates in the future during adverse insurance market conditions. 18 As a result of the September 11, 2001 attacks, the U.S. response to the attacks and related concern regarding terrorism, insurers have increased premiums and reduced or restricted coverage for losses caused by terrorist acts generally. Accordingly, premiums payable for terrorist coverage have increased substantially and the level of terrorist coverage has been significantly reduced. In addition, we may not carry loss-of-hire insurance, which covers the loss of revenue during extended vessel off-hire periods, such as those that occur during an unscheduled drydocking due to damage to the vessel from accidents. Accordingly, any loss of a vessel or extended vessel off-hire, due to an accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future. We may be subject to calls because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, in amounts based on our claim records and the claim records of our Fleet Managers as well as the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. In addition, our protection and indemnity associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends if reinstated in the future. Servicing our debt limits funds available for other purposes and if we cannot service our debt, we may lose our vessels. Borrowing under our credit facility requires us to dedicate a part of our cash flow from operations to paying interest on our indebtedness. These payments limit funds available for working capital and capital expenditures. We expect our earnings and cash flow to vary from year to year due to the cyclical nature of the drybulk carrier and tanker industries. If we do not generate or reserve enough cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: • seeking to raise additional capital; • refinancing or restructuring our debt; • selling vessels; or • reducing or delaying capital investments. However, these alternative financing plans, if necessary, may not be sufficient to allow us to meet our debt obligations. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or if some other default occurs under our credit facility, our lenders could elect to declare that debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against the collateral vessels securing that debt, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot ensure that we will be able to borrow amounts under our senior secured credit facility and restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility may impose financial and other restrictions on us. Our senior credit facility, as amended, imposes operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees; • create or permit liens on our assets; • sell our vessels or the capital stock of our subsidiaries; • make investments; • change the flag or classification society of our vessels; • reinstate the payment of dividends (as described under "Item 5 — Operating and Financial Review and Prospects-B, Liquidity and Capital Resources); 19 • make capital expenditures; • compete effectively to the extent our competitors are subject to less onerous financial restrictions; and • change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel. These restrictions could limit our ability to finance our operations or capital needs, make acquisitions or pursue available business opportunities. In addition, as discussed above, our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial covenants. We expect to be able to comply with all of these specified financial ratios and financial covenants. However, should our charter rates or vessel values further decline in the future due to any of the reasons discussed in the industry specific risk factors set forth above or otherwise, we may be required to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives to meet these ratios and satisfy these covenants. Events beyond our control, including changes in the economic and business conditions in the shipping markets in which we operate, may affect our ability to comply with these covenants. We cannot ensure that we will meet these ratios or satisfy these covenants or that our lenders will waive any failure to do so. A breach of any of the covenants in, or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios under, our senior secured credit facility would prevent us from borrowing additional money under our credit facility agreements and could result in a default under this agreement. If a default occurs under our credit facility agreement, the lenders could elect to declare the outstanding debt, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against the collateral securing that debt, which could constitute all or substantially all of our assets. Therefore, our discretion is limited because we may need to obtain consent from our lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders' consent when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be dependent on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources required to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing, whether at anticipated costs or at all may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy. We have entered into a commitment letter with a major Chinese bank, and the above considerations are expected to apply to our loan agreement with this lender upon our entry into definitive documentation. We cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any indebtedness incurred under our credit facility. We have partially financed the acquisition of our vessels with secured indebtedness drawn under our credit facility. We cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance amounts drawn under our credit facility at an interest rate or on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are not able to refinance these amounts with the net proceeds of debt and equity offerings at an interest rate or on terms acceptable to us or at all, we will have to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest of this indebtedness. If we are not able to satisfy these obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, any defaults by them, and the market value of our fleet, among other things, may materially affect our ability to obtain alternative financing. In addition, debt service payments under our credit facility or alternative financing may limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures, the payment of dividends and other purposes. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, or if we otherwise default under our credit facility or an alternative financing arrangement, our lenders could declare the debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on our fleet, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. We have entered into a commitment letter with a major Chinese bank, and the above considerations are expected to apply to our loan agreement with this lender upon our entry into definitive documentation. Trading and complementary hedging activities in Forward Freight Agreements (FFAs) subject us to trading risks, and we may suffer trading losses which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Due to drybulk shipping market volatility, success in this shipping industry requires constant adjustment of the balance between chartering-out vessels for long periods of time and trading them on a spot basis. A long term contract to charter a vessel might lock us into a profitable or unprofitable situation depending on the direction of freight rates over the term of the contract. From time to time and as our management sees fit, we may seek to manage and mitigate that risk through trading and complementary hedging activities in forward freight agreements, or FFAs. We are exposed to market risk in relation to our FFAs and could suffer losses from these activities in the event that our expectations are incorrect. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully protect ourselves from volatility in the shipping market at all times. We may not successfully mitigate our risks, leaving us exposed to unprofitable contracts, and may suffer trading losses resulting from these hedging activities. 20 The FFA market has experienced significant volatility in the past few years and, accordingly, recognition of the changes in the fair value of FFAs has caused, and could in the future cause, significant volatility in earnings. The derivative contracts into which we have entered to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates could result in higher than market interest rates and charges against our income. We have entered into two interest rate swaps for purposes of managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates applicable to indebtedness under our Nordea credit facility which was advanced at a floating rate based on LIBOR. Our hedging strategies, however, may not be effective and we may incur substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. Since our existing interest rate swaps do not, and future derivative contracts may not, qualify for treatment as hedges for accounting purposes we recognize fluctuations in the fair value of such contracts in our income statement. In addition, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected to the extent we do not hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations under our financing arrangements. Any hedging activities we engage in may not effectively manage our interest rate exposure or have the desired impact on our financial conditions or results of operations. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was at a loss position (liability) of $11.6 million (excluding accrued interest payable of $1.9 million). See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010. We may be subject to tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the "Code", 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering foreign corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source income and as such is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from United States federal income tax under Section 883 of the Code and regulations promulgated thereunder by the United States Department of the Treasury. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we intend to take this position for United States federal income tax return purposes for the 2010 taxable year. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source shipping income. For example, if shareholders each owning 5% or more of our common shares, or "5% Shareholders", together owned 50% or more of our outstanding common shares for more than half the days of a taxable year, then we would not be eligible for this statutory tax exemption unless we were able to establish that among our 5% Shareholders, there are sufficient 5% Shareholders that are qualified shareholders for purposes of Section 883 to preclude non-qualified 5% Shareholders from owning 50% or more of our common shares for more than half the number of days during the taxable year and we are able to satisfy certain substantiation requirements regarding the identity of our 5% Shareholders. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances on our future tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject during those years to a 4% United States federal income tax on U.S. source shipping income on a gross basis. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. United States tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company", which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, cash is treated as an asset that produces "passive income" and "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. On the other hand, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC may be subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. 21 We do not believe that we were a PFIC during the 2010 taxable year or that we will be a PFIC with respect to any future taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. There is substantial legal authority supporting this position consisting of case law and United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, it should be noted that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS or court of law were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders would face adverse U.S. federal tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse U.S. federal tax consequences for such shareholders), such shareholders would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the then highest rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our common shares. Please read "Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—United States Federal Income Tax Treatment of Common Shares — Passive Foreign Investment Company Status and Significant United States Federal Income Tax Consequences" for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. Obligations associated with being a public company require significant company resources and management attention. We completed our initial public offering in April 2007 and are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and the other rules and regulations of the SEC, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. We will continue to need to dedicate a significant amount of time and resources to ensure compliance with these regulatory requirements. We will continue to work with our legal, accounting and financial advisors to identify any areas in which changes should be made to our financial and management control systems to manage our growth and our obligations as a public company. We will evaluate areas such as corporate governance, corporate control, internal audit, disclosure controls and procedures as well as financial reporting and accounting systems. We will make changes in any of these and other areas, including our internal control over financial reporting, that we believe are necessary. However, these and other measures that we may take may not be sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely and reliable basis. In addition, compliance with reporting and other requirements applicable to public companies will create additional costs for us and will require the time and attention of management. Our limited management resources may exacerbate the difficulties in complying with these reporting and other requirements while focusing on executing our business strategy. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur, the timing of such costs or the degree of impact that our management's attention to these matters will have on our business. Because we generate all of our revenues in dollars but incur a significant portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in dollars but we incur a portion of our expenses in currencies other than the dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the dollar relative to the other currencies, particularly relative to the Euro. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the dollar falls in value can increase, thereby decreasing our revenues. Further declines in the value of the dollar could lead to higher expenses payable by us. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial obligations depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may not be able to satisfy our financial obligations. 22 There is no guarantee that there will continue to be an active and liquid public market for shareholders to resell our common stock in the future. The price of our common stock may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public • companies in our industry; • mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; • market conditions in segments of the shipping industry in which we operate; • changes in government regulation; • shortfalls in our operating results relative to levels forecast by securities analysts; • announcements concerning us or our competitors; and • the general state of the securities market. The drybulk and tanker industries have been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for our common stock may be equally volatile. Our Board of Directors has determined to suspend the payment of cash dividends as a result of market conditions in the international shipping industry and until such market conditions significantly improve, it is unlikely that we will reinstate the payment of dividends and if reinstated, it is likely that any dividend payments would be at reduced levels. We previously paid regular cash dividends on a quarterly basis from our operating surplus, in amounts substantially equal to our available cash from operations in the previous quarter, less any cash reserves for drydockings and working capital, as determined by our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors has determined to suspend the payment of cash dividends as a result of market conditions in the international shipping industry and in particular the sharp decline in charter rates and vessel values in the drybulk sector. Until such market conditions significantly improve, it is unlikely that we will reinstate the payment of dividends and if reinstated, it is likely that any dividend payments would be at reduced levels. Furthermore, the amendatory agreement to our Nordea credit facility, which matures in October 2015, prohibits us from paying dividends. As a result of deteriorating market conditions and restrictions imposed by our lenders, we will not reinstate the payment of dividends until our Nordea credit facility matures in October 2015 or the prohibition on our payment of dividends is removed from our amended Nordea credit facility agreement. If reinstated, any dividend payments would likely be at reduced levels. Future sales of shares by our major shareholder could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Companies controlled by Mr. Antonis Kandylidis, beneficially own an aggregate of 60,017,141 common shares, which represent approximately 50.5% of our outstanding common shares as of the date of this Annual Report. These common shares may be sold in registered transactions and may also be resold subject to the holding period, volume, manner of sale and notice requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Sales or the possibility of sales of substantial amounts of our common shares by these shareholders in the public markets could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law and as a result, shareholders may have fewer rights and protections under Marshall Islands law than under a typical jurisdiction in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and by-laws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. 23 It may not be possible for investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We and all of our subsidiaries are incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. and substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the U.S. In addition, most of our directors and officers are non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our subsidiaries or our directors and officers or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our shareholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Several provisions of our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorizing our board of directors to issue ''blank check'' preferred stock without shareholder approval; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of a two-thirds majority of the outstanding shares of our common and subordinated shares, voting as a single class, entitled to vote for the directors; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; • establishing advance notice requirements for election to our board of directors or proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings; and • limiting our ability to enter into business combination transactions with certain shareholders. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan or "poison pill." These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. 