Item 1A. Risk Factors. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report includes statements of our expectations, intentions, plans and beliefs that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are intended to come within the safe harbor protection provided by those sections. These statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, relate to matters such as sales growth, comparable store net sales, impact of cannibalization, price changes, earnings performance, stock-based compensation expense, margins, return on invested capital, strategic direction, the demand for our products and store openings. We have used words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “thinks,” “estimates,” “seeks,” “expects,” “predicts,” “could,” “projects,” “potential” and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, in this report to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made based on expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties, risks and factors relating to our operations and business environments, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and other factors include those listed in this Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” and elsewhere in this report. When considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the cautionary statements in this report and the documents incorporated by reference. New risks and uncertainties arise from time to time, and we cannot predict those events or how they may affect us. There may also be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report that could cause results to differ materially from our expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we assume no obligation to update them after the date of this report as a result of new information, future events or subsequent developments, except as required by the federal securities laws. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The hardwood flooring industry depends on the economy, home remodeling activity, the homebuilding industry and other important factors. The hardwood flooring industry is highly dependent on the remodeling of existing homes and new home construction. In turn, remodeling and new home construction depend on a number of factors which are beyond our control, including interest rates, tax policy, employment levels, consumer confidence, credit availability, real estate prices, demographic trends, weather conditions, natural disasters and general economic conditions. If: • the national economy or any regional or local economy where we operate weakens; • interest rates rise; • credit becomes less available; • regions where we operate experience unfavorable demographic trends; • fuel costs or utility expenses increase; or • home-price appreciation slows; that could limit discretionary consumer spending, reduce spending on remodeling of existing homes and cause purchases of new homes to decline. For example, although our net sales increased during 2006 and 2007, Catalina Research estimates that sales of hardwood flooring declined 5.0% in comparing 2007 to 2006, following a decline of 4.2% in comparing 2006 to 2005. Any one or a combination of these factors could result in decreased demand for hard surface flooring, including in particular premium hardwood flooring, in remodeled and new homes, which would harm our business and operating results. 15 Table of Contents The planned rapid increase in the number of our stores may make our future results unpredictable. As of December 31, 2007, we had 116 stores throughout the United States, 60 of which we opened after January 1, 2005. We plan to open between 30 and 40 new stores during each of the next several years. This growth strategy and the investment associated with the development of each new store may cause our operating results to fluctuate and be unpredictable or decrease our profits. Our future results will depend on various factors, including the successful selection of new markets and store locations, our ability to negotiate leases on acceptable terms, management of pre-opening expenses, the quality of our operations, consumer recognition of the quality of our products, our ability to meet customer demand, the continued popularity of hardwood flooring and general economic conditions. In addition, as we open more stores, our rate of expansion relative to the size of our store base will decline. We may not be able to identify suitable store locations in markets into which we seek to expand and may not be able to open as many stores as planned. Consumers in a new market may be less familiar with our brands, and we may need to increase brand awareness in that market through additional investments in advertising. Stores opened in new markets may have higher construction, occupancy or operating costs, or may have lower average store net sales, than stores opened in the past. In addition, we may incur higher maintenance costs associated with our strategy of seeking out low-cost store locations than in the past. Newly opened stores may not succeed or may reach profitability more slowly than we expect, and the ramp-up to profitability may become longer in the future as we enter more mid-sized and smaller markets and add stores to larger markets where we already have a presence. Future markets and stores may not be successful and, even if we are successful, our average store net sales and our comparable store net sales may not increase at historical rates. Failure to manage our growth effectively could harm our business and operating results. Our plans call for a significant number of new stores, and increased orders from our website, call center and catalog. Our existing management information systems, including our store management systems and financial and management controls, may be unable to support our expansion. Managing our growth effectively will require us to continue to enhance these systems, procedures and controls and to hire, train and retain regional managers, store managers and store staff. In addition, we have hired a number of senior managers in 2006 and 2007, and execution of our strategy requires that they be integrated effectively. We may not respond quickly enough to the changing demands that our expansion will impose on our management, staff and existing infrastructure. Any failure to manage our growth effectively could harm our business and operating results. Our ability to produce hardwood flooring, particularly products made of more exotic species, depends on the continued availability of sufficient suitable hardwood. Our business strategy depends on offering a wide assortment of hardwood flooring to our customers. We sell flooring made from species ranging from domestic maple, oak and pine to imported cherry, ebony, mahogany and teak. Some of these species are scarce, and we cannot be assured of their continued availability, especially of exotic hardwoods that comprise a significant portion of our more profitable products. Our ability to obtain an adequate volume and quality of hard-to-find species depends on our suppliers’ ability to furnish those species, which, in turn, could be affected by many things including events such as forest fires, insect infestation, tree diseases, prolonged drought and other adverse weather conditions. Government regulations relating to forest management practices also affect our suppliers’ ability to harvest or export timber, and changes to regulations and forest management policies, or the implementation of new laws or regulations, could impede their ability to do so. If our suppliers cannot deliver sufficient hardwood and we cannot find replacement suppliers, we would need to curtail finishing of the relevant product lines, which could cause our operating results to deteriorate. Our dependence on certain suppliers makes us vulnerable to the extent we rely on them. We rely on a concentrated number of suppliers for the majority of our supply needs. In 2007, one of our suppliers, Sequoia Floorings, accounted for approximately 22% of our purchases, and acted as an agent for another of our suppliers which accounted for another 3% of our purchases. Including those companies, our top 10 16 Table of Contents suppliers account for approximately 66% of our purchases in 2007. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers, and we typically obtain our hardwood supplies on an order-by-order basis, writing orders for future deliveries from 90 to 180 days before delivery. Our suppliers may be unable to supply us in the future due to various factors, which could include political instability in the supplier’s country, a supplier’s financial instability, inability or refusal to comply with applicable laws, trade restrictions or tariffs, insufficient transport capacity and other factors beyond our control. If we can no longer obtain merchandise from our major suppliers, or they refuse to continue to supply us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and we cannot find replacement suppliers, we could experience a deterioration in our net sales and operating results. If we fail to identify and develop relationships with a sufficient number of qualified mills, our ability to obtain hardwood products that meet our high quality standards could be harmed. We purchase flooring directly from mills located around the world. We believe that these direct supplier relationships are relatively unique in our industry. In order to retain the competitive advantage that we believe results from these relationships, we need to continue to identify, develop and maintain relationships with qualified mills that can satisfy our high standards for quality and our requirements for hardwood in a timely and efficient manner. The need to develop new relationships will be particularly important as we seek to expand our operations in the future. Any inability to do so could reduce our competitiveness, slow our plans for further expansion and cause our sales and operating results to deteriorate. Our ability to obtain hardwood from abroad and the operations of many of our international suppliers are subject to risks that are beyond our control and that could harm our operations. We rely on a select group of international suppliers to provide us with hardwood products that meet our specifications. In 2007, approximately 38% of our product was sourced from Asia, approximately 18% was sourced from South America and approximately 9% was sourced from other locations outside of North America. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with obtaining products from abroad, including: • political unrest, terrorism and economic instability resulting in the disruption of trade from foreign countries where our products originate; • currency exchange fluctuations; • the imposition of new laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental matters; imports, duties, taxes and other charges on exports or imports; labor conditions; quality and safety standards; trade restrictions; and restrictions on funds transfers; • disruptions or delays in shipments; and • changes in local economic conditions in countries where our suppliers are located. These and other factors beyond our control could disrupt the ability of our suppliers to ship certain products to us cost-effectively or at all, which could harm our operations. Increased hardwood costs could harm our results of operations. The cost of the various species of hardwood that we use in our products is important to our profitability. Hardwood lumber costs fluctuate because of changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, product availability, environmental restrictions, government regulation and trade policies, weather conditions, processing and freight costs and delivery delays. We generally do not have long-term supply contracts or guaranteed purchase amounts. As a result, we may not be able to anticipate or react to changing hardwood costs by adjusting our purchasing practices, and we may not always be able to increase the selling prices of our products in response to increases in supply costs. If we cannot address changing hardwood costs appropriately, it could cause our operating results to deteriorate. 17 Table of Contents Increased delivery costs, particularly those relating to the cost of fuel, could harm our results of operations. We source merchandise from around the world, and our cost of sales includes the cost of delivery to our Toano facility. In addition, we rely on third-party trucking companies to transport our products from our Toano facility to our stores and from our stores to our customers. If the cost of fuel or other costs, such as import tariffs, rise, it could result in increases in our cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses due to additional delivery charges and in the fees transportation companies charge us to transport our products to our stores and customers. We may be unable to increase the price of our products to offset increased delivery charges, which could cause our operating results to deteriorate. If our management information systems experience disruptions, it could disrupt our business and reduce our sales. We depend on our management information systems to integrate the activities of our stores, website and call center, to process orders, to respond to customer inquiries, to manage inventory, to purchase merchandise and to sell and ship goods on a timely basis. Our high growth rate creates additional challenges in maintaining and expanding our systems. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer “hackers” or other causes. We have identified improvements that we need to make to our internal controls that relate to limiting access to our information systems, which we expect to implement over the next eight months. Any significant disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by our failure to successfully upgrade our systems, could cause information, including data related to customer orders, to be lost or delayed, which could result in delays in the delivery of products to our stores and customers or lost sales. In the first quarter of 2007, we upgraded our entire corporate network, including our telephone lines, to an Internet-based network. If our network is disrupted, we may experience delayed communications within our operations and between our customers and ourselves, and may not be able to communicate at all via our network, including via telephones connected to our network. In the first half of 2008, we plan to introduce a new point-of-sale system to improve the tracking of inventory and sales information in all of our stores. If the introduction of this system interferes with our existing system, we could experience disruptions in our ability to stock our stores and fulfill customer orders in a timely manner. We may in the future be unable to develop or acquire technology that meets our needs or those of our customers, or have insufficient resources to make necessary investments in technology. Accordingly, if our information systems are inadequate to handle our growth or if changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, it could disrupt or otherwise harm our operations. Any disruption of our website or our call center could disrupt our business and lead to reduced sales and reputational damage. Our website and our call center are integral parts of our integrated multi-channel strategy. Customers use our website and our call center as information sources on the range of products available to them and to order our products, samples or catalogs. Our website in particular is vulnerable to certain risks and uncertainties associated with the Internet, including changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime and other technical failures, security breaches and consumer privacy concerns. If we cannot successfully maintain our website and call center in good working order, it could reduce our sales and damage our reputation. Our success depends substantially upon the continued retention of certain key personnel. We believe that our success has depended and continues to depend to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and our board of directors. Our failure to retain members of that team 18 Table of Contents could impede our ability to build on the efforts they have undertaken with respect to our business. Specifically, the loss of Tom Sullivan, our founder (or “Founder”) and the chairman of our board of directors, could harm us. Under his guidance, we experienced rapid growth and established ourselves as a leading company in the industry. Tom continues to have an active role in determining our strategic direction and assisting with our day-to-day operations, and we believe that if we no longer had access to his product knowledge and relationships with our suppliers, it would eliminate an important competitive advantage. In addition, the loss of Jeff Griffiths, our president and chief executive officer, or Dan Terrell, our chief financial officer, could harm us, as we rely on their significant experience with reporting companies and the retail industry. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified managers and staff. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managers and staff. Buying hardwood flooring is an infrequent event, and typical consumers have very little knowledge of the range, characteristics and suitability of the products available to them before starting the purchasing process. Therefore, consumers in the hardwood flooring market expect to have sales associates serving them who are knowledgeable about the entire assortment of products offered by the retailer and the process of choosing and installing hardwood flooring. As a result, competition for qualified store managers and sales associates among flooring retailers is intense. We may not succeed in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to conduct our current operations and support our potential future growth. In addition, as we expand into new markets, we may find it more difficult to hire, motivate and retain qualified employees. Increased competition could cause price declines, decrease demand for our products and decrease our market share. We operate in the hardwood flooring industry, which is highly fragmented and competitive. We face significant competition from multinational home improvement chains, national and regional flooring specialty chains, Internet-based companies and privately-owned single-site enterprises. We compete on the basis of price, customer service, store location and range, quality and availability of hardwood flooring we offer our customers. Our competitive position is also influenced by the availability, quality and cost of merchandise, labor costs, finishing, distribution and sales efficiencies and our productivity compared to that of our competitors. As we expand into new and unfamiliar markets, we may experience different competitive conditions than in the past. Some of our competitors are larger organizations, have existed longer, are more diversified in the products they offer and have a more established market presence with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we have. In addition, our competitors may forecast market developments more accurately than we do, develop products that are superior to ours or produce similar products at a lower cost, or adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements than we do. Intense competitive pressures from one or more of our competitors could cause price declines, decrease demand for our products and decrease our market share. Hardwood flooring may become less popular as compared to other types of floor coverings in the future. For example, our products are made using various hardwood species, including rare exotic hardwood species harvested from rainforests, and concern over the environmental impact of tree harvesting could shift consumer preference towards synthetic or inorganic flooring. In addition, hardwood flooring competes against carpet, vinyl sheet, vinyl tile, ceramic tile, natural stone and other types of floor coverings. If consumer preferences shift towards types of floor coverings other than hardwood flooring, we may experience decreased demand for our products. All of these competitive factors may harm us and reduce our sales and profits. 19 Table of Contents Damage, destruction or disruption of our Toano facility could significantly impede our ability to finish and distribute our products. We currently finish approximately 70% of all Bellawood products at our Toano facility. In 2007, Bellawood flooring accounted for approximately one-third of our net sales. We also finish small quantities of certain of our other products there. In addition, the Toano facility serves as our distribution center, and approximately 85% of our merchandise passes through this facility before we move it to our stores. The Toano facility also houses our primary computer systems, which control our management information and inventory management systems, and our corporate headquarters. We do not have any other finishing or distribution facilities. If the Toano facility or our inventory held there were damaged or destroyed by fire, wood infestation or other causes, our entire finishing and distribution processes would be disrupted, which could cause significant lost production and delays in delivery. This could impede our ability to stock our stores and deliver products to our customers, and cause our sales and operating results to deteriorate. Failure to maintain relevant product endorsement agreements and product placement arrangements could harm our reputation and cause our sales to deteriorate. We have established relationships with well-known and respected home improvement celebrities to evaluate, promote and help establish with consumers the high-quality nature of our products. If these individuals were to stop promoting our products, if we were unable to renew our endorsement contracts with them or if we could not find other endorsers of a similar caliber, our sales and reputation could be harmed. Similarly, any actions that persons endorsing our products may take, whether or not associated with our products, which harm their or our reputations could also harm our brand image with consumers and our reputation, and cause our sales to deteriorate. We also have a number of product placement arrangements with home improvement-related television shows. We rely on these arrangements to increase awareness of our brands, and to enable potential customers to see both what our flooring will look like after installation and the relative ease with which it can be installed. Any failure to continue these arrangements could cause our brands to become less well-known and cause our sales to deteriorate. Our success depends on the continued effectiveness of our advertising strategy. We believe that our past success was achieved in part through our successful investment in local and national advertising. We typically locate our stores in industrial or commercial areas that have lower rents than traditional retail locations, but that are generally set some distance from population centers and downtown urban areas. To support this real estate strategy, we have used extensive advertising to encourage customers to drive to our stores. We may need to increase our advertising expense to support our business strategy in the future. In addition, we lease but do not own the rights to 1-800-FLOORING. Although we have an indefinite renewal right under the related contract, it could be terminated in certain circumstances, which could increase our costs until we were able to publicize a new toll-free number. If our advertisements fail to draw customers in the future, or if the cost of advertising or other marketing materials increases significantly, we could experience declines in our sales and operating results. We have entered into a number of lease agreements with companies controlled by our controlling stockholder, which may make it more difficult to modify or terminate those leases. We have entered into several agreements with related parties in connection with a significant number of transactions, including leases for our Toano facility, which includes a store location, and 25 of our other store locations as of December 31, 2007. Tom Sullivan is the sole owner of ANO LLC, with which we have in the past entered into most such agreements. In addition, Tom is the sole owner of Wood on Wood Road, Inc., and he has a 50% membership interest in BMT Holdings, LLC, and we lease one store location from each of these entities. While we believe that these leases we have signed to date are on fair market terms, it may be more difficult for us to modify or terminate those leases in the future, or we may be prevented from doing so by the actions of Tom, who is a significant stockholder. 20 Table of Contents We may incur non-cash compensation expenses in connection with an existing stock-based compensation agreement. We are party to a stock-based agreement between Tom and his brother, Kevin Sullivan, a regional manager, accounted for as a variable performance plan (the “Variable Plan”). The Variable Plan was established in 1998 and modified in August 2005. The Variable Plan awarded Kevin the right (the “Variable Right”) to an ownership percentage of our common stock. The percentage was defined as a fixed percentage of 2.5% of our common stock on a fully diluted basis, as defined in the agreement, plus an additional percentage based on certain performance criteria, primarily a comparison of the net income of the region under Kevin’s management to our total net income on a trailing twelve-month basis. Under the Variable Plan agreement, we were required to determine the number of shares of common stock exercisable under the Variable Right at vesting. The common stock earned under the Variable Right would be contributed by Tom, and 1.5 million shares of our common stock were placed in escrow by Tom, representing the maximum amount of shares Tom and Kevin believed would be earned under the Variable Right. The Variable Right fully vested and became exercisable in connection with the initial public offering (or “IPO”), and all cash settlement provisions via put-call rights terminated. In accordance with the terms of the Variable Plan, we calculated that 853,853 shares of our common stock had vested and were exercisable under the Variable Right (the “Vested Shares”). Cumulative stock-based compensation expense related to the Variable Plan was calculated utilizing that share count and the $11 per share IPO price to adjust the liability on our balance sheet under the line item “Stock Compensation Liability” to $9.4 million representing $0.3 million of 2007 stock-based compensation expense. The Stock Compensation Liability was reclassified to the line item “Additional Capital” on our balance sheet in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123(R)”). Kevin filed for arbitration on December 7, 2007 disputing our share count calculation. Total stock-based compensation expense related to the Variable Plan was $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, which included our best estimate of the ultimate value of incremental shares (above the Vested Shares) that may be delivered to Kevin via settlement or arbitration. As the ultimate value that may be delivered to Kevin is not certain, we may be required to adjust stock-based compensation expense in 2008. In addition, on March 11, 2008, we received a copy of a complaint that Kevin purportedly sent to the Fair Labor Division of the Office of the Attorney General of Massachusetts, which alleges that the Founder and we have unlawfully withheld wages from Kevin by not releasing to him a specified portion of the escrowed shares of common stock. We are not a party to the escrow arrangement between the Founder and Kevin. Kevin is seeking a prompt release of those shares, together with certain additional damages that could potentially be subject to trebling under relevant law. At this time, it is not possible for us to determine the ultimate resolution of, or reasonably estimate any potential liability from, this matter, and no provision for losses has been provided in connection with this complaint. We intend to defend this matter vigorously. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and harm our business. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully depends in part on our ability to further build brand recognition using our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logo and the names of our brands. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are inadequate, or if any third party infringes on or misappropriates our intellectual property, either in print or on the Internet, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could adversely affect our business and might prevent our brands from achieving or maintaining market acceptance. We may also encounter claims from prior users of similar intellectual property in locales where we operate or intend to operate. This could harm our image, brand or competitive position and cause us to incur significant penalties and costs. 21 Table of Contents Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could increase the cost of doing business or restrict our ability to conduct our business. We are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations imposed by federal, state and local authorities, including those governing the use, storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release, discharge and disposal of certain hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater and the health and safety of employees. If we are unable to extend or renew a material approval, license or permit required by such laws, or if there is a delay in renewing any material approval, license or permit, that may cause our sales and operating results to deteriorate or otherwise harm our business. We are incurring increased costs and risks associated with complying with corporate governance and disclosure standards. We completed our initial public offering in November 2007. We have spent and continue to spend a significant amount of management time and external resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules of the SEC and New York Stock Exchange. Complying with those requirements will likely increase our costs and make some activities more time-consuming. A number of the requirements will require us to carry out activities we have not previously undertaken. If we identify any issues in complying with those requirements (for example, if a material weakness was identified in our internal control over financial reporting), we could also incur additional costs rectifying those issues, and their existence could impact our reputation or investor perceptions of us or otherwise harm our business. We are currently not aware of any material weaknesses in our internal controls or disclosure controls. In addition, we expect that it will be difficult and expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Advocacy efforts by stockholders and third parties may also prompt even more changes in governance and reporting requirements. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Tom Sullivan and TA Associates, a private investment company, have the ability to exercise significant influence over us and their interests in our business may be different than yours. At December 31, 2007, Tom controlled approximately 37%, and certain funds managed by TA Associates, Inc., a private equity investment firm (such funds and firm collectively, “TA Associates”), controlled approximately 22%, of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, each of these parties will be able to exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs and all matters requiring a stockholders’ vote, including the composition of our board of directors, the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership could also delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without their support. These interests of these stockholders may conflict with yours, and they may seek to cause us to take courses of action that, in their judgment, could enhance their investment in us, but which might involve risks to holders of our common stock or be harmful to our business or other investors. Our anti-takeover defense provisions may cause our common stock to trade at market prices lower than it might absent such provisions. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain several provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include a staggered board, the availability of “blank check” preferred stock, provisions restricting stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders or requiring one to be called or from taking action by written consent and provisions that set forth advance notice procedures for stockholders’ nominations of directors and proposals of topics for consideration at meetings of stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation also 22 Table of Contents provides that Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which relates to business combinations with interested stockholders, applies to us. These provisions may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. In addition, these provisions may cause our common stock to trade at a market price lower than it might absent such provisions. Our common stock price may be volatile and you may lose all or part of your investment. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly. Those fluctuations could be based on various factors in addition to those otherwise described in this report, including: • our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who follow Lumber Liquidators or other companies in our industry; • variations in general economic conditions; • actions of our current stockholders, including sales of common stock by our directors and executive officers; • the arrival or departure of key personnel; and • other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies but may cause declines in the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company or its performance. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could harm the market price of our common stock and could materially impair our ability to raise capital in the future through offerings of our common stock. We, our executive officers and directors and TA Associates have agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to dispose of or hedge any common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of common stock until May 8, 2008, except, in our case, for the issuance of common stock upon exercise of options outstanding under existing option plans. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated may, in their sole discretion, release any of these shares from these restrictions at any time without notice. As of May 8, 2008, all of our shares of common stock outstanding may be sold in the public market by existing stockholders, subject to applicable volume and other limitations imposed under federal securities laws. By letter dated February 20, 2008, Kevin Sullivan provided notice to us that he considered the lock-up agreement that he signed to be null and void. He has asserted that because his lock-up agreement is not identical to the lock-up agreement signed by Tom Sullivan, which he has alleged was required by the Variable Plan agreement, he is not bound by its terms. To date, however, none of the shares put into escrow by Tom in connection with the Variable Plan have been transferred to Kevin. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. 23 Table of Contents 