ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We face significant competition, which could reduce our share of the market for home appliances and consumer electronics and our net sales. Competition could also cause us to increase expenditures, cause us to reduce our prices or margins and impact our comparable store sales. The retail market for major home appliances and consumer electronics is intensely competitive. We currently compete against a diverse group of national retailers, including Best Buy, Circuit City, Sears, Lowe’s and Home Depot, locally-owned regional or independent specialty retail stores and mass merchandisers that sell many of the same or similar consumer electronics and major home appliances. There are few barriers to entry and as a result new competitors may enter our existing or new markets at any time. We may not be able to compete successfully against existing and future competitors. Some of our competitors have financial resources that are substantially greater than ours and may be able to purchase inventory at lower prices. Our competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and may have greater resources to devote to discounts, promotions and sales of products and services. They may also have financial resources that enable them to weather economic downturns better than us. Our existing competitors or new entrants into our industry may use a number of different strategies to compete against us, including: • lower pricing; • more aggressive advertising and marketing; • enhanced product and service offerings; • extension of credit to customers on terms more favorable than we make available; • innovative store formats; • improved retail sales methods; and • expansion by our existing competitors or entry by new competitors into markets where we currently operate. Competition could cause us to lose market share, net sales and customers, increase expenditures or reduce prices or margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, competition could have an impact on our comparable store sales. Our business is dependent on the general economic conditions in our markets. In general, our sales depend on discretionary spending by our customers. A deterioration of economic conditions or an economic downturn in any of our major markets or in general could result in declines in sales and impair our growth. General economic conditions and other factors that affect discretionary spending in the regions in which we operate are beyond our control and are affected by: • interest rates and inflation; • an economic recession; • natural disasters; • national and international security concerns; • consumer credit availability; • consumer debt levels; • consumer confidence in the economy; 12 Table of Contents • gasoline and fuel prices; • tax rates and tax policy; • unemployment trends; and • other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Increasing volatility in financial markets may cause some of the above factors to change with an even greater degree of frequency and magnitude. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to open and profitably operate new stores in existing and new geographic markets. If we fail to successfully manage the challenges our planned growth poses, fail to maintain our financial and internal controls and systems or encounter unexpected difficulties during our expansion, our net sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. New stores that we open may not be profitable or may take longer than anticipated to open or to reach desired levels of profitability. Furthermore, the addition of new stores in existing markets may adversely affect the performance of nearby stores. Collectively, these circumstances could lower our profit, operating income and profit margins. There are a number of factors that could affect our ability to open or acquire as well as operate new stores at profitable levels consistent with our existing stores, including: • competitors, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns in adjacent and new markets that are different from those in our existing markets; • the failure to open enough stores in new markets to achieve a sufficient market presence to compete successfully; • the inability to identify and acquire suitable store sites and to negotiate acceptable leases for these sites; • difficulties associated with the hiring, training and retention of additional sales personnel and store managers; • the inability to obtain government approvals, licenses and permits in a timely manner; • the failure to adequately supervise construction and manage development costs; • the inability to secure adequate landlord financing; • difficulties or delay in obtaining construction materials and labor; and • problems or delays in pre-opening store promotion and related publicity. In addition, our growth plans will require management to expend significant time, effort and resources to ensure the continuing adequacy of our financial and other internal controls, operating procedures, information systems, product purchasing, inventory management, warehousing and distribution systems and employee training programs. We may not be able to effectively manage these increased demands or respond on a timely basis to the changing demands that our planned expansion will impose on our management, financial and other internal controls and information systems. If we fail to successfully manage the challenges our planned growth poses, fail to improve these systems and controls or encounter unexpected difficulties during our expansion, our net sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. A disruption in our relationships with, or in the operations of, any of our key suppliers could cause our net sales and profitability to decline. The success of our business and our growth strategy depends to a significant degree on our relationships with our suppliers. Our largest suppliers include Frigidaire, GE, JVC, LG, Panasonic, Samsung, Sharp, Sony, Toshiba and Whirlpool. We do not have long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with our major 13 Table of Contents suppliers. We typically order our inventory through the issuance of individual purchase orders to vendors. We have no contractual assurance of the continued supply of merchandise in the amount and assortment we currently offer our customers and we may be subject to rationing by suppliers. In addition, we rely heavily on a relatively small number of suppliers. Our top 10 and 20 suppliers represented 80.3% and 90.4%, respectively, of our purchases in fiscal 2008. The loss of any one or more of our key vendors or our failure to establish and maintain relationships with these and other vendors could materially adversely affect our supply and assortment of products, as we may not be able to find suitable replacements to supply products at competitive prices. If we fail to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, our net sales and profitability may decline. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. Our ability to maintain and increase revenues depends to a large extent on the periodic introduction and availability of new products and technologies. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to trends in consumer preferences relating to major household appliances and consumer electronics such as high efficiency appliances and high definition televisions. These products are subject to significant technological changes and pricing limitations and are subject to the actions and cooperation of third parties, such as movie distributors and television and radio broadcasters, all of which could affect the success of these and other new consumer electronics technologies. It is possible that new products will never achieve widespread consumer acceptance. Our margins are enhanced due to our ability to sell up in the product life cycle, thus a lack of new products in the market would impair our ability to maintain gross margins as a percentage of sales. Significant deviations from the anticipated consumer preferences for the products we sell could result in lost sales and lower margins due to the need to mark down excess inventory. If we are unable to effectively introduce and sell new products to our customers, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we cannot attract and retain highly qualified sales personnel and store managers, our level of customer service may decline, which may decrease our net sales and profitability. A key element of our competitive strategy is to provide product expertise to our customers through our extensively trained, commissioned sales associates which, we believe, results in more of our customers purchasing higher-margin, feature-rich products. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel as needed in the future, including qualified sales personnel and candidates for our manager-in-training, or MIT, program, our level of customer service may decline, which may decrease our net sales and profitability. We have significant future capital needs that we may be unable to fund and this failure could curtail our projected growth. Our expansion plans will require substantial capital, including funds for capital expenditures, pre-opening costs, working capital requirements and initial operating losses related to new store openings. We also require additional capital for remodeling and renovating our existing stores and continuous management information system updates. Gross capital expenditures during fiscal 2008, prior to any forward funding arrangements, were $42.2 million. See “—Any failure of our information technology infrastructure, or any delay or problem with the upgrading of our existing management information system, could cause a disruption in our business and increase costs.” If the cash provided by operating activities, available borrowings under our revolving credit facility and proceeds from sale and leaseback transactions are not sufficient to fund our operations, store expansion and renovation activities and infrastructure and information technology investment, we may be required to seek additional capital. If we are not able to obtain such additional financing on favorable terms, we may need to curtail our expansion plans and defer some or all of the upgrade of our management information system. 14 Table of Contents Because our hhgregg stores are generally concentrated in Midwest and Southeast portions of the United States, we are subject to regional risks. Our stores are located in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, North Carolina, Ohio, South Carolina, and Tennessee. We therefore have exposure to these local economies as well as weather conditions and natural disasters occurring in these states. If these markets individually or collectively suffer an economic downturn or other adverse event, there could be an adverse impact on our comparable store sales, net sales and profitability and our ability to implement our planned expansion program. Several of our larger competitors operate stores nationwide and thus are not as vulnerable as we are to these risks. In addition, our net sales depend on discretionary consumer spending, which may decrease on a regional basis due to a number of factors beyond our control, including unfavorable economic conditions, increases in consumer debt levels, unemployment or inflation, or other factors that adversely affect consumer confidence. A natural disaster or other disruption at our central distribution centers could cause us to lose merchandise and be unable to effectively deliver to our customers and stores, which could reduce our profits. At March 31, 2008 we relied on two central distribution centers in Atlanta and Indianapolis to handle our distribution needs. We opened a third central distribution center in Davenport, Florida in April 2008. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to these centers due to fire, tornado, hurricane or any other calamity could damage a significant portion of our inventory, and materially impair our ability to adequately stock our stores and deliver merchandise to customers and could result in decreased net sales, increased costs and reduced profits. Our quarterly results fluctuate due to seasonal demand for our products and if we miscalculate this demand our net sales and profitability could decline. We experience seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and operating results due in part to seasonal shopping patterns. For example, in fiscal 2008 and 2007, we generated 31.1% and 31.6%, respectively, of our net sales in the fiscal quarter ended December 31, which includes the holiday selling season. We also incur significant additional costs and expenses during this fiscal quarter due to increased staffing levels and higher purchase volumes. If we miscalculate the demand for our products generally or for our product mix during the fiscal quarter ending December 31, our net sales could decline, resulting in excess inventory, which could tie up our working capital and revolving credit facility, as well as lower our profit margin as a result of product markdowns. A shortfall in expected net sales, combined with our significant additional expenses during these fiscal quarters, could cause a significant decline in our operating results. If we are unable to retain key management, we could have difficulty implementing our business strategy, which may result in reduced net sales, operating margins and profitability. We are dependent on the skills, experience and continued service of our senior management. We entered into employment agreements with these key officers which include secrecy, non-competition and other customary provisions. If members of senior management cease to be active in the management of our business or decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, our business and operations could be harmed, and we could have difficulty in implementing our strategy, which may result in reduced net sales, operating margins and profitability. If our third-party delivery service is unable to meet our promised delivery schedule, our net sales may decline due to a decline in customer satisfaction. We offer same-day delivery of virtually all of the products we sell. A majority of our deliveries is outsourced to a third-party delivery service. Our third-party delivery service is subject to risks that are beyond our control. If our products are not delivered to our customers on time, our customers may cancel their orders or we may lose business from these customers in the future. As a result, our net sales and profitability may decline. 15 Table of Contents Changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations and other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our net sales, profitability and competitive position. A significant portion of our inventory is manufactured outside the United States. Changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations, economic or political instability, natural disasters, public health emergencies and other factors beyond our control may increase the cost of items we purchase or create shortages of these items, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods, or may force us to increase prices, thereby adversely impacting net sales and profitability. Conversely, significant reductions in the cost of these items in U.S. dollars may cause a significant reduction in the retail prices of those products, enabling price competition that adversely impacts net sales and profitability, as well as our competitive position. Any failure of our information technology infrastructure, or any delay or problem with the upgrading of our existing management information system, could cause a disruption in our business and increase costs. Our ability to operate our business from day to day largely depends on the efficient operation of our management information system. We use our management information system to conduct our operations and for critical corporate and business planning functions, including store operations, sales management, merchandising, marketing, supply chain and inventory management, financial reporting and accounting, delivery and other customer services and various administrative functions. Any failure that is not covered by our disaster recovery plan could cause an interruption in our operations and adversely affect our financial results. Our existing computer hardware platform, upon which several key business software applications reside, will no longer be supported by the manufacturer after December 31, 2010. We have commenced a plan to migrate these key software applications to a new operating system and hardware platform prior to December 31, 2010. Our current estimate of the additional capital expenditures related to this project is approximately $3 million to $5 million over the next year. This estimate could increase if we are required to accelerate the implementation of our current migration plan. Our transition to the new operating system and hardware platform may not be completed in the expected timeframe, and may result in significant unanticipated costs. If the integrity and security of our customers’ information is not protected, it could expose us to litigation and materially damage our standing with our customers. We capture, transmit, handle and store sensitive information, which involves certain inherent security risks. Such risks include, among other things, the interception of the personal information of our customers by persons outside the Company or by our own employees. Additionally, the success of our online operations depends upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including the use of cashless payments. While we are taking significant steps to protect customer and confidential information, there can be no assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will prevent the compromise of our customer transaction processing capabilities and personal data. If any such compromise of our information security were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition and may increase the costs we incur to protect against such information security breaches. We have anti-takeover defense provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions in our debt instruments that may deter potential acquirers and depress the price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. These provisions: • authorize our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock and determine the powers, preferences and privileges of those shares without prior stockholder approval; • limit the calling of special meetings of stockholders; and 16 Table of Contents • impose a requirement that an affirmative vote of the holders of 66 2/3% of the outstanding shares of common stock is required to amend certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Our debt instruments also contain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult or less attractive for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. Specifically, the terms of our senior notes require that they be redeemed at a premium over their principal amount in the event that we undergo a change of control. In addition, our existing credit facility provides that a change of control constitutes an event of default under that facility and will cause the borrowing under our credit facility to become immediately due. Our future debt agreements, including our credit facilities, may contain similar provisions. The need to repay all of this indebtedness may deter potential third parties from acquiring us. Under these various provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and debt instruments, a takeover attempt or third-party acquisition of us, including a takeover attempt that may result in a premium over the market price for shares of our common stock, could be delayed, deterred or prevented. In addition, these provisions may prevent the market price of our common stock from increasing in response to actual or rumored takeover attempts and may also prevent changes in our management. As a result, these anti-takeover and change of control provisions may limit the price investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our executive officers, directors and current principal stockholders own a large percentage of our voting common stock and could limit the influence of our other stockholders on corporate decisions. Our executive officers, directors, current holders of more than 5% of our outstanding common stock and their respective affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 72.8% of our outstanding common stock. Should some of these stockholders act together, they would be able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including mergers, sales of assets, the election of directors or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our corporate interests or the interests of our other stockholders, and they may act in a manner with which you may not agree or that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 