D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with the financial and other information contained in this annual report, before you decide to invest in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would suffer. In that case, the trading price of our ordinary shares would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Company We operate in a highly competitive industry and if we are not able to compete effectively our business and operating results may be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Some of our competitors are large international analytical instrument suppliers who also supply LIMS software. These competitors have greater name recognition, longer operating histories and significantly greater resources than we have. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards (regulatory or otherwise) or customer requirements. In addition, if the market experiences a greater degree of consolidation, we may face competitors that have greater market share, a larger customer base, more widely adopted proprietary technologies, greater marketing expertise and larger sales forces than we have, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. With the growth of the LIMS market, we may face increased competition in the future if new entities enter our markets. Increased competition may result in pricing pressures, which could negatively impact our sales, gross margins or market share. Further, we may encounter difficulties in the future should we attempt to enter into geographical or vertical markets in which we have no prior experience. We may not be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position against current and future competitors. Our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, which could negatively impact our revenues and our ability to generate profits. Furthermore, the market for our software products is characterized by evolving regulatory requirements and industry standards, as well as frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements that may render existing product offerings obsolete. As a result, we are susceptible to rapid and significant declines in market share due to unforeseen changes in the quality, features, functions or pricing of competing products. 5 Our quarterly operating results have historically fluctuated and may do so in the future. Our revenues are generally attributable to a small number of transactions in each quarter. Such transactions are dependent upon our customers’ initial decisions to replace their existing LIMS, and consequently, a decision as to which product to purchase. These are major decisions and accordingly, the sales cycle for our software product offerings can vary significantly and typically ranges from six to 12 months from initial contact to execution of contract and delivery. Customers often defer the closing of a transaction to the end of our quarter, so quarterly results generally cannot be adequately predicted and frequently are not known until the end of the quarter. Our software products are generally shipped as binding orders are received, and accordingly, revenues in any quarter are dependent on orders booked and shipped in that quarter and are not predictable with any high degree of certainty. Furthermore, a single sale transaction may represent a significant portion of our revenues and profit for a quarter. A delay in just one of these transactions from one quarter into a subsequent quarter, or a loss of one of these potential transactions, could cause our quarterly results to fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly revenues may also fluctuate in the future, as a result of a number of other factors including, without limitation: — government requirements that certain budgets be utilized during a specified period; — the timing of new product announcements and product introductions by us or our competitors; — market acceptance of new products, applications and product enhancements; — our success in expanding our sales and marketing programs; — deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products, applications, product enhancements, or public and private sector initiatives; and — general market and economic factors. Because a significant percentage of our quarterly expenses are fixed, a variation in the timing of closing transactions can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Accordingly, the loss or deferral of even one such transaction can have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly revenues and profitability and could also cause us to achieve quarterly financial results that are below projections of securities analysts and, as a result, may negatively impact the market price of our shares. Based on the foregoing, we believe that interim period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Further, our historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future performance for any particular period. A significant portion of our sales are to laboratories in the public sector and our financial condition, operating results and prospects would be adversely affected by U.S. government budget cutbacks or spending reductions or if our U.S. subsidiary was excluded in the future from U.S. federal government projects because it is a foreign-owned company. In 2006 and 2007, sales to laboratories in the public sector accounted for 44% and 42% of our total revenues, respectively. Of the total revenues in 2006 and 2007, 32% and 33%, respectively, were attributable to U.S. federal, state and local government contracts. We believe that the success and growth of our business will continue to depend upon our successful procurement of government contracts. Companies that are not incorporated and located in the United States, or that are owned by non-U.S. entities, may be excluded from certain U.S. federal government projects. Our financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected if our U.S. subsidiary were excluded in the future from U.S. federal government projects because it is a foreign-owned company. In addition, the award of additional contracts from government agencies could be adversely affected by spending reductions or budget cutbacks at government agencies that currently use or are likely to use our products. Accordingly, changes in government contracting policies, budgetary constraints and delays or changes in the appropriations process could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 We could incur substantial costs resulting from software product liability claims relating to our software products or our customers' use of our software products. Material software product errors could adversely affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us, expose us to a risk of litigation and possible liability and impair our ability to sell our software products in the future. Software products as complex as ours often contain undetected errors or failures. Our software is used in critical systems and our customers may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and failures than customers of other software products due to the sensitive nature of the information captured by our LIMS solution. We have in the past discovered errors in our software applications and will likely continue to do so in the future. Material product errors could adversely affect the collection and processing of data by our customers and as a result, harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us, expose us to a risk of litigation and possible liability, impair our ability to sell our products in the future and result in our inability to attract or retain customers. The costs arising from such litigation could adversely affect our operating margins. Further, we cannot assure you that our existing general liability insurance coverage will continue to be available at reasonable terms or will be available in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. We participate in a program that facilitates sales of our products and services to U.S. federal government laboratories. If we are unable to continue to participate in this program in the future, or if we do not comply with the terms of our U.S. federal government contracts, our revenues and prospects would be materially harmed. In 2004, we were awarded a U.S. General Services Administration, or GSA, Information Technology Schedule 70, or GSA Schedule 70. The GSA Schedule 70 program is intended to facilitate efficient sales to U.S. federal government agencies and requires that we provide government agencies with “most-favored nation” type pricing with respect to sales of our products to the government agencies. In addition, government agencies that purchase our products pursuant to GSA contracts are permitted to conduct administrative audits of us as part of their routine audits and investigations of government contracts. As part of the audit process, among other things, the government agency may review our performance under the contract, cost structure, including the cost of comparable products to third parties, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If any of our winning bids is found to be improperly priced, a portion of the revenue received by us may have to be refunded and an additional penalty may have to be paid by us. Any future audit with unfavorable results could materially adversely affect our competitive position, prospects and our operating results and financial condition. If our GSA Schedule 70 award is not extended after its initial term, which expires in July 2009, or if we do not comply with the terms of our contracts with the GSA, or if in the future the U.S. federal government ceases to do business with us or significantly decreases the amount of business it currently does with us, our revenues and prospects would be materially harmed. Our most recent software releases are at a relatively early stage of market adoption and the failure of these products toachieve or maintain wide adoption would harm our operating results. In March 2006, we began offering Version 10 of STARLIMS, which is the first web-based version of our software. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we began offering, together with STARLIMS Version 10, an additional module enabling the functionality of a scientific data management system, or SDMS. Broad and timely adoption of such releases and any new products we may release in the future is critical to our future success and subject to a number of significant risks, some of which are outside our control. These risks include: — our customers' and prospective customers' adoption of our LIMS product offerings; 7 — our ability to meet product development and release schedules; and — our ability to significantly expand our internal resources and increase our capital and operating expenses to support the anticipated growth in demand for our software products. Our failure to address, mitigate or manage these risks would seriously harm our business. Our future success depends upon our ability to develop new products and enhance our existing products. Failure to successfully introduce new or enhanced products to the market in a timely manner may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends on our ability to develop enhancements to our existing products and to timely introduce new products that keep pace with rapid technological developments and changes in customers’ needs. We must continue to modify and enhance our products to keep pace with changes in network platforms, operating systems, software technology and changing customer demands. Any failure of our products to operate effectively with future network platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our products and result in customer dissatisfaction. Furthermore, any new products or enhancements that we develop may not be released in a timely manner and may not achieve the market acceptance necessary to generate significant sales revenues. As a result, we may expend significant resources towards research and development for new or enhanced products, which may not gain market acceptance or generate sufficient sales to offset the costs of research and development. If we are unable to timely and successfully develop new products or improve our existing products, or if we fail to position or price our products to meet market demand, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Failure to manage our growth effectively could harm our business. In recent years, we have experienced rapid growth that has placed a significant strain on our operational and financial resources and our personnel. From January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2007, the number of our full-time employees increased from 42 to 153. To manage our anticipated future growth effectively, we must expand operations in geographically dispersed locations, and attract, integrate, train and retain a significant number of qualified sales and marketing personnel, professional services personnel, highly skilled software engineers and management personnel. We must also continue to maintain and may need to enhance our information technology infrastructure and financial and accounting systems and controls. Failure to manage our rapid growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We are dependent on the key members of our management and if we are unable to retain these key managers and hire additional skilled personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled employees and contract workers, particularly our management team, sales and marketing personnel, professional services personnel and software engineers. Two of our executive officers may terminate their relationship with us upon 180 days prior written notice, three are required to provide 90 days prior written notice and the remaining two may terminate their relationship with us at any time. Some of our non-executive employees may terminate their relationship with us at any time, while others are subject to a prior written notice requirement of between 30 and 90 days. The loss of any key member of our management team might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business or development objectives. Our ability to replace key members of our management team and hire additional skilled personnel in the future might be negatively impacted by the use of restrictive covenants in our industry and market. Because of the technical nature of our software products and the dynamic market in which we compete, any failure to attract and retain qualified direct sales, professional services and product development personnel, as well as our contract employees, could have a material adverse affect on our ability to generate sales, deploy our software products or successfully develop new software products and enhancements. 8 The global nature of our business exposes us to multiple risks and these risks may increase in the future due to the expected global expansion of our business. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, approximately 24%, 26% and 32%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from operations outside of North America. We expect that our international operations will account for a more significant portion of our revenues in the future. As a result of our international operations, we are exposed to many risks and uncertainties, including: — difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting operations in multiple countries; — different and changing legal and regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future; — government currency control and restrictions on repatriation of earnings; — fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and — political and economic changes, hostilities and other disruptions in regions where we currently operate or may operate in the future. Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in demand for our software products, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, difficulty in collecting receivables, and a higher cost of doing business, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. These risks may increase in the future due to the expected global expansion of our business. Tax benefits that are available to us require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our future tax expenses. In June 2006, we received a pre-ruling from the Israeli Tax Authority according to which a development center we established in November 2006 in Ashkelon, Israel will be regarded as a “Benefited Enterprise.” This entitles us to tax benefits under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, referred to as the Investments Law. The benefits include full exemption from corporate tax on undistributed taxable income attributable to the Benefited Enterprise, reduced tax on dividends and accelerated depreciation for manufacturing assets. For a ten-year period ending December 31, 2015, any taxable income attributable to an increase in the revenues we account for in Israel over the average annual revenues for the years 2003-2005 ($3.5 million) will be tax exempt. The result of this tax benefit in 2007 was a reduction in our total tax expenses of approximately $600,000. The benefits are conditional on our compliance with certain conditions in the Investments Law and the terms of the pre-ruling from the Israeli Tax Authority. Under the Investments Law, we must comply with at least one of three conditions during the period of entitlement, of which the following two conditions are applicable to our business: (i) that revenues of our Benefited Enterprise from any single country not exceed 75% of its total revenues; and (ii) that at least 25% of our Benefited Enterprise’s revenues during the benefit period derive from sales into a single country with a population of at least 12 million. Under the pre-ruling, we are bound by several other demands, including that we remain controlled and managed from Israel throughout the benefit period, that we not change our line of business or business model, and that we not significantly reduce the volume of our production or variety of our products. In addition, under the pre-ruling, during the benefit period, a certain percentage of our employees that are engaged in core research and development must be located in Israel; a certain percentage of our employees that are engaged in quality control must be located in Israel, and no fewer than 12 of our employees engaged in core research and development must have been recruited and be employed in Israel. If we do not comply with either of those conditions, we may be required to pay the monetary equivalent of the tax benefits we received under the pre-ruling, linked to the Israeli consumer price index, plus interest and penalties, and the benefits may be discontinued, in whole or in part. Such a result would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 9 We may engage in future acquisitions, which may be expensive and time consuming and from which we may not realize anticipated benefits. We may acquire additional businesses, technologies and products if we determine that these additional businesses, technologies and products are likely to serve our strategic goals. The specific risks we may encounter in these types of transactions may include: — potentially dilutive issuances of our securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions; — the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; — difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts and personnel of the target business and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; — the purchase price or other resources that we devote to an acquisition may exceed the value we eventually realize from the acquisition, or may exceed the value we could have realized had we allocated the purchase price or such other resources to a different business opportunity; and — the possibility that acquired assets become impaired, requiring us to record an impairment charge to earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims that we or our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party may require us to incur significant costs, to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or to develop or license substitute technology. We may in the future be subject to claims that our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party. Our technology may now or in the future infringe on the intellectual property rights held by others. The legal framework for software patents is rapidly evolving and software developers may increasingly be subject to infringement claims. Any claims of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is without merit, and could distract our management from our business. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from the claim could require us to pay substantial amounts or obtain a license to continue to use the technology that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. We might not be able to obtain a license from the third party asserting the claim on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may also not be able to successfully develop alternative technology on a timely basis, if at all, nor be able to obtain a license from another provider of suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, the applicable technology. In addition, we generally state in our customer agreements that we will indemnify our customers against third party infringement claims relating to our technology provided to the customer, which could obligate us to fund significant amounts in the event that a suit is brought directly against us and our customers. Infringement claims asserted against us or our distributors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be unable to adequately protect, and we may incur significant costs in defending, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition, in general we require our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality and non-competition agreements and assignment of invention agreements. To the extent that our intellectual property and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected, third parties might gain access to our proprietary information, develop and market products similar to ours, or use trademarks similar to ours, each of which could materially harm our business. Existing U.S. federal and state intellectual property laws offer only limited protection. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. The failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 10 In the course of conducting our business, we possess or could be deemed to possess confidential information, and if we fail to keep such information properly protected, we could be exposed to significant liability. Our STARLIMS software is used to collect, manage and report information produced in laboratories. Some of this information is, or could be considered to be, confidential information. Regulation of the use and disclosure of confidential information is complex and constantly changing. Increased focus on individuals’ rights to confidentiality of their personal information, including personal medical information, could lead to an increase of existing and future legislative or regulatory initiatives giving direct legal remedies to individuals, including rights to damages against entities deemed responsible for not adequately protecting such personal information. In addition, courts may look to regulatory standards in identifying or applying a common law theory of liability, whether or not the applicable law affords a private right of action. If we fail to properly protect confidential information that is in our possession or deemed to be in our possession, we could be exposed to significant liability, which could harm our business. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares The price of our ordinary shares may be highly volatile and may decline in the future regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our ordinary shares could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to: — fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; — changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts and our failure to achieve operating results consistent with securities analysts’projections; — the public's response to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Israeli Securities Authority; — changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; — sales of ordinary shares by our directors, officers and significant shareholders; — announcements of technological innovations or enhanced or new products by us or our competitors; — the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; — broad market and industry factors; — changes in regulatory requirements that apply to our customers; and — other events or factors in any of the countries in which we operate, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, natural disasters or responses to such events. 11 The market prices of ordinary shares of software companies have been extremely volatile. Stock prices of many software companies have often fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. In the past, following periods of market volatility, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation relating to the stock trading and price volatility of the software company in question. If we were involved in any securities litigation, it could result in substantial cost to us to defend and divert resources and the attention of management from our business. Three of our shareholders, who are also directors and executive officers, are parties to a voting agreement, beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 29% of our ordinary shares and may be able to influence our affairs. Itschak Friedman, chairman of our board of directors and our chief executive officer, Dinu Toiba, vice chairman of our board of directors and our executive vice president and chief information officer, and Chaim Friedman, a director and our chief financial officer, are parties to a voting agreement dated October 31, 1993, as amended on December 21, 2005. The voting agreement also grants the parties a right of first refusal to purchase each other’s shares in our company. Such persons beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 29% of our outstanding shares. As a result, these persons may have a significant influence on the election of our directors and other matters requiring a shareholder vote. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares have traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or the TASE, since November 1993 and on The NASDAQ Global Market since May 2007. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (dollars on The NASDAQ Global Market and New Israeli Shekels, or NIS, on the TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ. Additionally, any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets may, and often does, cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as they apply to foreign private issuer that recently listed on a U.S. exchange for the first time, or our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our stock price may suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its subsidiaries’ internal controls over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we will be required to document and test our internal control procedures; our management will be required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal controls over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to issue an opinion on management’s assessment of those matters. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will first be tested in connection with the filing of our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2008. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal controls over financial reporting are complex and new to us and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, which may not be remedied prior to the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies material weaknesses in our internal controls when its report is required, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and the market price of our ordinary shares may suffer. 12 As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or on its website each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. As a foreign private issuer listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, composition of the board of directors, director nomination procedure, compensation of officers, and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow our home country law, instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, which require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of our company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in our company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his or her power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes at the general meeting with respect to, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and actions and transactions involving interests of officers, directors or other interested parties which require the shareholders’ general meeting’s approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that he or she possesses the power to determine the outcome of a vote at a meeting of our shareholders, or who has, by virtue of the company’s articles of association, the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of an office holder in the company, or any other power with respect to the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. The Israeli Companies Law does not establish criteria for determining whether or not a shareholder has acted in good faith. Moreover, the law is relatively new and there is no case law available on the duty of a non-controlling shareholder to act in good faith. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or complicate an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. See “Description of Share Capital – Approval of Related Party Transactions” and “Israeli Taxation” for additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law. These provisions of Israeli law may delay or complicate an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. 13 Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. We are incorporated in the State of Israel. Two members of our management who also serve as directors, our two outside directors (within the meaning of the Israeli Companies Law) and approximately 15% of our staff are located in Israel. Accordingly, we are influenced to a limited extent by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel, or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in September 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity through 2007. Recently, there was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, as well as extensive hostilities along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon in the summer of 2006. Since June 2007, when Hamas effectively took control of the Gaza Strip, there have been extensive hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip, which have intensified since February 2008. In March 2008, rockets fired from the Gaza Strip hit Ashkelon, the city in which our Israeli research and development center is located. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians may have a negative effect on the research and development activities that we conduct in Israel and may adversely affect our share price. Some of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. Investors and our shareholders generally may have difficulties asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or enforcing a U.S. judgment against us, some of our executive officers and directors and the Israeli experts named in this Annual Report. We are incorporated in Israel and some of our directors, executive officers and the Israeli experts named in this Annual Report reside outside the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, most of our assets and the assets of our executive officers and directors and some of the experts named in this Annual Report are located outside the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. For more information regarding the enforceability of civil liabilities against us, our directors and executive officers and the Israeli experts named in this Annual Report, including the terms under which certain judgments may be enforced by an Israeli court, please see “Enforceability of Civil Liabilities.” 