Item 1A. Risk Factors Investment in our common stock involves significant risks. If any of the risks discussed in this report occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risk factors set forth below are not the only risks that may affect us. Some statements in this report, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Forward Looking Statements.” Risks Related To Our Business Increases in interest rates and adverse market conditions may negatively affect the value of our investments and increase the cost of our borrowings, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and reduced cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We invest indirectly in mortgage loans by purchasing Agency RMBS. Under a normal yield curve, an investment in Agency RMBS will decline in value if long term interest rates increase. In addition, net interest income could decrease if the yield curve became inverted or flat. Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees of the principal and interest payments related to the Agency RMBS we own do not protect us from declines in market value caused by changes in interest rates. Declines in the market value of our investments may ultimately result in losses to us, which may reduce earnings and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A significant risk associated with our investment in Agency RMBS is the risk that both long term and short term interest rates will increase significantly. If long term rates were to increase significantly, the market value of our Agency RMBS would decline and the duration and weighted average life of the investments would increase. We could realize a loss if the securities were sold. At the same time, an increase in short term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on our repurchase agreements used to finance the purchase of Agency RMBS, which would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Market values of our investments may decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments for those investments that we have that are subject to prepayment risk, and widening of credit spreads. If the market values of our investments were to decline for any reason, the value of your investment could also decline. We leverage our portfolio investments in Agency RMBS, which may adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We leverage our portfolio investments in Agency RMBS through borrowings under repurchase agreements. Leverage can enhance our potential returns but can also exacerbate losses. The percentage of leverage will vary depending on our ability to obtain these financing facilities and the lender’s and rating agencies’ estimate of the stability of the portfolio investments’ cash flow. As of December 31, 2011, our portfolio leverage ratio (calculated by dividing (i) our repurchase agreements balance plus payable for securities purchased minus receivable for securities sold (ii) by net assets) was approximately 7.7 to 1. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced if market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, our debt service payments will reduce cash flow available for distributions to stockholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations. To the extent that we cannot meet our debt service obligations, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy our debt obligations. 8 Table of Contents Our lenders may require us to provide additional collateral, especially when the market values for our investments decline, which may restrict us from leveraging our assets as fully as desired, and reduce our liquidity, earnings and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We currently use repurchase agreements to finance our investments in Agency RMBS. Our repurchase agreements allow the lenders, to varying degrees, to determine a new market value of the collateral to reflect current market conditions. If the market value of the securities pledged or sold by us to a funding source declines in value, we may be required by the lender to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced on minimal notice, which is known as a margin call. Posting additional collateral will reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets, which could adversely affect our business. Additionally, in order to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur further losses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may impair our ability to maintain our current level of distributions to our stockholders. We receive margin calls from our repurchase agreement counterparties from time to time in the ordinary course of business similar to other entities in the specialty finance business. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $580.0 million in Agency RMBS, U.S. Treasury securities, cash and cash equivalents available to satisfy future margin calls. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy these margin calls, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness, increase our borrowing rates, liquidate our collateral and terminate our ability to borrow. Such a situation would likely result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and possibly necessitate a filing for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Hedging against interest rate exposure may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk and may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distributions to our stockholders. Subject to compliance with the requirements to qualify as a REIT, we engage in certain hedging transactions to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates and therefore may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors and Eurodollar and U.S. Treasury futures to seek to hedge the interest rate risk associated with our portfolio. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, we may establish other hedging positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of our hedging transactions depends on our ability to accurately predict movements of interest rates and credit spreads. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. We currently hedge against interest rate risk. Our hedging activity varies in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of portfolio investments held, and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; 9 Table of Contents • the credit quality of the hedging counterparty may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the counterparty in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. Our interest rate hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders and negatively impact our stock price. Our use of repurchase agreements may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or any of our lenders file for bankruptcy, which may make it difficult for us to recover our collateral. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay if we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that any of our lenders file for bankruptcy. Thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either our lenders or us. In addition, if the lender is a broker or dealer subject to the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 or an insured depository institution subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, our ability to exercise our rights to recover our investment under a repurchase agreement or to be compensated for any damages resulting from the lender’s insolvency may be further limited by those statutes. Our use of certain hedging techniques may expose us to counterparty risks. If an interest rate swap counterparty cannot perform under the terms of the interest rate swap, we may not receive payments due under that swap, and thus, we may lose any unrealized gain associated with the interest rate swap. The hedged liability could cease to be hedged by the interest rate swap. Additionally, we may also risk the loss of any collateral we have pledged to secure our obligations under the interest rate swap if the counterparty becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy. Similarly, if an interest rate cap counterparty fails to perform under the terms of the interest rate cap agreement, we may not receive payments due under that agreement that would offset our interest expense. We could then incur a loss for the then remaining fair market value of the interest rate cap. If the lending institution under one or more of our repurchase agreements defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the agreement term, we will lose money on our repurchase transactions. When we engage in a repurchase transaction, we initially sell securities to the transaction counterparty under a master repurchase agreement in exchange for cash from the counterparty. The counterparty is obligated to resell the same securities back to us at the end of the term of the repurchase agreement, which typically is 30 to 90 days, but may be up to one year. If the counterparty in a repurchase transaction defaults on its obligation to resell the securities back to us, we will incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming no change in the value of the securities). Losses incurred on our repurchase transactions would adversely affect our earnings and our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If we default on our obligations under our repurchase agreements, we may be unable to establish a suitable replacement facility on acceptable terms or at all. If we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase agreement, the counterparty may terminate the agreement and cease entering into any other repurchase agreements with us. In that case, we would likely need to establish a replacement repurchase facility with another financial institution in order to continue to leverage our investment portfolio and carry out our investment strategy. We may be unable to establish a suitable replacement repurchase facility on acceptable terms or at all. 10 Table of Contents Failure to procure adequate funding and capital would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the value of our common stock and our ability to distribute cash to our stockholders. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations. To maintain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income annually, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, to our stockholders and therefore are not able to retain our earnings for new investments. We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. In the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding and capital on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Loss of our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act would negatively affect the value of shares of our common stock and our ability to distribute cash to our stockholders. We have operated and intend to continue to operate our business so as to be exempt from registration under the Investment Company Act because we are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Specifically, we invest and intend to continue to invest so that at least 55% of the assets that we own on an unconsolidated basis consist of qualifying mortgages and other liens and interests in real estate, which are collectively referred to as “qualifying real estate assets,” and so that at least 80% of the assets we own on an unconsolidated basis consist of real estate related assets (including our qualifying real estate assets). We treat Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae whole-pool residential mortgage pass-through securities issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgage loans in which we hold all of the certificates issued by the pool as qualifying real estate assets. Although CMOs are real estate related assets, they are not “qualifying real estate assets” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. On August 31, 2011, the SEC issued a concept release (No. IC-29778; File No. SW7-34-11, Companies Engaged in the Business of Acquiring Mortgages and Mortgage-Related Instruments) pursuant to which it is reviewing whether certain companies that invest in RMBS and rely on the exemption from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act (such as us) should be allowed to continue relying on such exemption from registration. If we fail to qualify for this exemption, or the SEC determines that companies that invest in RMBS are no longer able to rely on this exemption, we could be required to restructure our activities in a manner that, or at a time when, we would not otherwise choose to do so, or we may be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, either of which could negatively affect the value of shares of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The federal conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government, may adversely affect our business. The payments we receive on the Agency RMBS in which we invest depend upon a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities and are guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Ginnie Mae is part of a U.S. Government agency and its guarantees are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are U.S. Government-sponsored entities (“GSEs”), but their guarantees are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Since 2007, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have reported substantial losses and a need for substantial amounts of additional capital. In response to the deteriorating financial condition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the recent credit market disruption, Congress and the U.S. Treasury undertook a series of actions to stabilize these GSEs and the financial markets, generally. The Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 was signed into law on July 30, 2008, and established the Federal Housing Finance Agency, (“FHFA”), with enhanced 11 Table of Contents regulatory authority over, among other things, the business activities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the size of their portfolio holdings. On September 7, 2008, in response to the deterioration in the financial condition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the FHFA placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship, which is a statutory process pursuant to which the FHFA will operate Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as conservator in an effort to stabilize the entities. Together with the U.S. Treasury and the U.S. Federal Reserve, the FHA has undertaken actions designed to boost investor confidence in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, support the availability of mortgage financing and protect taxpayers. The appointment of the FHFA as conservator of both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac allows the FHFA to control the actions of the two GSEs without forcing them to liquidate, which would be the case under receivership. In addition, the U.S. Treasury has taken steps to capitalize and provide financing to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and agreed to purchase direct obligations and Agency RMBS issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Shortly after Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed in federal conservatorship, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, in announcing the actions, noted that the guarantee structure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac required examination and that changes in the structures of the entities were necessary to reduce risk to the financial system. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be eliminated or considerably limited relative to historical measurements. Any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitutes Agency RMBS and could have broad adverse market implications as well as negatively impact us. The problems faced by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac resulting in their being placed into federal conservatorship have stirred debate among some federal policy makers regarding the continued role of the U.S. Government in providing liquidity for the residential mortgage market. If federal policy makers decide that the U.S. Government’s role in providing liquidity for the residential mortgage market should be reduced or eliminated, each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be dissolved and the U.S. Government could decide to stop providing liquidity support of any kind to the mortgage market. If Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac were eliminated, or their structures were to change radically, we would not be able to acquire Agency RMBS from these companies, which would drastically reduce the amount and type of Agency RMBS available for investment. As of December 31, 2011, 99.8% of our investments had the principal and interest guaranteed by either Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae or were U.S. Treasury securities. Our income could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold. For example, the current credit support provided by the U.S. Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rate we receive from Agency RMBS, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted investments and our cost of financing that portfolio. A reduction in the supply of Agency RMBS could also increase the prices of Agency RMBS we seek to acquire thereby reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. As indicated above, recent legislation has changed the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government and requires Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce the amount of mortgage loans they own or for which they provide guarantees on Agency RMBS. The effect of the actions taken by the U.S. Government remains uncertain. Furthermore, the scope and nature of the actions that the U.S. Government will ultimately undertake are unknown and will continue to evolve. Future legislation could further change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government, and could also nationalize or eliminate these GSEs entirely. Any law affecting these GSEs may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. As a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on investments in Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac Agency RMBS. It is also possible that such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and the spreads at which they trade. All of the foregoing could materially adversely affect the pricing, supply, liquidity and value of our target assets and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Certain actions by the U.S. Federal Reserve could cause a flattening of the yield curve, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. On September 21, 2011, the U.S. Federal Reserve announced “Operation Twist,” which is a program under which it intends to purchase, by the end of June 2012, $400 billion of U.S. Treasury securities with remaining maturities between six and 30 years and sell an equal amount of U.S. Treasury securities with remaining maturities of three years or less. The effect of Operation Twist could be a flattening of the yield curve, which could result in increased prepayment rates due to lower long-term interest rates and a narrowing of our net interest margin. Consequently, Operation Twist and any other future securities purchase programs of the U.S. Federal Reserve could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the Agency RMBS in which we invest. During the second half of 2008, the U.S. Government, through the Federal Housing Authority, (“FHA”), and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), commenced implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures. These and any future programs may involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans. In addition, in February 2009 the U.S. Treasury announced the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, or HASP, which is a multi-faceted plan, intended to prevent residential mortgage foreclosures by, among other things: • allowing certain homeowners whose homes are encumbered by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac conforming mortgages to refinance those mortgages into lower interest rate mortgages with either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac; • creating the Homeowner Stability Initiative, which is intended to utilize various incentives for banks and mortgage servicers to modify residential mortgage loans with the goal of reducing monthly mortgage principal and interest payments for certain qualified homeowners; and • allowing judicial modifications of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac conforming residential mortgage loans during bankruptcy proceedings. In September 2011, the White House announced they are working on a major plan to allow some of the 11 million homeowners who owe more on their mortgages than their homes are worth to refinance. In October 2011, the FHFA announced proposed changes to the Home Affordable Refinance Program (“HARP”) that would expand access to refinancing for qualified individuals and families whose homes have lost value, among other things, increasing the HARP loan-to-value ratio above 125%. However, this would only apply to mortgages guaranteed by the GSEs. There are many challenging issues to this proposal, notably the question as to whether a loan with a loan-to-value ratio of 125% qualifies as a mortgage or an unsecured consumer loan. The chances of this initiative’s success have created additional uncertainty in the RMBS market, particularly with respect to possible increases in prepayment rates. On January 4, 2012, the U.S. Federal Reserve issued a white paper outlining additional ideas with regard to refinancing’s and loan modifications. It is likely that loan modifications would result in increased prepayments on some Agency RMBS. See“—Prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our Agency RMBS, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders,” for information relating to the impact of prepayments on our business. These initiatives, any future loan modification programs and future legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the Agency RMBS in which we invest. 13 Table of Contents The downgrade of the U.S.’s and certain European countries’ credit ratings and any future downgrades of the U.S.’s and certain European countries’ credit ratings may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the U.S.’s credit rating for the first time in history. Because Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are in conservatorship of the U.S. Government, downgrades to the U.S.’s credit rating could impact the credit risk associated with Agency RMBS and, therefore, decrease the value of the Agency RMBS in our portfolio. In addition, the downgrade of the U.S. Government’s credit rating and the credit ratings of certain European countries has created broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which has weighed heavily on the global banking system. Therefore, the recent downgrade of the U.S.’s credit rating and the credit ratings of certain European countries and any future downgrades of the U.S.’s credit rating and the credit ratings of certain European countries may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our Agency RMBS, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In the case of residential mortgage loans, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ abilities to prepay their loans. Homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when applicable mortgage interest rates decline. Furthermore, both HARP and Operation Twist could cause an increase in prepayment rates. Consequently, owners of the loans have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when mortgage interest rates remain steady or increase. Consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher prevailing interest rates. This volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our Agency RMBS portfolio and may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees of principal and interest related to the Agency RMBS we own do not protect us against prepayment risks. Our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value based on market quotations from pricing services and broker/dealers. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. All of our current portfolio investments are, and some of our future portfolio investments will be, in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We currently value and will continue to value these investments monthly at fair value as determined by our management based on market quotations from pricing services and brokers/dealers. Because such quotations and valuations are inherently uncertain, they may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, and our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a public market for these securities existed. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. Our delayed delivery transactions, including “to-be-announced” transactions, or TBAs, subject us to certain risks, including price risks and counterparty risks. We purchase a substantial portion of our Agency RMBS through delayed delivery transactions, including TBAs. In a delayed delivery transaction, we enter into a forward purchase agreement with a counterparty to purchase either (i) an identified Agency RMBS, or (ii) a to-be-issued (or “to-be-announced”) Agency RMBS with certain terms. As with any forward purchase contract, the value of the underlying Agency RMBS may decrease between the contract date and the settlement date. Furthermore, a transaction counterparty may fail to 14 Table of Contents deliver the underlying Agency RMBS at the settlement date. If any of the above risks were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. An increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our assets may impair our profitability and thus our cash available for distributions to our stockholders. As our repurchase agreements and other short term borrowings mature, we must either enter into new borrowings or liquidate certain of our investments at times when we might not otherwise choose to do so. Lenders may seek to use a maturity date as an opportune time to demand additional terms or increased collateral requirements that could be adverse to us and harm our operations. An increase in short term interest rates when we seek new borrowings would reduce the spread between our returns on our assets and the cost of our borrowings. This would reduce the returns on our assets, which might reduce earnings and in turn cash available for distributions to our stockholders. We generally expect that the interest rates tied to our borrowings will adjust more rapidly than the interest rates tied to the assets in which we invest. We are dependent on our key personnel and the loss of such key personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We are dependent on the efforts of our key officers and employees, including Kevin E. Grant, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Investment Officer. Although we have an employment agreement with him, we cannot assure he will remain employed with us. The loss of Mr. Grant’s services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make. We compete with other REITs, financial companies, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial finance companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Several other REITs have recently raised, or are expected to raise, significant amounts of capital, and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create competition for investment opportunities. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage future growth effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives will depend on our ability to grow, which will depend, in turn, on our ability to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis will largely be a function of our ability to structure and implement the investment process and our access to financing on acceptable terms. In order to grow, we need to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees successfully. However, we can offer no assurance that any of those employees will contribute substantial value to us. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We may change our investment strategy and asset allocation without notice or stockholder consent, which may result in riskier investments. Our board of directors has the authority to change our investment strategy or asset allocation at any time without notice to or consent from our stockholders. In 2008, our board of directors amended our investment guidelines to require that we invest exclusively in Agency RMBS. In 2010, our board of directors modified our investment guidelines to permit investments in CMOs. To the extent that our investment strategy changes in the future, we may make investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described in this annual report on Form 10-K. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and real estate market fluctuations. Furthermore, a change in our asset allocation could result in our allocating assets in a different manner than as described in this annual report on Form 10-K. Our board of directors does not approve each of our investment decisions. Our directors periodically review our investment guidelines and our investment portfolio. However, our board of directors does not review all of our proposed investments. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, the directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by our management. Furthermore, transactions entered into or structured for us by our management may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by the directors. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or a clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they are not currently traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction most likely will result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. In addition, we may not always be able to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to unexpected economic losses in the future. Swaps, caps and certain options and other custom instruments are subject to the risk of non-performance by the counterparty, including risks relating to the creditworthiness of the counterparty. In addition, we also are subject to the risk of the failure of any of the exchanges or clearing houses on which we trade. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we may enter into interest rate swaps and caps. Swap and cap agreements can be individually negotiated and structured to include exposure to a variety of different types of investments or market factors. Depending on their structure, swap and cap agreements may increase or decrease exposure to long term or short term interest rates (in the United States or abroad), foreign currency values, mortgage securities, corporate borrowing rates, or other factors such as security prices, baskets of equity securities, or inflation rates. Swap agreements can take many different forms and are known by a variety of names. We are not precluded from any particular form of swap or option agreement if we determine it is consistent with our investment objectives and policies. 16 Table of Contents Swap and cap agreements tend to shift investment exposure from one type of investment to another. Depending on how they are used, swap and cap agreements may increase or decrease the overall volatility of our portfolio. The most significant factor in the performance of swap agreements is the change in the specific interest rate, currency, individual equity values or other factors that determine the amounts of payments due to and from us. If a swap agreement calls for payments or collateral transfers by us, we must be prepared to make such payments and transfers when due. Additionally, if a counterparty’s creditworthiness declines, the value of swap agreements with the counterparty can be expected to decline, potentially resulting in losses by us. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and certain commodity exchanges have established limits referred to as speculative position limits or position limits on the maximum net long or net short position that any person or group of persons may hold or control in particular futures and options. Limits on trading in options contracts also have been established by the various options exchanges. It is possible that trading decisions may have to be modified and that positions held may have to be liquidated to avoid exceeding such limits. Such modification or liquidation, if required, could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, such as the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by any event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the derivative contract. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open derivative positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These potential payments will be contingent liabilities and therefore may not appear on our balance sheet. The economic losses will be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time. The need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. We are highly dependent on communications and information systems operated by third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems that allow us to monitor, value, buy, sell, finance and hedge our investments. These systems are primarily operated by third parties and, as a result, we have limited ability to ensure their continued operation. In the event of systems failure or interruption, we will have limited ability to affect the timing and success of systems restoration. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including Agency RMBS trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our investments in subordinated tranches of CLOs may be subject to losses and the assets collateralizing such CLOs subject us to specific risks that could adversely affect our operating results. We have invested a small portion of our total assets in lower-rated or non-rated deeply subordinated tranches of CLOs collateralized primarily by corporate leveraged loans, and to a lesser extent, by corporate debt securities. Leveraged loans can be illiquid and are subject to price volatility. To the extent that they are non-investment grade, they may also bear risks associated with high-yield bonds. In general, losses on a loan or other asset included in a securitization will be borne first by equity support, a cash reserve fund or a letter of credit, if any, and then by the subordinated security holders. In the event of nonpayment on the loan or other asset and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest, we will not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchased. In addition, if the underlying asset portfolio sustains losses, or if the value of the underlying collateral declines and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy payments due on the related CLO, then payments to us as subordinated holders of the CLO could be reduced or halted, or we could sustain losses in our investment. In addition, failure to adequately manage a CLO could result in, among other things, mistimed collateral sales and 17 Table of Contents purchases, purchasing underperforming collateral, and inadequate cash flow processing, all of which could negatively affect the performance of the CLO. As a result, we could sustain losses and/or lose a portion, or potentially all, of our investment in CLOs, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, and business. CMOs may be subject to greater risks than whole-pool Agency RMBS. In March 2010, our board of directors amended our investment guidelines to allow us to invest in CMOs. CMOs are securitizations issued by a government agency or a government-sponsored entity that are collateralized by Agency RMBS that are divided into various tranches that have different characteristics (such as different maturities or different coupon payments), and, therefore, may carry greater risk than an investment in whole-pool Agency RMBS. For example, certain CMO tranches, such as interest-only securities, principal-only securities, support securities and securities purchased at a significant premium, are more sensitive to prepayment risks than other tranches or whole-pool Agency RMBS. In addition, the yield on floating rate and inverse floating rate tranches are sensitive to changes in the interest rate index used to calculate the coupon on such classes. If we were to invest in CMO tranches that were more sensitive to prepayment risks relative to other CMO tranches or whole-pool Agency RMBS, we may increase our portfolio-wide prepayment and interest rate risk. If we issue debt securities, our operations may be restricted and we will be exposed to additional risk. If we decide to issue debt securities in the future, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. We, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Holders of debt securities may be granted specific rights, including but not limited to, the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments, and rights to approve the sale of assets. Such additional restrictive covenants and operating restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may inhibit potential acquisition bids that you and other stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect and inhibit a change in our board of directors. These provisions include the following: There are ownership limits and restrictions on transferability and ownership in our charter. In order to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year after 2006, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”) to include natural persons and certain entities) during the second half of any calendar year and our shares must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of twelve months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. To assist us in meeting these requirements, subject to some exceptions, our charter generally prohibits any stockholder from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of any class or series of our outstanding capital stock unless an exemption is granted by our board of directors in its sole discretion. For purposes of this calculation, warrants treated as held by a person will be deemed to have been exercised. However, warrants held by other unrelated persons will not be deemed to have been exercised. 18 Table of Contents This ownership restriction may: • discourage a tender offer or other transactions or a change in the composition of our board of directors or control that might involve a premium price for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders; or • result in shares issued or transferred in violation of such restriction being automatically transferred to a trust for a charitable beneficiary and thereby resulting in a forfeiture of such shares. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue common or preferred stock with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our charter permits our board of directors to amend our charter, without approval of our stockholders, to increase the total number of authorized shares of stock or the number of shares of any class or series, and to cause the issuance of common or preferred stock, having preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption as determined by our board of directors. Thus, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of common or preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of our shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price of our shares. Our charter and bylaws contain other possible anti-takeover provisions. Our charter and bylaws contain other provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us or the removal of existing directors and, as a result, could prevent our stockholders from being paid a premium for their common stock over the then-prevailing market price. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, ( the “MGCL”), may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. We have elected to opt out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL, by resolution of our board of directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL, pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to repeal the foregoing opt-outs from the business combination provisions of the MGCL, and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. 19 Table of Contents Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests. Our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. We have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and executive officers that obligate us to indemnify them to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. In addition, our charter authorizes our company to obligate itself to indemnify our present and former directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, to indemnify each present or former director or officer who has been successful in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, laws or regulations, or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations, that impact our business and Maryland corporations may be amended. In addition, the markets for MBS and derivatives, including swaps, have been the subject of intense scrutiny in recent years. We cannot predict when or if any new law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted or promulgated or will become effective. Additionally, revisions in these laws, regulations or administrative interpretations could cause us to change our investments. We could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, law, regulation or administrative interpretation, which could reduce the market price of our common stock. Tax Risks Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of our common stock and would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We operate in a manner that is intended to cause us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, the federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Qualifying as a REIT requires us to meet various tests regarding the nature of our assets and our income, the ownership of our outstanding stock, and the amount of our distributions on an ongoing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Although we intend to operate so that we will qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will so qualify for any particular year. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any calendar year, we would be required to pay federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Further, if we 20 Table of Contents fail to qualify as a REIT, we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any resulting tax. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT was subject to relief under federal tax laws, we could not re-elect to qualify as a REIT until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify. Our ability to invest in and dispose of securities through forward settling transactions could be limited by our REIT status, and we could lose our REIT status as a result of these investments. We have purchased, and may purchase in the future, Agency RMBS through contracts for forward settling transactions, including where the pool is “to-be-announced” (“TBAs”). In certain instances, rather than take delivery of the Agency RMBS subject to a contract for a forward settling transaction, we will dispose of the contract for a forward settling transaction through a dollar roll transaction in which we agree to purchase similar securities in the future at a predetermined price or otherwise, which may result in the recognition of income or gains. We account for dollar roll transactions as purchases and sales. The law is unclear regarding whether contracts for forward settling transactions will be qualifying assets for the 75% asset test and whether income and gains from dispositions of contracts for forward settling transactions will be qualifying income for the 75% gross income test. Until such time as we seek and receive a favorable private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), or we are advised by counsel that contracts for forward settling transactions should be treated as qualifying assets for purposes of the 75% asset test, we will limit our net investment in contracts for forward settling transactions and any non-qualifying assets to no more than 25% of our assets at the end of any calendar quarter. Further, until such time as we seek and receive a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS or we are advised by counsel that income and gains from the disposition of contracts for forward settling transactions should be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, we will limit our gains from dispositions of contracts for forward settling transactions and any non-qualifying income to no more than 25% of our gross income for each calendar year. Accordingly, our ability to purchase Agency RMBS through contracts for forward settling transactions and to dispose of contracts for forward settling transactions, through dollar roll transactions or otherwise, could be limited. Moreover, even if we are advised by counsel that contracts for forward settling transactions should be treated as qualifying assets or that income and gains from dispositions of contracts for forward settling transactions should be treated as qualifying income, it is possible that the IRS could successfully take the position that such assets are not qualifying assets and such income is not qualifying income. In that event, we could be subject to a penalty tax or we could fail to qualify as a REIT if (i) the value of our contracts for forward settling transactions, together with our non-qualifying assets for the 75% asset test, exceeded 25% of our gross assets at the end of any calendar quarter or (ii) our income and gains from the disposition of contracts for forward settling transactions, together with our non-qualifying income for the 75% gross income test, exceeded 25% of our gross income for any taxable year. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego attractive business or investment opportunities. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. 21 Table of Contents Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT qualification. To qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, an entity must distribute to its stockholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that a REIT satisfies the 90% distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income, it will be subject to federal corporate income tax on its undistributed income. In addition, a REIT will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which its distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85% of its REIT ordinary income for that year; • 95% of its REIT capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% of its undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to continue to make distributions in the future to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both federal corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. However, there is no requirement that TRSs distribute their after-tax net income to their parent REIT or their stockholders, and if we utilize a TRS it may determine not to make any distributions to us. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on GAAP because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as phantom income. Although some types of phantom income are excluded in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid federal corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in that year. We may satisfy the 90% distribution test with taxable distributions of our stock or debt securities. The IRS has issued private letter rulings to other REITs treating certain distributions that are paid partly in cash and partly in stock as dividends that would satisfy the REIT annual distribution requirement and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for federal income tax purposes. Those rulings may be relied upon only by taxpayers to whom they were issued, but we could request a similar ruling from the IRS. In addition, the IRS previously issued a revenue procedure authorizing publicly traded REITs to make elective cash/stock dividends, but that revenue procedure does not apply to our 2012 and future taxable years. Accordingly, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to make taxable dividends payable in cash and stock. Although we have no current intention of paying dividends in our own stock, if in the future we choose to pay dividends in our own stock, our stockholders may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash that they receive. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code limit our ability to hedge Agency RMBS and related borrowings. Under these provisions, we must limit our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees, and certain other non-qualifying sources to 5% or less of our annual gross income. As a result, we might in the future have 22 Table of Contents to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a domestic TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities, because a domestic TRS would be subject to tax on gains, or leave us exposed to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. Withholding tax may apply to our dividends after December 31, 2013 and proceeds of sales in respect of our common stock after December 31, 2014. United States federal withholding tax at a 30% rate will apply to payments of dividends after December 31, 2013 and gross proceeds from sales of our stock after December 31, 2014 made to foreign financial institutions (and certain of their affiliates) unless the payee foreign financial institution agrees, among other things, to disclose the identity of certain United States persons and United States owned foreign entities with accounts at the institution (or the institution’s affiliates) and to annually report certain information about such accounts. The withholding tax also will apply to payments of dividends and gross proceeds of sales to certain foreign entities that do not disclose the name, address and taxpayer identification number of any substantial United States owners (or certify that they do not have any substantial United States owners). Thus, if a stockholder holds our shares through a foreign financial institution or foreign corporation or trust, dividends and gross proceeds of sales made after the applicable dates may be subject to a 30% withholding tax. Stockholders that are not United States persons may be subject to withholding tax on our dividends under current law. The taxation of corporate dividends may adversely affect the value of our stock. Legislation enacted in 2003, 2006 and 2010, among other things, generally reduces to 15% the maximum marginal rate of tax payable by taxpayers taxed at individual rates on dividends received from a regular C corporation until January 1, 2013. This reduced tax rate, however, will not apply to dividends paid by a REIT on its stock, except for certain limited amounts. While the earnings of a REIT that are distributed to its stockholders generally will still be subject to less federal income taxation than earnings of a non-REIT C corporation that are distributed to its stockholders net of corporate-level income tax, this legislation could cause taxpayers taxed at individual rates to view the stock of regular C corporations as more attractive relative to the stock of a REIT than was the case prior to the enactment of the legislation, because the dividends from regular C corporations will generally be taxed at a lower rate while dividends from REITs will generally be taxed at the same rate as the investor’s other ordinary income. We cannot predict what effect, if any, this legislation may have on the value of the stock of REITs in general or on the value of our common stock in particular, either in terms of price or relative to other investments. The failure of Agency RMBS subject to a repurchase agreement to qualify as real estate assets would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We have entered into sale and repurchase agreements under which we nominally sold certain of our Agency RMBS to a counterparty and simultaneously entered into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. We believe that we are treated for federal income tax purposes as the owner of the Agency RMBS that are the subject of any such agreement notwithstanding that such agreements may transfer record ownership of such assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could successfully assert that we did not own the Agency RMBS during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case we could fail to qualify as a REIT. We may lose our REIT qualification or be subject to a penalty tax if the IRS, successfully challenges our characterization of income from our investments in subordinated tranches of CLOs issued by foreign corporations. We likely will be required to include in our income, even without the receipt of actual distributions, earnings from our investment in the subordinated tranches of CLOs issued by foreign corporations. We intend to treat certain of these income inclusions as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test but not 23 Table of Contents the 75% gross income test. The provisions that set forth what income is qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test provide that gross income derived from dividends, interest and certain other enumerated classes of passive income qualify for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Income inclusions from equity investments in foreign corporations are technically neither actual dividends nor any of the other enumerated categories of income specified in the 95% gross income test for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, the IRS has issued private letter rulings to other REITs holding that income inclusions from equity investments in foreign corporations would be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Private letter rulings may be relied upon only by the taxpayers to whom they are issued, and the IRS may revoke a private letter ruling. Based on those private letter rulings and advice of counsel, we intend to treat such income inclusions as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Nevertheless, because this income does not meet the literal requirements of the REIT provisions, it is possible that the IRS could successfully take the position that such income is not qualifying income. In the event that such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we would be subject to a penalty tax with respect to such income to the extent it and any other non-qualifying income exceeds 5% of our gross income or we could fail to qualify as a REIT. In addition, if such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we would need to invest in sufficient qualifying assets, or sell some of our interests in other foreign corporations, to ensure that the income recognized by us from our investment in the subordinated tranches of CLOs issued by foreign corporations does not exceed 5% of our gross income, or we would cease to qualify as a REIT. We currently expect that our future income inclusions from our investment in subordinated tranches of CLOs issued by foreign corporations together with any nonqualifying income will not exceed 5% of our gross income, however, no assurance can be given that this will not change. If the CLO issuers in which we have invested are subject to federal income tax at the entity level, it would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to pay their creditors and to distribute to us. We have invested in subordinated tranches of CLOs which are treated as equity for federal income tax purposes. The CLO issuers in which we have invested will be treated as corporations for federal income tax purposes. The CLO issuers are organized in foreign countries. There is a specific exemption from federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees or through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We expect that the CLO issuers in which we have invested will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If the IRS were to succeed in challenging that tax treatment, it could greatly reduce the amount that those CLO issuers would have available to pay to their creditors and to distribute to us. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted or promulgated or will become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. Additionally, revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause us to change our investments and commitments and affect the tax considerations of an investment in us. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 