Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks as well as the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements, before investing in shares of our common stock. As indicated earlier in this annual report on Form 10-K under the title “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements,” certain information contained in this annual report are forward-looking statements. If any of the following events actually occur or risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow could be materially adversely affected and our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements in this annual report on Form 10-K. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. 19 Risks Relating to Our Business Information Division We depend on the economies and the demographics of our targeted sectors in the local and regional markets that we serve, and changes in those factors could have an adverse impact on our revenues, cash flows and profitability. Our advertising revenues and, to a lesser extent, circulation revenues depend upon a variety of factors specific to the legal, financial and real estate sectors of the 21 markets that our Business Information Division serves. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the population, including the number of companies and professionals in our targeted business sectors, and local economic conditions affecting these sectors. For example, if the local economy or targeted business sector in a market we serve experiences a downturn, display and classified advertising (which constituted 23.4%, 28.4% and 36.3% of our total revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively) generally decreases for our business information products that target such market or sector. Further, if the local economy in a market we serve experiences growth, public notices (which constituted 21.7%, 22.4%, and 26.8%)of our total revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, may decrease as a result of fewer foreclosure proceedings requiring the posting of public notices. If the level of advertising in our business information products or public notices in our court and commercial newspapers were to decrease, our revenues, cash flows and profitability could be adversely affected. A change in the laws governing public notice requirements may reduce or eliminate the amount of public notices required to be published in print, affect how newspapers are chosen for the publication of public notices or adversely change the eligibility requirements for publishing public notices, which could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and growth opportunities. In various states, legislatures have considered proposals that would eliminate or reduce the number of public notices required by statute. In addition, some state legislatures have proposed that state and local governments publish notices themselves online. The impetus for the passage of such laws may increase as online alternatives to print sources of information become increasingly familiar and more generally accepted. Some states have also proposed, enacted or interpreted laws to alter the frequency with which public notices are required to be published, reduce the amount of information required to be disclosed in public notices or change the requirements for publications to be eligible to publish public notices. For example, a court in Idaho ruled in June 2007 that Idaho’s public notice statute requires public notices to be published only in the newspaper with the largest circulation in a jurisdiction. Since that decision, we have stopped publishing the small amount of public notices that we have historically published in our Idaho Business Review. Any changes in laws that materially reduce the amount or frequency of public notices required to be published in print or that adversely change the eligibility requirements for publishing public notices in states where we publish or intend to publish court and commercial newspapers would adversely affect our public notice revenues and could adversely affect our ability to differentiate our business information products, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues, profitability and growth opportunities. If we are unable to compete effectively with other companies in the local media industry, our revenues and profitability may decline. We compete for display and classified advertising and circulation with at least one metropolitan daily newspaper in all of the markets we serve and one local business journal in many of the markets we serve. Display and classified advertising constituted 41.8%, 43.0% and 42.3% of our Business Information Division’s revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and paid circulation constituted 16.0%, 18.4% and 20.8% of our Business Information Division’s revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Generally, we compete for these forms of advertising and circulation on the basis of how efficiently and effectively we can reach an advertiser’s target audience and the quality and tailored nature of our proprietary content. If the number of subscriptions to our paid publications were to decrease, our circulation revenues would decline to the extent we are not able to continue increasing our subscription rates. For example, subscriptions to our paid publications and circulation revenues decreased over the last three years primarily due to the loss of subscribers to our paid publications, such as LawyersUSA, for which we terminated discounted subscription 20 programs. A continued decrease in our subscribers might also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain advertisers due to reduced readership. Our local and regional competitors vary from market to market and many of our competitors for advertising revenues are larger and have greater financial and distribution resources than we do. In the future, we may be required to spend more money, or to reduce our advertising or subscription rates, to attract and retain advertisers and subscribers. We may also experience a decline of circulation or print advertising revenue due to alternative media, such as the Internet. For example, as the use of the Internet has increased, we may lose some classified advertising to online advertising businesses and some subscribers to our free Internet sites that contain abbreviated versions of our publications. If we are not able to compete effectively for advertising expenditures and paid circulation, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. Our business and reputation could suffer if third-party providers of printing and delivery services that we rely upon fail to perform satisfactorily. We outsource a significant amount of our printing to third-party printing companies. As a result, we are unable to ensure directly that the final printed product is of a quality acceptable to our subscribers. Moreover, if these third-party printers do not perform their services satisfactorily or if they decide not to continue to provide these services to us on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to provide timely and dependable business information products could be adversely affected. In addition, we could face increased costs or delays if we must identify and retain other third-party printers. Most of our print publications are delivered to our subscribers by the U.S. Postal Service. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in the delivery of our print publications by the U.S. Postal Service. To the extent we try to avoid these delays by using third-party carriers other than the U.S. Postal Service to deliver our print products, we will incur increased operating costs. In addition, timely delivery of our publications is extremely important to many of our advertisers, public notice publishers and subscribers. Any delays in delivery of our print publications to our subscribers could negatively affect our reputation, cause us to lose advertisers, public notice publishers and subscribers and limit our ability to attract new advertisers, public notice publishers and subscribers. If our Business Information operations in certain states where we generate a significant portion of that operating division’s revenues are not as successful in the future, our operating results could be adversely affected. We derived 11.4% and 13.6% of our Business Information Division’s revenues in 2007 and 2006, respectively, from the business information products that we target to the Maryland market. Specifically, one of our paid publications, The Daily Record in Maryland, accounted for over 10% of our Business Information Division’s revenues in 2007 and 2006. In addition, revenues from publications targeting the Massachusetts and Missouri markets each accounted for more than 10% of our Business Information revenues in 2007. Therefore, our operating results could be adversely affected if our Business Information operations in the Maryland, Massachusetts or Missouri markets are not as successful in the future, whether as a result of a loss of subscribers to our paid publications (in particular, The Daily Record in Maryland, and our Lawyers Weekly publications in Massachusetts and Missouri) that serve those markets, a decrease in public notices or advertisements placed in these publications or a decrease in productivity at our Baltimore, Maryland printing facility. Productivity at our Baltimore printing facility could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including damage to the facility because of an accident, natural disaster or similar event, any mechanical failure with respect to the equipment at the facility or a work stoppage at the facility in connection with a disagreement with the labor union that represents approximately 22% of the employees at the facility. A key component of our operating income and operating cash flows has been, and may continue to be, our minority equity investment in a Michigan publishing company. We own 35.0% of the membership interests in Detroit Legal News Publishing, LLC, or DLNP, the publisher of Detroit Legal News and nine other publications in Michigan. We account for our investment in DLNP using the equity method, and our share of DLNP’s net income was $5.4 million and $2.7 million, or 21 16.8% and 12.6% of our total operating income, in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our share of DLNP’s net income is net of amortization expense of $1.5 million in both years. In addition, we received an aggregate of $5.6 million and $3.5 million from DLNP, or 20.5% and 19.1% of our net cash provided by operating activities, in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. If DLNP’s operations, which we have limited rights to influence, are not as successful in the future, our operating income and cash flows may be adversely affected. For example, a decrease in residential mortgage foreclosures in Michigan would adversely affect DLNP’s public notice revenue, which could decrease the net income of DLNP in which we share. Government regulations related to the Internet could increase our cost of doing business, affect our ability to grow or may otherwise negatively affect our business. Governmental agencies and federal and state legislatures have adopted, and may continue to adopt, new laws and regulatory practices in response to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and other on-line services. These new laws may be related to issues such as on-line privacy, copyrights, trademarks and service mark, sales taxes, fair business practices, domain name ownership and the requirement that our operating units register to do business as foreign entities or otherwise be licensed to do business in jurisdictions where they have no physical location or other presence. In addition, these new laws, regulations or interpretations relating to doing business through the Internet could increase our costs materially and adversely affect the revenues and results of operations in our Business Information Division. If we are unable to generate traffic to our on-line publications and other web sites and electronic services, our ability to continue to grow our Business Information Division may be negatively affected. We have devoted, and expect to devote, a significant amount of resources to distributing the information we provide through the Internet, web sites, electronic mail and other on-line services and the growth of our Business Information Division depends upon our ability to effectively use these methods to provide information to our customers. For these methods to be successful, we will need to attract and retain frequent visitors to our web sites or users of our other electronic services, develop and expand the content, products and other tools that we offer on our web sites and through other electronic services, attract advertisers to our web sites and other electronic services and continue to develop and upgrade our technologies. If we are not successful in our efforts, our Business Information revenues and results of operations and our ability to grow this division will be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Professional Services Division We have owned and operated the businesses within our Professional Services Division for only a short period of time. Our Professional Services Division consists of American Processing Company, LLC, or APC, and Counsel Press, LLC, or Counsel Press. We acquired APC, our mortgage default processing service business, in March 2006 and currently own 88.9% of the outstanding membership interests of APC. APC Investments, LLC, a limited liability company owned by the shareholders of our law firm customer, Trott & Trott, including APC’s president, David A. Trott, owns 9.1% of the outstanding membership interest of APC and another law firm customer, Feiwell & Hannoy, owns 2.0% of the outstanding membership interests of APC. We acquired Counsel Press, our appellate services business, in January 2005. Prior to our acquisition of these businesses, our executive officers, with the exception of Mr. Trott had not managed or operated a mortgage default processing or an appellate services business. Mr. Trott, in addition to being President of APC, is also managing attorney of Trott & Trott, and accordingly does not devote his full time and effort to APC. If our executive officers cannot effectively manage and operate these businesses, our Professional Services Division’s operating results and prospects may be adversely affected and we may not be able to execute our growth strategy with respect to this division. 22 David A. Trott, the President of APC, and certain other employees of APC, who are also shareholders and principal attorneys of our law firm customers, may under certain circumstances have interests that differ from or conflict with our interests. APC’s President, David A. Trott, its four executive vice presidents and its two senior executives in Indiana are the principal attorneys and shareholders of APC’s three law firm customers. Mr. Trott, APC’s two of APC’s four executive vice presidents and APC’s two senior executives in Indiana indirectly own an interest in APC, through their respective ownership in APC Investments, LLC and Feiwell & Hannoy. Prior to February 1, 2008, Trott & Trott owned APC Investments’ interest in APC. As a result of these relationships with APC and our law firm customers, Mr. Trott and APC’s executive vice presidents and senior executives in Indiana may experience conflicts of interest in the execution of their duties on behalf of us. These conflicts may not be resolved in a manner favorable to us. For example, they may be precluded by their ethical obligations as attorneys or may otherwise be reluctant to take actions on behalf of us that are in our best interests, but are not or may not be in the best interests of their law firms or their clients. Further, as licensed attorneys, they may be obligated to take actions on behalf of their law firms or their respective clients that are not in our best interests. In addition, Mr. Trott has other direct and indirect relationships with DLNP and APC that could cause similar conflicts. See “Related Party Transactions and Policies — David A. Trott” in our proxy statement and Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for a description of these relationships. If the number of case files referred to us by our three current mortgage default processing service customers decreases or fails to increase, our operating results and ability to execute our growth strategy could be adversely affected. During 2007, Trott & Trott and Feiwell & Hannoy were the only customers of APC, our mortgage default processing services business, which constituted 77.4% and 65.3% of our Professional Services Division’s revenues in 2007 and 2006, respectively, and 34.1% and 22.1% of our total revenues in 2007 and 2006, respectively. In February 2008, we entered into a fifteen year exclusive services agreement with a Minnesota law firm, Wilford & Geske. Accordingly, we currently have three customers. We are paid different fixed fees for each foreclosure, bankruptcy, eviction litigation, and other mortgage default related case file referred by these three firms to us for the provision of processing services. Therefore, the success of our mortgage default processing services business is tied to the number of these case files that each of our law firm customers receives from their mortgage lending and mortgage loan servicing firm clients. In 2007, the top ten clients for Trott & Trott and Feiwell & Hannoy, on an aggregated basis, accounted for over 65% of the case files referred to us for mortgage default and other processing services. Some or all of these top ten clients are also clients of Wilford & Geske, who became APC’s customer in February 2008. Our operating results and ability to execute our growth strategy could be adversely affected if any of the following, occur: (1) any of our three law firm customers lose business from these clients; (2) if these clients are affected by changes in the market and industry or other factors that cause them to be unable to pay for the services of our law firm customer; or (3) if our law firm customers are unable to attract additional business from current or new clients for any reason, including any of the following: the provision of poor legal services, the loss of key attorneys (such as David A. Trott, who has developed and maintains a substantial amount of Trott & Trott’s client relationships), the desire of the law firm’s clients to allocate files among several law firms or a decrease in the number of residential mortgage foreclosures in the three states we do business, including due to market factors or governmental action. A failure by one or more of our law firm customers to pay us as a result of these factors could materially reduce the cash flow of our APC operation and result in losses in that operating unit. Please refer to the risk factors immediately below for more information about governmental or other voluntary action on the part of the clients of our law firm customers that could negatively affect APC. Further, we could lose referrals from our law firm customers to the extent that Trott & Trott’s clients direct it to use another provider of mortgage default processing services or the clients of our law firm customers increase the amount of mortgage default processing services that they conduct in-house, and we could lose any law firm customer if we materially breach our services agreements with such customer. 23 Regulation of the legal profession may constrain APC’s and Counsel Press’ operations, and numerous issues arising out of that regulation, its interpretation or its evolution could impair our ability to provide professional services to our customers and reduce our revenues and profitability. Each state has adopted laws, regulations and codes of ethics that provide for the licensure of attorneys, which grants attorneys the exclusive right to practice law and places restrictions upon the activities of licensed attorneys. The boundaries of the “practice of law,” however, are indistinct, vary from one state to another and are the product of complex interactions among state law, bar associations and constitutional law formulated by the U.S. Supreme Court. Many states define the practice of law to include the giving of advice and opinions regarding another person’s legal rights, the preparation of legal documents or the preparation of court documents for another person. In addition, all states and the American Bar Association prohibit attorneys from sharing fees for legal services with non-attorneys. Pursuant to services agreements between APC and its three law firm customers, we provide mortgage default processing services. Through Counsel Press, we provide procedural and technical advice to law firms and attorneys to enable them to file appellate briefs, records and appendices on behalf of their clients that comply with court rules. Current laws, regulations and codes of ethics related to the practice of law pose the following principal risks: • State or local bar associations, state or local prosecutors or other persons may challenge the services provided by APC or Counsel Press as constituting the unauthorized practice of law. Any such challenge could have a disruptive effect upon the operations of our business, including the diversion of significant time and attention of our senior management. We may also incur significant expenses in connection with such a challenge, including substantial fees for attorneys and other professional advisors. If a challenge to APC’s or Counsel Press’ operations were successful, we may need to materially modify our professional services operations in a manner that could adversely affect that division’s revenues and profitability and we could be subject to a range of penalties that could damage our reputation in the legal markets we serve. In addition, any similar challenge to the operations of APC’s law firm customers could adversely impact their mortgage default business, which would in turn adversely affect our Professional Service Division’s revenues and profitability; and • The services agreements to which APC is a party could be deemed to be unenforceable if a court were to determine that such agreements constituted an impermissible fee sharing arrangement between the law firm and APC. Applicable laws, regulations and codes of ethics, including their interpretation and enforcement, could change in a manner that restricts APC’s or Counsel Press’ operations. Any such change in laws, policies or practices could increase our cost of doing business or adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Regulation of sub-prime, Alt-A and other non-traditional mortgage products, including voluntary programs such as Project Lifeline, and the Hope Now Alliance, a consortium that develops foreclosure relief programs, may have an adverse affect on or restrict our operations. The prevalence of sub-prime, Alt-A and other non-traditional mortgage products and the increasing number of defaults and delinquencies in connection with those mortgages may result in new or increased government regulation of those products. If new or more stringent regulations are enacted, the clients of APC’s law firm customers would likely be subject to these regulations and these new or more stringent regulations may adversely impact the number of mortgage default files that our law firm customers receive from their clients and can then refer to us for processing. For example, on March 4, 2008, a new bill was introduced in Michigan, which if it passes, would place a one year moratorium on all foreclosures in Michigan. In Minnesota, another state where APC does business, the Minnesota legislature is considering a bill, which would allow homeowners with subprime mortgages to reduce their monthly mortgage payments, deferring the balance of the reduced payments for twelve months. Further, a number of loan servicers, including clients of our law firm customers, are members of the Hope Now Alliance, a consortium of loan servicers, non-profit debt counselors and investors that develops and 24 implements programs to assist homeowners in preventing a foreclosure of their mortgages. Project Lifeline is one such program. Under Project Lifeline, six loan servicers, representing approximately 50% of all existing mortgages, are contacting certain delinquent homeowners to evaluate whether to modify the terms of their loans and, if the foreclosure process has already begun, with the opportunity to “pause” the foreclosure while the servicers evaluate whether the loan’s terms may be modified. Five of the six loan servicers participating in Project Lifeline accounted for 51.6% of the mortgage default files referred to us for processing from our law firm customers in 2007. We cannot be certain whether Project Lifeline and programs like it will be successful in preventing foreclosures and restructuring loans. If Project Lifeline and similar programs are successful, we expect there will be fewer foreclosures and that the number of files that our law firm customers can refer to us for processing will likely decrease, which would negatively affect our revenues, growth and operations. In addition, mortgage companies and loan servicers and others over whom we have no control may voluntarily restructure or reevaluate existing loans or loan products, which could effect the number of loans in default and, consequently, the number of files referred to us for mortgage default processing. Failure to effectively customize our proprietary case management software system so that it can be used to serve law firm customers in new states could adversely affect our mortgage default processing service business and growth prospects. Our proprietary case management software system stores, manages and reports on the large amount of data associated with each foreclosure, bankruptcy or eviction case file. We built this system for use in Michigan, which is primarily a non-judicial foreclosure state. Other states, like Indiana, are judicial foreclosures states. As a result, our law firm customers must satisfy different requirements depending on the state in which they serve their clients. When we enter a service agreement with a law firm customer in a state where we do not currently do business, we will need to customize our proprietary case management software system so that it can be used to assist that customer in satisfying the foreclosure requirements of their state. If we are not, on a timely basis, able to effectively customize our case management software system to serve our new law firm customers, we may not be able to realize the operational efficiencies and increased capacity to handle files that we anticipated when we entered the service agreements. At times, we base the fees we agree to receive from these law firm customers for each case file they refer to us on the assumption that we would realize those operational efficiencies. Therefore, the failure to effectively customize our case management software system could impact our profitability under our services agreement with new law firm customers. Claims, even if not valid, that our case management software system, document conversion system or other proprietary software products and information systems infringe on the intellectual property rights of others could increase our expenses or inhibit us from offering certain services. Other persons could claim that they have patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect our use of software products and other components of information systems on which we rely to operate our business, including our proprietary case management software system we use to provide mortgage default processing services and our proprietary document conversion system we use to provide appellate services. Litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of third-party rights or to defend against claims of infringement. Any litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If a court determines that one or more of the software products or other components of information systems we use infringes on intellectual property owned by others or we agree to settle such a dispute, we may be liable for money damages. In addition, we may be required to cease using those products and components unless we obtain licenses from the owners of the intellectual property or redesign those products and components in such a way as to avoid infringement. In any event, such situations may increase our expenses or adversely affect the marketability of our services. 25 Risks Relating to Our Business in General We depend on key personnel and we may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any of our key personnel or are unable to attract qualified personnel in the future. We rely heavily on our senior management team, including James P. Dolan, our founder, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Scott J. Pollei, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; David A. Trott, President of APC; and Mark W.C. Stodder, our Executive Vice President, Business Information, because they have a unique understanding of our diverse product and service offerings and the ability to manage an organization that has a diverse group of employees. Our ability to retain Messrs. Dolan, Pollei, Trott and Stodder and other key personnel is therefore very important to our future success. In addition, we rely on our senior management, especially Mr. Dolan, to identify growth opportunities through the development or acquisition of additional publications and professional services opportunities. We have employment agreements with Messrs. Dolan, Pollei, Trott and Stodder. These employment agreements, however, do not ensure that Messrs. Dolan, Pollei, Trott and Stodder will not voluntarily terminate their employment with us. Further, we do not have employment agreements with other key personnel. In addition, our key personnel, including our other executive officers, are subject to non-competition restrictions, which generally restrict such employees from working for competing businesses for a period of one year after the end of their employment with us. These noncompete provisions, however may not be enforceable. We also do not have key man insurance for any of our current management or other key personnel. The loss of any key personnel would require the remaining key personnel to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Competition for senior management personnel is intense. An inability to find a suitable replacement for any departing executive officer or key employee on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. We intend to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities, which we may not do successfully and may subject us to considerable business and financial risk. We have grown, and anticipate that we will continue to grow, through opportunistic acquisitions of business information and professional services businesses. While we evaluate potential acquisitions on an ongoing basis, we may not be successful in assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of acquisition opportunities or consummating acquisitions on acceptable terms. Furthermore, we may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities and suitable acquisition opportunities may not even be made available or known to us. In addition, we may compete for certain acquisition targets with companies that have greater financial resources than we do. Our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities may also be limited by non-competition provisions to which we are subject. For example, until August 2008, our ability to provide data, public records, electronic data and information within North America with respect to bankruptcy case filings, Uniform Commercial Code financing statements, tax liens, attorney liens, certain monetary judgments and tenant evictions is limited by non-competition provisions that we agreed to when our predecessor sold its national public records unit. In addition, our ability to carry public notices in Michigan and to provide mortgage default processing services in Indiana and Minnesota is limited by non-competition provisions to which we agreed when we purchased a 35.0% membership interest in DLNP and the mortgage default processing service business of Feiwell & Hannoy and Wilford & Geske. We anticipate financing future acquisitions through cash provided by operating activities, borrowings under our bank credit facility or other debt or equity financing, which would reduce our cash available for other purposes. Acquisitions may expose us to particular business and financial risks that include, but are not limited to: • diverting management’s time, attention and resources from managing our business; • incurring additional indebtedness and assuming liabilities; • incurring significant additional capital expenditures and operating expenses to improve, coordinate or integrate managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems; 26 • experiencing an adverse impact on our earnings from non-recurring acquisition-related charges or the write-off or amortization of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets; • failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • facing operational difficulties in new markets or with new product or service offerings; and • failing to retain key personnel and customers of the acquired businesses, including subscribers and advertisers for acquired publications and clients of the law firm customers served by acquired mortgage default processing businesses. We may not be able to successfully manage acquired businesses or increase our cash flow from these operations. If we are unable to successfully implement our acquisition strategy or address the risks associated with acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired, we may fail to achieve acquisition synergies and we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than other profitable areas. We may have difficulty managing our growth, which may result in operating inefficiencies and negatively impact our operating margins. Our growth may place a significant strain on our management and operations, especially as we continue to expand our product and service offerings, the number of markets we serve and the number of local offices we maintain throughout the United States, including through acquiring new businesses. We may not be able to manage our growth on a timely or cost effective basis or accurately predict the timing or rate of this growth. We believe that our current and anticipated growth will require us to continue implementing new and enhanced systems, expanding and upgrading our data processing software and training our personnel to utilize these systems and software. Our growth has also required, and will continue to require, that we increase our investment in management personnel, financial and management systems and controls and office facilities. In particular, we are, and will continue to be, highly dependent on the effective and reliable operation of our centralized accounting, circulation and information systems. In addition, the scope of procedures for assuring compliance with applicable rules and regulations has changed as the size and complexity of our business has changed. If we fail to manage these and other growth requirements successfully or if we are unable to implement or maintain our centralized systems, or rely on their output, we may experience operating inefficiencies or not achieve anticipated efficiencies. For example, in 2007, we experienced difficulties in transitioning from our legacy circulation systems to our new circulation system that hampered our ability to efficiently keep track of information related to subscriptions for our business information products. In addition, the increased costs associated with our expected growth may not be offset by corresponding increases in our revenues, which would decrease our operating margins. We rely on our proprietary case management software system, document conversion systems, web sites and on-line networks, and a disruption, failure or security compromise of these systems may disrupt our business, damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our proprietary case management software system is critical to our mortgage default processing service business because it enables us to efficiently and timely service a large number of foreclosure, bankruptcy, eviction and, to a lesser extent, litigation and other mortgage default related case files. Our appellate services business relies on our proprietary document conversion systems that facilitate our efficient processing of appellate briefs, records and appendices. Similarly, we rely on our web sites and email notification systems to provide timely, relevant and dependable business information to our customers. Therefore, network or system shutdowns caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural disasters and similar events, could have an adverse impact on our operations, customer satisfaction and revenues due to degradation of service, service disruption or damage to equipment and data. 27 In addition to shutdowns, our systems are subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information, including sensitive case file data maintained in our proprietary case management system and credit card information for our business information customers. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, the potential misuse of such information and legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection and security of personal information, information-related risks are increasing, particularly for businesses like ours that handle a large amount of personal data. Disruptions or security compromises of our systems could result in large expenditures to repair or replace such systems, remedy any security breaches and protect us from similar events in the future. We also could be exposed to negligence claims or other legal proceedings brought by our customers or their clients, and we could incur significant legal expenses and our management’s attention may be diverted from our operations in defending ourselves against and resolving lawsuits or claims. In addition, if we were to suffer damage to our reputation as a result of any system failure or security compromise, the clients of our law firm customers to which we provide mortgage default processing services could choose to send fewer foreclosure, bankruptcy or eviction case files to our customers. Any reduction in the number of case files handled by our customers would also reduce the number of mortgage default case files serviced by us. Similarly, our appellate services clients may elect to use other service providers. In addition, customers of our Business Information Division may seek out alternative sources of the business information available on our web sites and email notification systems. Further, in the event that any disruption or security compromise constituted a material breach under our services agreements, our law firm customers could terminate these agreements. In any of these cases, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. We may be required to incur additional indebtedness or raise additional capital to fund our operations and acquisitions or repay our indebtedness. We may not generate a sufficient amount of cash from our operations to finance growth opportunities, including acquisitions, or fund our operations, including payments on our indebtedness and unanticipated capital expenditures. Our ability to pursue any material expansion of our business, including through acquisitions or increased capital spending, will likely depend on our ability to obtain third-party financing. This financing may not be available to us at all or at an acceptable cost. In addition, if we issue a significant amount of additional equity securities, the market price of our common stock could decline and our stockholders could suffer significant dilution of their interests in us. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time and resources to various compliance issues; if we do not address these compliance issues successfully, our stock price could be adversely impacted. As a result of the consummation of our initial public offering on August 7, 2007, we became subject to reporting, corporate governance and other obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange. For example, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will require annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by our independent auditors on our internal control over financial reporting beginning with the year ending December 31, 2008. These reporting and other obligations have placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, administrative, operational and accounting resources, especially if we have to design and implement enhanced processes and controls to address any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that are identified by us or our independent auditors. We will also incur substantial additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company to comply with these requirements. These regulations may also make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified members for our board of directors and its various committees. Any failure to comply with these regulations, including if we fail to account for transactions and report information to our investors on a timely and accurate basis, or to otherwise be able to conclude in a timely manner that our internal control over 28 financial reporting is operating effectively, could decrease investor confidence in our public disclosure, impair our ability to obtain financing when needed or have an adverse effect on our stock price. We have incurred in the past, and may incur in the future, net losses. We incurred net losses of $(54.0) million, $(20.3) million, and $(7.5) million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These net losses were attributable to our non-cash interest expense related to redeemable preferred stock of $66.1 million, $28.5 million and $10.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. We do not expect to incur non-cash interest expense for periods after August 7, 2007 because we used a portion of the net proceeds of our initial public offering to redeem our preferred stock and do not anticipate issuing preferred stock in the future on terms that would require us to record a non-cash interest expense. However, we expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our operations. If our operating expenses exceed our expectations, whether because we are unable to realize the anticipated operational efficiencies from centralization of acquired accounting, circulation, advertising, production and appellate and default processing systems in a timely manner following future expansions or for other reasons, or if our revenues do not grow to offset these increased expenses, we may continue to incur net losses in the future. We are subject to risks relating to litigation due to the nature of our product and service offerings. We may, from time to time, be subject to or named as a party in libel actions, negligence claims, and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business given the editorial content of our business information products and the technical rules with which our appellate services and mortgage default processing businesses must comply and the strict deadlines these businesses must meet. We could incur significant legal expenses and our management’s attention may be diverted from our operations in defending ourselves against and resolving lawsuits or claims. An adverse resolution of any future lawsuits or claims against us could result in a negative perception of us and cause the market price of our common stock to decline or otherwise have an adverse effect on our operating results and growth prospects. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained on our debt instruments could result in an event of default that could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to operate our business as planned. We have, and will continue to have, significant debt and debt service obligations. Our credit agreement contains, and any agreements to refinance our debt likely will contain, financial and restrictive covenants that limit our ability to incur additional debt, including to finance future operations or other capital needs, and to engage in other activities that we may believe are in our long-term best interests, including to dispose of or acquire assets. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the banks accelerating the maturity of our indebtedness or preventing us from accessing availability under our credit facility. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient cash resources to satisfy our debt obligations and we may not be able to continue our operations as planned. In addition, the indebtedness under our credit agreement is secured by a security interest in substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets, including the equity interests of our subsidiaries, and therefore, if we are unable to repay such indebtedness, the banks could foreclose on these assets and sell the pledged equity interests, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We may be required to incur additional indebtedness if either of the two minority members of APC exercises its put right with respect to its membership interest in APC. Under the terms of APC’s operating agreement (as amended and restated), the two minority members of APC have the right, within six months after August 7, 2009, to require APC to repurchase all or any portion of their membership interests in APC (currently 11.1%). We will incur additional indebtedness in the future if either minority member of APC exercises its put right because the purchase price paid by APC in connection with any such repurchase would be in the form of a three-year unsecured note. The principal amount of the note would be equal to (x) 6.25 times APC’s trailing twelve month EBITDA, less the aggregate amount of any interest-bearing indebtedness of APC as of the repurchase date, multiplied by (y) such minority member’s 29 percentage ownership interest in APC. Such note would bear interest at a rate equal to prime plus 2%. If we are required to incur this additional indebtedness, it could decrease the amount of working capital available to fund our operations, which could impair our ability to operate and grow our business as planned. We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights, particularly those in our Business Information Division. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States to protect our rights to the marks “DOLAN MEDIA COMPANY,” and “DOLAN MEDIA,” as well as distinctive logos and other marks associated with our print and on-line publications and services in our Professional Services Division. We cannot assure you that these measures will be adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights in the United States, or that third parties will not infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to use our trademarks and other proprietary rights for their similar uses. Our management’s attention may be diverted by these attempts and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. Third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the trademarks, copyright or other proprietary rights of that third party. Some third party proprietary rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid those intellectual property rights. Any such claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. Our general liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our classes or pay monetary damages, which may be significant. These risks are in addition to those risks that third parties may claim to have patents or other intellectual property rights in our proprietary case management software systems, document conversion systems and other proprietary software products that are used by the operating units in our Professional Services Divisions. These risks are more fully described earlier in the “Risks Relating to Business in General” section of this annual report on Form 10-K. Risks Associated with Purchasing Our Common Stock Our common stock has a limited trading history and the market price of our common stock may be volatile and will depend on a variety of factors, which could cause our common stock to trade at prices below the price you have paid. Our common stock has only traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “DM” since August 2, 2007. Since that time and through March 17, 2008, the closing sales price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $30.84 to a low of $17.23 per share. The market price of our common stock could also fluctuate significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could affect our share price include, but are not limited to: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in the legal or regulatory environment affecting our business; • changes in our earnings estimates or expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • the contents of published research reports about us or our industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock after this offering; 30 • additions or departures of key management personnel; • any increased indebtedness we may incur in the future; • announcements by us or others and developments affecting us; • actions by institutional stockholders; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • speculation or reports by the press or investment community with respect to us or our industry in general; and • general economic, market and political conditions. These factors could cause our common stock to trade at prices below the price you paid for our common stock, which could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above this price. In addition, the stock market in general, and the New York Stock Exchange in particular, has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of individual securities. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of publicly traded companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against that company. If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our operations. Future offerings of debt or equity securities by us may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or your rights as holders of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by offering debt or additional equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes, shares of preferred stock or shares of our common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of such debt securities and preferred shares, if issued, and lenders with respect to other borrowings, would receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the economic and voting rights of our existing stockholders and/or reduce the market price of our common stock. At December 31, 2007, we had an aggregate of 41,482,845 shares of common stock authorized but not issued and not reserved for issuance under our incentive compensation plan or employee stock purchase plan and 5,000,000 shares of authorized but unissued preferred stock. We may issue all of these shares without any action or approval by our stockholders. We intend to continue to actively pursue acquisitions and may issue shares of common stock in connection with these acquisitions. Further, we may issue additional equity interests in APC in connection with acquisitions of mortgage default processing service businesses. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Future sales of our common stock in the public market may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or our ability to raise additional capital. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or limit our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. Other than 149,481 restricted shares of common stock outstanding at March 17, 2008, all of the shares of our common stock not held by our “affiliates” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act are freely tradable. Shares held by our affiliates are subject to the volume, manner of sale, and notice restrictions of Rule 144. In addition, our certificate of incorporation permits the issuance of up to 70,000,000 shares of common stock. At December 31, 2007, we had an aggregate of 41,482,845 shares of our common stock authorized but unissued, exclusive of shares reserved for issuance under our equity compensation and employee stock purchase plan. Thus, we have the ability to issue substantial amounts of common stock in the future, which would dilute the percentage ownership held by current investors. 31 We filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act covering 2,700,000 shares of common stock that have been issued or will be issuable pursuant to our incentive compensation plan and 900,000 shares of common stock that will be issuable pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan, which in the aggregate equals 14.4% of the aggregate number of shares of our common stock that are outstanding as of March 17, 2008. Accordingly, subject to applicable vesting requirements, the exercise of options, the provisions of Rule 144 with respect to affiliates, and the six-month transfer restriction applicable to employees that purchase shares of our common stock under our employee stock purchase plan to the extent we implement it, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 will be available for sale in the open market. In addition, we have granted most of the persons who were stockholders prior to our initial public offering registration rights with respect to their shares of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that you may consider favorable or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock and your rights as a holder of our common stock. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws (1) permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock with rights and preferences designated by our board, (2) stagger the terms of our board of directors into three classes and (3) impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at stockholders’ meetings. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. In addition, our bank credit facility contains provisions that could limit our ability to enter into change of control transactions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 