ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this report, you should also consider the following risk factors in evaluating our prospects. Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have any operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to complete a business combination with an operating business. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when or if a business combination will occur in the time permitted by our certificate of incorporation. If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders will receive less than $8.00 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution to our public shareholders will be less than the initial offering price of $8.00 for the units. The per share liquidation value will be reduced from the initial $8.00 amount by the expenses of this offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. The per share liquidation value will be $7.92 per share, plus interest earned thereon (net of amounts released to us of up to $1,350,000 and net of taxes payable thereon). This amount includes the net proceeds of our offering and the private placement of the founding director warrants. It also includes $2,100,000 ($0.28 per share) of deferred underwriting discounts and commissions which are only payable to the underwriters if we consummate a business combination. We will pay, or reserve for payment, from funds not held in trust, our liabilities and obligations. In addition our executive officers, one of our directors and certain entities they control have agreed to indemnify us under certain circumstances for such liabilities and obligations to the extent necessary to insure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or the claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. However, if we fail to maintain a sufficient reserve for liabilities and our indemnifying officers, directors and entities they control cannot satisfy indemnification claims, we cannot assure you that stockholders will not be liable for such amounts to creditors to the extent of funds distributed by us to our stockholders. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. If the net proceeds not placed in trust together with the interest we may draw from the trust account are insufficient to allow us to operate until we are able to complete a business combination, we may be unable to complete a business combination. We believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account, including the up to $1,350,000 we may draw in interest, net of taxes, from the trust account, will be sufficient to allow us to operate until November 8, 2009. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. In addition, due to the recent low interest rate environment, we may not be able to draw the entire $1,350,000 of interest from the trust account because we have not earned that much interest. We could use a portion of the funds not placed in trust and the shareholder loans to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds not placed in trust as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. We may not be able to obtain additional loans from our officers and directors or any other party to fund our operations. We will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search for a target business or businesses and to complete our initial business combination. Of the net proceeds of our public offering, only approximately $150,000 was available to us initially outside of the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. We therefore will depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the additional working capital we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination. While we are entitled to have released to us for such purposes interest income of up to a maximum of $1,350,000, net of taxes, a substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our initial stockholders or others to operate or may be forced to liquidate. 7 Decreased returns from the Trust Account may make it difficult for us to fund our operating expenses prior to an acquisition transaction. Interest income from investments in treasury securities, such as the securities in which the Trust Account is invested, has decreased significantly in recent months. Our working capital is funded through interest received in the Trust Account, up to $1,350,000, and borrowings from affiliates. Since the interest payments from the Trust Account have decreased, we have received less interest income to fund our working capital needs. If interest rates do not increase, or if we are unable to find alternative financing, such as through loans from our initial shareholders or others, we may be unable to pay our operating expenses and be forced to liquidate. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of “blank check” companies. Since the net proceeds of our public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the US securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, stockholders will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, our units became immediately tradable and we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination than we would if we were subject to such rule. Current market conditions and the interests of our shareholders may make it difficult to complete an acquisition transaction. In recent months, volatility in the markets has made the completion of transactions in general, and a business acquisition by special purpose acquisition companies like us, more difficult. Potential target companies may be reluctant to enter into an agreement with us due to the decreased likelihood that the transaction would be approved by our shareholders in this market. In the event that we do enter into an agreement with a potential target, we may be unable to obtain shareholder approval due to the cash flow requirements or other interests of our shareholders. If we are unable to complete an acquisition transaction by November 8, 2009, we will be forced to liquidate the amounts in the Trust Account and distribute the proceeds to our shareholders. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. Based upon publicly available information, we have identified many similarly structured public acquisition companies that have gone public since August 2003. Of these companies, only a limited number have consummated a business combination. This may be an indication that there are only a limited number of attractive targets available to such entities or that many targets are not inclined to enter into a transaction with a public acquisition company, and therefore we also may not be able to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time period. If we are unable to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time period, which ends in November 2009, our purpose will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up. 8 If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced in which case the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders would be less than $7.92 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors and service providers we engage and prospective target businesses we negotiate with execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Nor is there any guarantee that, even if such entities execute such agreements with us, they will not seek recourse against the trust account. A court could also conclude that such agreements are not legally enforceable. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over those of our public stockholders, and we cannot assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust account, if we liquidate, will not be less than $7.92, plus interest, (net of (1) any taxes due on such interest income, which taxes, if any, shall be paid from the trust account and (2) up to $1,350,000 of interest income from the trust account, net of taxes, that may have been released to us to fund working capital requirements), due to such claims. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate, our executive officers, one of our directors and certain entities they control have jointly and severally agreed to reimburse us for our debts to vendors, or to any prospective target business, if we do not obtain a valid and enforceable waiver from that vendor or prospective target business of its rights or claims to the trust account and only to the extent necessary to ensure that such claims do not reduce the amount in the trust account. Based on the information provided to us in the director and officer questionnaires in connection with our offering as well as the representations as to their accredited investor status (as such term is defined in Regulation D), we currently believe that such persons are of substantial means and capable of funding their indemnity obligations, even though we have not asked them to reserve for such an eventuality. However, we cannot assure you that our indemnifying executive officers, director and the entities they control will be able to satisfy those obligations. In addition, our indemnifying executive officers, director and the entities they control have not agreed to reimburse us for any debts or obligations to vendors other than service fees (and related disbursements) or product purchase prices such as those relating to a potential tort claim. We believe the likelihood of our indemnifying executive officers, director, and the entities they control having to indemnify the trust account is limited because we intend to have all vendors and prospective target businesses as well as other entities execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claims of any kind in or to monies held in the trust account. In the event that we liquidate and it is subsequently determined that our reserve for claims and liabilities to third parties is insufficient, stockholders who received funds from our trust account could be liable for up to such amounts to creditors. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders at least $7.92 per share. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until 24 months from the date of the prospectus of our public offering. If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection thereto, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after the expiration of the 24 month period and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of such date. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after November 8, 2009, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. 9 An effective registration statement may not be in place when investors desire to exercise warrants, which would preclude investors from being able to exercise their warrants and cause such warrants to be practically worthless. No warrant held by our public stockholders will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant is current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have a contractual obligation to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. We intend to comply with this obligation, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise, whether by net cash settlement or otherwise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, the value of the warrants held by our public stockholders may be greatly reduced, the market for such warrants may be limited and such warrants may expire worthless. In such event, holders who acquired their warrants as part of a purchase of units will have paid the full unit purchase price solely for the shares underlying the units. Even if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not current, the insider warrants may be exercisable for unregistered shares of common stock. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to register the shares underlying the warrants under the applicable state securities laws, in which case the holders of such securities may not be able to exercise them. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless the common stock issuable upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Because the exemptions from qualification in certain states for resales of warrants and for issuances of common stock by the issuer upon exercise of a warrant may be different, a warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for issuance of common stock upon an exercise and the holder will be precluded from exercise of the warrant. At the time that the warrants become exercisable (following our completion of a business combination), we expect to either continue to be listed on the NYSE Amex (or become listed on another national securities exchange which would provide an exemption from registration in every state), or we would register the warrants in every state (or seek another exemption from registration in such states). Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. However, we cannot assure you of this fact. As a result, the value of the warrants may be greatly reduced, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants prior to their expiration if the common stock issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. If the warrants expire unexercised, holders who acquired their warrants as part of a purchase of units will have paid the full unit purchase price solely for the shares underlying the units. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Since we have not yet selected a particular industry or target business with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. We may consummate a business combination with a company in any industry we choose and are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business with which we may ultimately complete a business combination. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. If we complete a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. For example, if we complete a business combination with a business in a regulated industry, we may be subject to various regulatory risks associated with that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our stocks, warrants, or units will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors in this offering than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. 10 We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 25,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. There are 3,060,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of the shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the unit purchase option granted to the underwriter) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock are available for issuance. Although we have no current commitment to issue additional securities, we are likely to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if we issue preferred stock with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; • covenants that limit our ability to acquire capital assets or make additional acquisitions; and • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel such as George Lu, Louis Koo and Yuxiao Zhang, three of our officers and directors, may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following a business combination, we do not have employment agreements with any of these individuals, and therefore they are not required to remain with us following a business combination. Furthermore, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following a business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous to us. Our key personnel will be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to the company after the consummation of the business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business, potentially resulting in their making a recommendation for a business combination that is less advantageous to us and our stockholders than other available alternatives. However, we believe the ability of such individuals to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. 11 Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs, which could negatively affect our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Some of our officers and directors are, and others may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Some of our officers and directors are, and others may in the future become, affiliated with entities, including other public acquisition companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. As a result, a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us and we may not be able to pursue such business combination opportunity. All of our officers and directors own shares of our common stock, and some indirectly own warrants, which will not participate in liquidation distributions and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors own shares of our common stock that were issued prior to our public offering and some of them indirectly own insider warrants purchased upon consummation of our public offering. Such individuals have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to those shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate a business combination. The shares acquired prior to our public offering, as well as the insider warrants, and any warrants purchased by our officers or directors in our public offering or in the aftermarket will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and in completing a business combination on a timely basis. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. For example, since our officers and directors paid significantly less for shares of our common stock than the public offering price per share, they could benefit if we effected a business combination that resulted in our common stock being valued at a price that would result in a loss for our public stockholders. Because our existing officers and directors may not receive reimbursement for some of the out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them unless a business combination is consummated, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Our existing executive officers and directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the available proceeds not deposited in the trust account, including interest income of $1,350,000, net of taxes, unless the business combination is consummated. The amount of available proceeds is based on management’s estimates of the funds needed for operations and to consummate a business combination, and those estimates may prove to be inaccurate. The financial interest of our executive officers and directors could influence their motivation in selecting a target business as certain business combinations may involve the repayment of expenses while others may not. For instance, our executive officers and directors may, as part of any such combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of their out-of-pocket expenses in excess of the amount in the trust account, which, if not agreed to by the target business’ owners, could cause our executive officers and directors to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. As a result, our executive officers and directors may have a potential conflict of interest when determining whether or not a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. 12 We may not obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party as to the fair market value of the target business with which we complete a business combination or that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our stockholders from a financial point of view. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that the target business we select has a fair market value in excess of at least 80% of our net assets. We are also not required to obtain an opinion from such an unaffiliated third party indicating that the price we are paying is fair to our stockholders from a financial point of view unless the target is affiliated with one or more of our officers, directors, special advisors, existing stockholders or their affiliates. If no opinion is obtained, our stockholders will be relying on the judgment of our board of directors. It is possible that we will only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds from the public offering and the private placement, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business. The net proceeds from the public offering and the private placement provided us with approximately $65,675,685 which we may use to complete a business combination. Our management has virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective target business, except that our initial business combination must be with a business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such business combination, although this may entail the simultaneous business combinations of multiple operating businesses. While we may be able to purchase more than one target business using our equity securities as consideration for the acquisition or raising additional funds through the sale of our securities or through loan arrangements, we have no agreements or arrangements for such additional funding. We therefore believe that it is most likely that we will have the ability to effect only a single business combination. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. Alternatively, if our business combination entails the simultaneous business combinations of multiple operating businesses from different sellers, we would face additional risks, including difficulties and expenses incurred in connection with the subsequent integration of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies into a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. The fact that we will proceed with the business combination if public stockholders holding less than 30% of our shares exercise their redemption rights, rather than the 20% threshold of most other public acquisition companies, may hinder our ability to consummate a business combination in the most efficient manner or to optimize our capital structure. Unlike most other public acquisition companies, which have a 20% redemption threshold, we will proceed with the business combination if public stockholders holding less than 30% of our shares exercise their redemption rights, which will make it easier for us to receive stockholder approval for a business combination which some stockholders vote against. As a result of our higher redemption threshold, we may have less cash available to complete a business combination. Because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such redemption rights, we will need to structure a business combination meeting the 80% of our net assets test that requires less cash, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund the transaction in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. Alternatively, to compensate for the potential shortfall in cash, we may be required to structure the business combination, in whole or in part, using the issuance of our stock as consideration or by issuing notes for a portion of the purchase price. Accordingly, this higher redemption threshold of 30% may hinder our ability to consummate a business combination in the most efficient manner or to optimize our capital structure. 13 Because of our limited resources and structure, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from entities other than public acquisition companies for target businesses, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for business combinations. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that with our capital there are numerous potential target businesses with which we could complete a business combination, our ability to compete in completing a business combination with certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the business combination of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay or preclude the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. Because there are only a limited number of public acquisition companies that have gone public in the US since August 2003 and that have either consummated a business combination or entered into a definitive agreement or letter of intent for a business combination, it may indicate that there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities like our company or that many privately held target businesses are not inclined to enter into these types of transactions with publicly held public acquisition companies like ours. If we are unable to consummate a business combination with a target business within the prescribed time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that we have adequate capital to allow us to consummate a business combination, because we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If our capital proves to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or the obligation to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders (which in our case may be up to 30% of the shares held by public stockholders), we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. With the limited amount of time before we must acquire a target business, which much be completed by November 8, 2009, we may be unable to wait for the market for financing to improve to conduct the transaction. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our initial stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and this may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our initial stockholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively own 17.9% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. With respect to any vote on a business combination, our officers and directors have agreed to vote the shares they acquired before our public offering in accordance with the majority in interest of the public stockholders. However, any shares of common stock they acquired in our public offering or in the open market after our public offering will be considered as part of the holding of the public stockholders and will have the same voting rights as other public stockholders with respect to a potential business combination. Accordingly, they may vote the shares acquired by them in our public offering or in the open market as they choose with respect to a proposal to approve a business combination. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial stockholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our initial stockholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. In addition, our initial stockholders and their affiliates and relatives, although did not purchase any units in our public offering, are not prohibited from purchasing securities in the open market. If they do, we cannot assure you that our existing stockholders will not have considerable influence upon the vote in connection with a business combination and make it more likely that a business combination is approved. Although we do not know for certain the factors that would cause our initial stockholders to purchase our securities, we believe that some of the factors they would consider are: (i) the trading price of our securities, (ii) their aggregate investment in our securities, (iii) whether it appears that a substantial number of public stockholders are voting against a proposed business combination, and (iv) their interest in the target business once the target business has been identified. 14 Our outstanding warrants and option may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination, as well as dilute the ownership interests of stockholders. We issued warrants to purchase 8,625,000 shares of common stock as part of the units sold in our public offering. We also issued an option to purchase 550,000 units to the representative of the underwriters which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of an additional 550,000 warrants. We have also issued the insider warrants to purchase 2,265,000 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants and the option could make us a less attractive business combination vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants and option may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of completing a business combination with the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and option could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants and the option are exercised, stockholders may experience dilution to their holdings as a result of the increase in the number of shares of common stock outstanding. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to their initial shares, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial stockholders are entitled to make a demand that we register the resale of their initial shares at any time after their shares are released from escrow. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their initial shares, then there will be an additional 1,875,000 shares of common stock (or 17.9% of the outstanding common stock) eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional shares of common stock trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of completing a business combination with the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our common stock. The NYSE Amex may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are currently listed on the NYSE Amex, a national securities exchange. However, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the NYSE Amex in the future. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the NYSE Amex may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the NYSE Amex delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. 15 Our internal controls over financial reporting do not currently meet all of the standards contemplated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our units. Our internal controls over financial reporting do not currently meet all of the standards contemplated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that we will eventually be required to meet. We are in the process of addressing our internal controls over financial reporting and are establishing formal policies, processes and practices related to financial reporting and to the identification of key financial reporting risks, assessment of their potential impact and linkage of those risks to specific areas and activities within our organization. Additionally, we have begun the process of documenting our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. Because we do not currently have comprehensive documentation of our internal controls and have not yet tested our internal controls in accordance with Section 404, we cannot conclude in accordance with Section 404 that we do not have a material weakness in our internal controls or a combination of significant deficiencies that could result in the conclusion that we have a material weakness in our internal controls. As a public entity, we will be required to complete our initial assessment in a timely manner. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements could also suffer if our independent registered public accounting firm were to report a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. This could materially adversely affect us and lead to a decline in the price of our units and the underlying stock and warrants. The due diligence process that we undertake in connection with reviewing potential candidates for a business combination may not reveal all facts that may be relevant in connection with a business combination. Before deciding to engage in a business combination, we will conduct due diligence that we deem reasonable and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances applicable to each potential target. When conducting due diligence, we may be required to evaluate important and complex business, financial, tax, accounting, environmental and legal issues. Outside consultants, legal advisors, accountants and investment banks may be involved in the due diligence process in varying degrees depending on the type of investment. Nevertheless, when conducting due diligence and making an assessment regarding an investment, we rely on the resources available to us, including information provided by the target of the investment and, in some circumstances, third-party investigations. The due diligence investigation that we will carry out with respect to any potential target may not reveal or highlight all relevant facts that may be necessary or helpful in evaluating such target which may result in our completing a business combination with an unsuitable target or ascribing a value to a target in excess of its actual value. Given that many potential targets will be located outside of the US, it may be more difficult for us to obtain reliable information regarding such targets than companies located inside the US due to differences in accounting practices and other factors. Moreover, such an investigation will not necessarily result in a business combination being successful. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. A company that, among other things, is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, trading or holding certain types of securities would be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”). The proceeds held in trust are invested by the trust agent only in US “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 having a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we believe the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act are met and we should not be deemed an investment company. If we are nevertheless deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: 16 • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. Compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. Risks Related to Operations in China Business combinations involving companies with operations in China entail special considerations and risks. If we are successful in completing a business combination with a target business with operations in China, we will be subject to, and possibly adversely affected by, the following risks: After a business combination, substantially all of our assets will likely be located in China and substantially all of our revenue will be derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects will be subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal policies, developments and conditions in China. China’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, China’s GDP has grown consistently since 1978. However, we cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained in the future. If in the future China’s economy experiences a downturn or grows at a slower rate than expected, there may be less demand for spending in certain industries. A decrease in demand for spending in certain industries could materially and adversely affect our ability to find an attractive target business with which to consummate a business combination and if we effect a business combination, the ability of that target business to become profitable. China’s economic growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. China’s government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may have a negative effect on us, depending on the industry in which we engage in a business combination. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by Chinese government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to a potential target business and a business combination. China’s economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years China’s government has implemented measures emphasizing the use of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by China’s government. In addition, China’s government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. We cannot assure you that China’s economic, political or legal systems will not develop in a way that becomes detrimental to our business, results of operations and prospects. China has recently been admitted into the World Trade Organization, or WTO, the global international organization dealing with the rules of trade between nations. It is believed that this will ultimately result in a reduction on tariffs for industrial products, a reduction in trade restrictions and an increase in trading with the US. However, China has not fully complied with all of its WTO obligations to date, including fully opening its markets to American goods. There currently also exists a trade imbalance between the two countries. If actions are not taken to rectify these problems, trade relations may be strained and this may have a negative impact on China’s economy. 17 Adverse changes in economic policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for products we ultimately produce or sell, or services we offer, following a business combination. Since the late 1970’s, the Chinese government has been reforming the economic system in China. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth. However, we cannot predict the future direction of economic reforms or the effects such measures may have on our future business following a business combination. Any adverse change in the economic conditions in China, in policies of the Chinese government or in laws and regulations in China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and the development of the target business. As a result of merger and acquisition regulations implemented on September 8, 2006 relating to acquisitions of assets and equity interests of Chinese companies by foreign persons, it is expected that acquisitions will take longer and be subject to economic scrutiny by Chinese government authorities such that we may not be able to complete a business combination. On August 8, 2006, the Ministry of Commerce, together with several other government agencies, promulgated a comprehensive set of regulations which became effective on September 8, 2006 governing the approval process by which a Chinese company may participate in an acquisition of its assets or its equity interests and by which a Chinese company may obtain public trading of its securities on a securities exchange outside China. Although there was a complex series of regulations in place prior to September 8, 2006 for approval of Chinese enterprises that were administered by a combination of provincial and centralized agencies, the new regulations have largely centralized and expanded the approval process which may, depending on the structure of the transaction, involve variously the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM), the provincial-level commerce authorities, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce (SAIC) or its local branch offices, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) or its branch offices, the State Asset Supervision and Administration Commission, and China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). Depending on the structure of the transaction, these regulations will require the Chinese parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the aforementioned agencies, some of which must be made within strict time limits and depend on approvals from one or the other of the aforementioned agencies. The application process has been supplemented to require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the business to be acquired and evaluations of the acquirer which will permit the government to assess the economics of a transaction in addition to the compliance with legal requirements. Generally speaking, in absence of any unusual complexity and where the transaction does not involve an acquisition of a Chinese company which carries on business which is sensitive to the PRC authorities, the approval process can normally be completed within 4 to 6 months depending on the structure of the transaction. The merger and acquisition regulations were only promulgated in August 2006 and accordingly the internal practices and procedures involved in the approval process are still developing. The approval timeline is generally subject to various factors which may affect the actual time required for obtaining the approval. The approval can only be granted by the PRC authorities when the application documents submitted are complete and in order. It is not uncommon that the PRC authority will request the provision of additional documents or raise further queries during the approval process. In addition, the approval applications normally need to go through different levels of governmental authorities starting from the district level authority, and proceeding to the city level authority and then the provincial level authority. Different governmental bureaus may be involved in the approval process or sometimes the approval process may require internal consultation among different divisions in a single bureau. The time required for obtaining the approval will also depend on the manpower and resources of the authority concerned and the volume of the application documents. Change in PRC law and/or the practices adopted by the relevant authorities may also prolong the approval process. If obtained, approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed. Also, certain types of completed transactions must be reported to MOFCOM and some of the other agencies within a short period after closing or be subject to an unwinding of the transaction. If the transaction was unwound, the consideration paid to the target business would be returned to us and we would then be forced to either attempt to complete a new business combination if it was prior to twenty four months from the consummation of the offering or we would be required to return any amounts which were held in the trust account to our shareholders and dissolve and liquidate. It is expected that compliance with the regulations will be more time consuming than in the past, will be more costly for the parties involved and will permit the government much more extensive evaluation and control over the terms of the transaction. Therefore, acquisitions in China may not be able to be completed because the terms of the transaction may not satisfy aspects of the approval process and may not be completed, even if approved, if they are not consummated within the time permitted by the approvals granted. 18 Because China merger and acquisition regulations of September 8, 2006 permit the government agencies to have scrutiny over the economics of an acquisition transaction and require consideration in a transaction to be paid within stated time limits, we may not be able to negotiate a business combination that is acceptable to our stockholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a business combination. The regulations have introduced aspects of economic and substantive analysis of the target business and the acquirer and the terms of the transaction by MOFCOM or the provincial-level commerce authorities and the other governing agencies through submissions of an appraisal report, a feasibility study report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction. The regulations also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the Chinese business or assets. The regulations require that in certain transaction structures, the consideration must be paid within strict time periods, generally not in excess of one year. Because the Chinese authorities have expressed concern with so-called roundtrip investment pursuant to which Chinese residents would use an offshore vehicle to invest in domestic companies thus turning them into foreign investment enterprises (FIEs), regulations require new foreign sourced capital of not less than 25% of the domestic company’s post-acquisition capital in order to obtain FIE treatment in the case of such roundtrip investment. Domestic acquisition transactions may not cause overconcentration to eliminate or restrict competition, disturb the socio-economic order or damage the public interest, or lead to losses to state-owned assets. These aspects of the regulations will limit our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Therefore, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction with terms that will satisfy our investors and protect our stockholders interests in an acquisition of a Chinese business or assets. China merger and acquisition regulations of September 8, 2006 have introduced industry protection and antitrust aspects to the acquisition of Chinese companies and assets which may limit our ability to effect an attractive business combination. Furthermore, the newly adopted Anti-Monopoly Law provides for additional review procedures and requirements for certain acquisitions, which could make it more difficult for us to complete a proposed acquisition. Under Chinese merger and acquisition regulations, acquisitions of Chinese domestic companies relating to “important industries” that may affect the national economic security or result in the transfer of “actual control” of companies having “famous Chinese brand names” or “well established Chinese brand names” must be reported and approved by the Ministry of Commerce. The merger and acquisition regulations also provide for antitrust review requirements for transactions in which any of the following specified criteria are present: a Chinese market turnover by any of the parties to the acquisition during the current year exceeding 1.5 billion Chinese Renminbi; the foreign investor’s acquisition of more than 10 enterprises in related industries in China within one year; control of 20% or more of the Chinese market on a pre-transaction basis, or control of 25% or more of the Chinese market as a result of the transaction. An antitrust review may also be initiated at the request of a competing domestic enterprise or the relevant functional authority or trade association. In addition, certain mergers and acquisitions among foreign companies occurring outside of China could also be subject to antitrust review in China which is similar to US anti-trust law concepts. The regulations use various economic aspects of the parties or markets to bring a transaction outside of China under scrutiny, including any one of the level of sales or assets within China, control of 20% or more of the Chinese market on a pre-transaction basis, or control of 25% or more of the Chinese market as a result of the transaction. Exemptions may be sought from the MOFCOM and SAIC on the basis that: (i) the transaction will improve market competition, (ii) the transaction will restructure unprofitable entities and ensures employment, (iii) the transaction will introduce high technologies, bring in management talent and increase international competitiveness, or (iv) the transaction will improve the environment. Further to the efforts geared towards ensuring sufficient degree of competition within the domestic market, the Anti-Monopoly Law (“AML”), which became effective on August 1, 2008, is China’s first comprehensive and unified legislation regulating competition. Three main types of prohibited activities are specified under AML, namely (1) monopoly agreements, i.e., cartel arrangements; (2) abuse of dominate market position by the parties; and (3) anti-competitive “concentrations”. Similar to those merger and acquisition regulations promulgated in 2006, AML is enforced by three Chinese government agents. MOFCOM is the agency responsible for examining any proposed merger and acquisition transactions in order to ascertain whether they will result in a concentration as provided under AML. The SAIC is responsible for carrying out investigations on any potential or reported cases of monopoly agreements, e.g., cartel arrangements, and cases of abuse of dominant market position by the parties, and imposing administrative sanctions as appropriate. The National Development and Reform Commission (“NDRC”) will investigate all price-related monopoly cases, which may either arise from a case of monopoly agreement or a case of abuse of dominant market position by the parties. 19 AML provides that all acquisitions (both onshore and offshore) that meet the “notification thresholds” (described below) must be reported to MOFCOM to obtain its approval to proceed. If MOFCOM considers that the relevant Chinese market will become too concentrated after the proposed acquisition and thus competition within the market will be eliminated or restricted, MOFCOM may refuse to approve such transaction or impose conditions on the approval for such transaction to proceed. Subject to certain exceptions and adjustments, the “notification thresholds” are specified by the State Council on August 3, 2008 under Rules on the Notification of Concentration of Business Operators as follows: (1) the global turnover in the preceding accounting year of all parties to the concentration exceeds RMB 10 billion (approximately US$1.46 billion) and the turnover within China of each of at least two of those parties exceeds RMB 400 million (approximately US$58 million) over the previous accounting year, or (2) the turnover within China in the preceding accounting year of all parties to the concentration exceeds RMB 2 billion (approximately US$290 million) and the turnover within China of each of at least two of those parties exceeds RMB 400 million over the preceding accounting year. Since both AML and the merger and acquisition regulations of September 6, 2006 are current and effective in China, any proposed merger and acquisition transaction is subject to the review mechanism under both laws if the relevant thresholds are met. When we evaluate a potential business combination, we will consider the need to comply with these laws and regulations which may result in our modifying or not pursuing a particular transaction. Although AML and the merger and acquisition regulations provide specific requirements and procedures, there are many ambiguities which give the regulators wide latitude in the approval process and which will cause uncertainty regarding our ability to complete a business combination on a timely basis. The merger and acquisition regulations and AML set forth many specific requirements, but there are still many ambiguities in the meaning of many provisions. Although further regulations are anticipated in the future, until there has been clarification either by pronouncements, regulation or practice, there is some uncertainty regarding the scope of these laws and regulations. Moreover, the ambiguities give the regulators wide latitude in the enforcement of the regulations and the transactions to which they may or may not apply. Therefore, we cannot predict the extent to which the regulations and AML will apply to a transaction, and therefore, there may be uncertainty over whether or not a business combination will be completed until approvals are sought or until the preliminary approvals are obtained. If relations between China and the US or Europe deteriorate, potential target businesses or their goods or services could become less attractive. The relationship between China and the US or Europe is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. For instance, relations may be compromised if the US or Europe becomes a more vocal advocate of Taiwan or proceeds to sell certain military weapons and technology to Taiwan. Changes in political conditions in China and changes in the state of Sino-US and Sino-European relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause potential target businesses or their goods and services to become less attractive. Because we are not limited to any specific industry, there is no basis for investors in this offering to evaluate the possible extent of any impact on our ultimate operations if relations are strained between China and either the US or Europe. If China imposes restrictions to reduce inflation, future economic growth in China could be severely curtailed which could materially and adversely impact our profitability following a business combination. While the economy of China has experienced rapid growth, this growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the supply of money and rising inflation. In order to control inflation in the past, China has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. Imposition of similar restrictions may lead to a slowing of economic growth and decrease the interest in the services or products we may ultimately offer leading to a material and adverse impact on our profitability. Currency policies and issues may cause a target business’ ability to succeed in the international markets to be diminished or could negatively impact the target business’ results of operations. Historically, China “pegged” its currency to the US dollar. This meant that each unit of Chinese currency had a set ratio for which it could be exchanged for US currency, as opposed to having a floating value like most other countries’ currencies. Many countries argued that this system of keeping the Chinese currency low when compared to other countries gave Chinese companies an unfair price advantage over foreign companies. Due to mounting pressure from other countries, China recently reformed its economic policies to establish a floating value for its currency. As a result of this policy reform, target companies may be adversely affected since the competitive advantages that existed as a result of the former policies will cease. We cannot assure you that a target business with which we consummate a business combination will be able to compete effectively with the new policies in place. 20 Furthermore, because one of our objectives is to complete a business combination with a target business having its primary operating facilities located in China, and because substantially all revenues and income would be received in a foreign currency such as Renminbi, the main currency used in China, the dollar equivalent of our net assets and distributions, if any, would be adversely affected by reductions in the value of the Renminbi. The value of the Renminbi fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies such as the US dollar has been generally based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, which are set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. The official exchange rate had remained stable over the past several years. On July 21, 2005, the Chinese government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the US dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a managed band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 16.9% appreciation of the Renminbi against the US dollar between July 21, 2005 and March 14, 2008. This floating exchange rate, and any appreciation of the Renminbi that may result from such rate, could cause the cost of a target business as measured in dollars to increase. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi relative to foreign currencies could affect our operating results. Following a business combination, our payroll and other costs of non-US operations will be payable in foreign currencies, primarily Renminbi. To the extent future revenue is denominated in non-US currencies, we would be subject to increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The value of Renminbi against the US dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. As our operations will likely be primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert US dollars into Chinese Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the US dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into US dollars for other business purposes and the US dollar appreciates against this currency, the US dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. The Chinese government recently confirmed that it is pegging the exchange rate of the Renminbi against a number of currencies, rather than just the US dollar. Fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate could adversely affect our ability to find an attractive target business with which to consummate a business combination. Exchange controls that exist in China may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business combination. Following a business combination, we will be subject to China’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In China, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange (SAFE) regulates the conversion of the Renminbi into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign investment enterprises (FIEs) are required to apply to the SAFE for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for FIEs.” Following a business combination, we will likely be an FIE as a result of our ownership structure. With such registration certificates, which need to be inspected annually, FIEs are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including a “basic account” and a “capital account.” Currency conversion within the scope of the “basic account,” such as remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account,” including capital items such as direct investment, loans and securities, still require approval of the SAFE. We cannot assure you that China regulatory authorities will not impose further restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our stockholders or to fund operations we may have outside of China. Regulations relating to the transfer of state-owned property rights in enterprises may increase the cost of our acquisitions and impose an additional administrative burden on us. The legislation governing the acquisition of a Chinese state-owned company contains stringent governmental regulation comprising the Provisional Regulations on Using Foreign Investment to Reorganize State-owned Enterprises promulgated by SAIC and SAFE on November 8, 2002, effective from January 1, 2003 and the Provisional Measures on the Administration of the Transfer of State-Owned Property Rights in Enterprises promulgated by the SASAC and the Ministry of Finance on December 31, 2003, effective from February 1, 2004. The transfer of state-owned property rights in enterprises must take place through a government approved “state-owned asset exchange”, and the value of the transferred property rights must be evaluated by those Chinese appraisal firms qualified to do “state-owned assets evaluation”. The final price must not be less than 90% of the appraisal price. Additionally, bidding/auction procedures are essential in the event that there is more than one potential transferee. 21 In the case of an acquisition by foreign investors of state-owned enterprises, the acquirer and the seller must make a resettlement plan to properly resettle the employees, and the resettlement plan must be approved by the Employees’ Representative Congress. The seller must pay all unpaid wages and social welfare payments from the existing assets of the target company to the employees. Therefore, any investment by us in a state-owned company could be subject to additional costs, delays and uncertainties. If China enacts regulations in our target business’ proposed industry segments which forbid or restrict foreign investment, our ability to consummate a business combination could be severely impaired. Many of the rules and regulations that companies face in China are not explicitly communicated. If new laws or regulations forbid foreign investment in industries in which we want to complete a business combination, they could severely impair our pool of potential target businesses. Additionally, if the relevant Chinese authorities find us or the target business with which we ultimately complete a business combination to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: • levying fines; • revoking our business and other licenses; • requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and • requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. One example of an industry subject to significant regulation is the telecommunications industry. A foreign investor is only permitted to hold a minority stake in a telecommunications enterprise operating a basic telecommunications business (other than wireless paging business) and 50% in a telecommunications enterprise operating a value-added telecommunications business (including wireless paging). On July 13, 2006, the Ministry of Information Industry (MII) issued a notice with the purpose of increasing the regulation of foreign investment in and operations of value-added telecom services. The notice explicitly prohibits domestic telecoms companies from leasing, transferring or reselling in any form their telecoms business licenses to foreign investors under another guise or to provide facilities to foreign investors to illegal operate telecoms business in China. The notice requires that the operators of value-added telecom services themselves or their shareholders own and control the internet domain names and registered trademarks used in their business. The operators should also have facilities and premises which shall comply with their approved business scope and be commensurate with the value-added telecom services that they are approved to operate. The ownership requirements functionally limit foreign direct and indirect ownership and control of the intellectual property of these businesses even when attempted through various parallel control, licensing, use and management agreements. It is anticipated that these regulations will be strictly enforced, and the government has provided that the new regulations apply retroactively and provides for audit procedures. The failure to comply may cause the MII to terminate a telecommunications license or otherwise modify existing agreements or require the disposition of the assets by the foreign entity. Any anticipated foreign investment in such businesses will be subject to prior approval by the MII or the provincial level information industry authority, and it is expected that approval for investment may not be easily obtained for foreign investment in these businesses unless in strict compliance. Therefore, investment by us in a highly regulated sector such as telecommunications may not be actively pursued because certain assets may not be acquirable and accounting consolidation may be restricted or not permitted as a result of an unfavorable but permitted transaction structure. Recent regulations relating to offshore investment activities by China residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that may limit or adversely effect our ability to acquire China companies. Regulations were issued on October 21, 2005 by the SAFE (that replaced two previously issued regulations on January 24, 2005 and April 8, 2005, respectively) that will require approvals from, and registrations with, Chinese government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by Chinese residents and Chinese corporate entities. The SAFE regulations retroactively require approval and registration of direct or indirect investments previously made by Chinese residents in offshore companies. In the event that a Chinese shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to obtain the required SAFE approval and make the required registration, Chinese subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of Chinese subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE approval and registration requirements described above, as currently drafted, could result in liability under Chinese law for foreign exchange evasion. 22 It is expected that compliance with the regulations will be more time consuming than in the past, will be more costly for the parties involved and will permit the government much more extensive evaluation and control over the terms of the transaction. Therefore, acquisitions in China may not be able to be completed because the terms of the transaction may not satisfy aspects of the approval process and may not be completed, even if approved, if they are not consummated within the time permitted by the approvals granted. As a result of the lack of supporting rules implementing the SAFE regulations, the uncertainty as to when the new draft regulations will take effect, and uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of the new regulations with other approval requirements, it remains unclear how these existing regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We are committed to complying with the relevant rules. As a result of the foregoing, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of the target business we intend to acquire, as the case may be, will be able to complete the necessary approval, filings and registrations for a proposed business combination. This may restrict our ability to implement our business combination strategy and adversely affect our operations. Because Chinese law will govern almost all of any target business’ material agreements, if we acquire a target business we may not be able to enforce our rights within China or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Chinese law will govern almost all of our target business’ material agreements, many of which may be with Chinese governmental agencies. While we are not aware of any laws or regulations currently in effect that would limit our ability to consummate a business combination, we cannot assure you that changes in Chinese laws will not occur in the future. We also cannot assure you that, if we acquire a target business, the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of China. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws and contracts in China may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the US. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, implementation of intellectual property-related laws has historically been ineffective in China, primarily because of difficulties in enforcement and ambiguities in Chinese laws and, therefore, to the extent we invest in a business relying upon proprietary intellectual property we may not be successful in stopping or limiting any activities by others that might infringe on such intellectual property. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Because some of our directors and officers reside outside of the US and, after the consummation of a business combination, substantially all of our assets will be located outside of the US, investors may have difficulty enforcing their legal rights against such individuals. All of our directors and officers other than George Lu and William Sharp reside outside of the US and, after the consummation of a business combination, substantially all of our assets will be located outside of the US. As a result, investors in the US may not be able to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of US courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws or other Federal or state laws. Moreover, we have been advised that China does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the US. Further, extradition treaties now in effect between the US and China are unclear as to whether effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the Federal securities laws would be permitted. If our management following a business combination is unfamiliar with US securities laws, they may have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws which could lead to various regulatory issues. Following a business combination, our management will likely resign from their positions as officers of the company and the management of the target business at the time of the business combination will remain in place. We cannot assure you that management of the target business will be familiar with US securities laws. If new management is unfamiliar with our laws, they may have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. 23 If certain exemptions within China regarding withholding taxes are removed, we may be required to deduct Chinese corporate withholding taxes from dividends we may pay to our stockholders following a business combination. According to China’s applicable income tax laws, regulations, notices and decisions related to foreign investment enterprises and their investors (the “Applicable Foreign Enterprises Tax Law”), income such as dividends and profits distribution from China derived from a foreign enterprise which has no establishment in China is subject to a 20% withholding tax, unless the relevant income is specifically exempted from tax or the tax rate is reduced under the Applicable Foreign Enterprises Tax Law or through the operation of bilateral tax treaties. Currently, profits derived by a stockholder, such as through dividends, from a foreign-invested enterprise (an “FIE”) are exempted. However, if the foregoing exemption is removed in the future following a business combination, we may be required to deduct certain amounts from dividends we may pay to our stockholders to pay corporate withholding taxes. After we consummate a business combination, our operating company in China will be subject to restrictions on dividend payments which may limit our ability to pay dividends to you. After we consummate a business combination, we will rely on dividends and other distributions from our operating company to provide us with cash flow and to meet our other obligations. Current regulations in China would permit our operating company in China to pay dividends to us only out of its after-tax distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our operating company in China will be required to set aside at least 10% (up to an aggregate amount equal to half of its registered capital) of its accumulated profits each year. Such cash reserve may not be distributed as cash dividends. In addition, if our operating company in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us which in turn would potentially leave us with less cash available to pay dividends to our stockholders. The legal authorities in China are in the process of evaluating prior tax and fee benefits provided to foreign investors and companies to encourage development within the country such that these benefits may be lessened or removed with the consequence that expenses may rise, impacting margins and net income. On March 16, 2007, China enacted the Enterprise Income Tax Law of the People’s Republic of China (“Unified Tax Law”). Effective January 1, 2008, the Unified Tax Law has consolidated the separate income tax regimes applicable to domestic Chinese enterprises and FIEs. The unified regime provides for a 25% income tax rate that applies equally to domestic enterprises and FIEs. FIEs established prior to March 16, 2007 shall be able to continue enjoying the tax preferences previously available to FIEs, but all those established after this date will be subject to the new regime. Whereas under the previous regime, FIEs engaged in manufacturing were generally eligible for tax incentives, such incentives have under the new Unified Tax Law been reserved for certain new and high-technology enterprises and certain other qualifying enterprises. The Unified Tax Law sets forth general principles and it is expected that implementing regulations will be issued that will clarify certain areas of the law that are now unclear. The criteria for qualifying as new and high-technology enterprise and for the other tax benefits under the Unified Tax Law are yet to be clarified and as a result it is not clear what the global impact will be on the tax burden of FIEs. Overall, it is likely that the cost of operating in China will increase for those companies and entities that have had various tax and fee advantages in the past. We might be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the Unified Tax Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The Unified Tax Law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation rules for the Unified Tax Law issued by the PRC State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. After our acquisition, the PRC tax authorities might treat us as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, in which case we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. If any dividend is declared in the future and paid in a foreign currency, you may be taxed on a larger amount in US dollars than the US dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. If you are a US holder, you will be taxed on the US dollar value of your dividends at the time you receive them, even if you actually receive a smaller amount of US dollars when the payment is in fact converted into US dollars. Specifically, if a dividend is declared and paid in a foreign currency, the amount of the dividend distribution that you must include in your income as a US holder will be the US dollar value of the payments made in the foreign currency, determined at the conversion rate of the foreign currency to the US dollar on the date the dividend distribution is includible in your income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars. Thus, if the value of the foreign currency decreases before you actually convert the currency into US dollars, you will be taxed on a larger amount in US dollars than the US dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. 24 Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits US companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in China, particularly in any industry that may deal with contracts from the Chinese Government. We can make no assurance that, when hired, officers, employees or other agents of a target business will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If such officers, employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 