Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the information included in or incorporated by reference in this report before deciding whether an investment in our common stock is suitable for you. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In such an event, the trading prices of our common stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks and Uncertainties Related to the Mergers. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the mergers. The mergers involve the integration of two companies that previously have operated independently, each with its own business, customers, employees, culture and systems. To realize the anticipated benefits from the mergers, we must successfully combine the businesses of Legacy Vulcan and Florida Rock in a manner that permits, among other things, earnings growth and cost savings. In addition, we must achieve these savings without adversely affecting revenues. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the mergers may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The failure to integrate successfully Legacy Vulcan’s and Florida Rock’s businesses and operations in the expected time frame may adversely affect Vulcan’s future results. Until the completion of the mergers, Legacy Vulcan and Florida Rock operated independently. We face significant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating their organizations, procedures and operations in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key Legacy Vulcan and Florida Rock personnel. The integration of Legacy Vulcan and Florida Rock will be costly, complex and time consuming. The integration process and other disruptions from the transaction could be more costly than we expect or result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom we have business dealings or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the mergers. Many of these difficulties are outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Integrating Legacy Vulcan and Florida Rock may divert management’s attention away from our operations. Successful integration of Legacy Vulcan’s and Florida Rock’s organizations, procedures and operations may place a significant burden on our management and its internal resources. The integration efforts could divert management’s focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters during the integration process. Our incurrence of additional debt to pay the cash portion of the merger consideration significantly increased our interest expense, financial leverage and debt service requirements. We established $4.0 billion of new credit facilities in connection with the mergers, and borrowed $3.35 billion under such credit facilities in order to (i) acquire 70% of the outstanding shares of Florida Rock common stock, (ii) settle for cash the Florida Rock stock options outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the mergers and (iii) finance our transaction costs. Incurrence of this new debt significantly increased our leverage. There may be circumstances in which required payments of principal and/or interest on this new debt could adversely affect our cash flows and operating results. 8 Table of Contents There are various financial covenants and other restrictions in our debt instruments. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness (and other unrelated indebtedness) could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity. A default under our debt instruments may also significantly affect our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. The costs of the mergers could adversely affect our operating results. In connection with the mergers, we incurred certain costs, consisting of employee benefit costs, investment banking, legal and accounting fees, and other related charges. In addition, we will incur certain expenses in connection with the integration of Legacy Vulcan’s and Florida Rock’s businesses, particularly relating to the management information systems. Risks and Uncertainties Related to Other Aspects of Our Business. The collapse of the subprime mortgage market and the slow recovery in residential construction could continue to negatively affect our volumes. In some of our markets, particularly Florida and California, sales volumes have been negatively impacted by the collapse of the subprime mortgage market and the severe slowdown in residential construction. Our sales volumes and earnings could continue to be depressed and negatively impacted by this segment of the market until these slowdowns in residential construction improve. A decline in public sector construction and reductions in governmental funding could adversely affect our operations and results. In 2007, 47% of our sales volume of construction aggregates was made to contractors on publicly funded construction. If, as a result of a loss of funding or a significant reduction in state or federal budgets, spending on publicly funded construction were to be reduced significantly, our earnings and cash flows could be negatively affected. Weather can materially affect our quarterly results. Almost all of our products are used in the public or private construction industry, and our production and distribution facilities are located outdoors. Inclement weather affects both our ability to produce and distribute our products and affects our customers’ short-term demand since their work also can be hampered by weather. Therefore, our results can be negatively affected by inclement weather. Within our local markets, we operate in a highly competitive industry. The construction aggregates industry is highly fragmented with a large number of independent local producers in a number of our markets. However, in most markets, we also compete against large private and public companies. This results in intense competition in a number of markets in which we operate. Significant competition could lead to lower prices, lower sales volumes and higher costs in some markets, negatively affecting our earnings and cash flows. Our long-term success is dependent upon securing and permitting aggregates reserves in strategically located areas. Construction aggregates are bulky and heavy and, therefore, difficult to transport efficiently. Because of the nature of the products, the freight costs can quickly surpass the production costs. Therefore, except for geographic regions that do not possess commercially viable deposits of aggregates and are served by rail, barge or ship, the markets for our products tend to be very localized around our quarry sites. New quarry sites often take a number of years to develop, so our strategic planning and new site development must stay ahead of actual growth. Additionally, in a number of urban and suburban areas in which we operate, it is increasingly difficult to permit new sites or expand existing sites due to community resistance. 9 Table of Contents Therefore, our future success is dependent, in part, on our ability to accurately forecast future areas of high growth in order to locate optimally facility sites and on our ability to secure operating and environmental permits to operate at those sites. We use large amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based resources that are subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuation. In our production and distribution processes, we consume significant amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based resources. The availability and pricing of these resources are subject to market forces that are beyond our control. Our suppliers contract separately for the purchase of such resources and our sources of supply could be interrupted should our suppliers not be able to obtain these materials due to higher demand or other factors interrupting their availability. Variability in the supply and prices of these resources could materially affect our operating results from period to period and rising costs could erode our profitability. We use estimates in accounting for a number of significant items. Changes in our estimates could affect our future financial results. As discussed more fully in “Critical Accounting Policies” under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” on pages 22 through 38 of our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders, we use significant judgment in accounting for goodwill and goodwill impairment; impairment of long-lived assets excluding goodwill; reclamation costs; pension and other postretirement benefits; environmental compliance; claims and litigation including self-insurance; and income taxes. Although we believe we have sufficient experience and reasonable procedures to enable us to make appropriate assumptions and formulate reasonable estimates, these assumptions and estimates could change significantly in the future and could result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings. We cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. We are involved in several class action and complex litigation proceedings, some arising from our previous ownership and operation of our Chemicals business. Although we divested our Chemicals business in June 2005, we retained certain liabilities related to the business. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, we establish reserves when a loss is determined to be probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Our assessment of probability and loss estimates are based on the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of a loss contingency. Furthermore, unfavorable results in one or more of these actions could result in an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. For a description of our current legal proceedings see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” on pages 15 through 16 of this report and Note 12, “Other Commitments and Contingencies,” on pages 65 through 68 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have risen in recent years. Continuing increases in such costs could negatively affect our earnings. The costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have increased substantially over the past several years. We have instituted measures to help slow the rate of increase. However, if these costs continue to rise, this could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Our industry is capital intensive, resulting in significant fixed and semi-fixed costs. Therefore, our earnings are highly sensitive to changes in volume. Due to the high levels of fixed capital required for the extraction and production of construction aggregates, profitability as measured in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales (“margins”) can be greatly impacted due to changes in volume. 10 Table of Contents Our products generally must be transported by rail, truck, barge or ship, usually by third party providers. Significant delays or increased costs affecting these transportation methods could materially affect our operations and earnings. Our products are distributed either by truck to local markets or by rail, barge or oceangoing vessel to remote markets. Costs of transporting our products could be negatively affected by factors outside of our control, including rail service interruptions or rate increases, tariffs, rising fuel costs and capacity constraints. Additionally, inclement weather, including hurricanes, tornadoes and other weather events, can negatively impact our distribution network. Our future success depends greatly upon attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly in sales and operations. A significant factor in our future profitability is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified personnel, particularly in the areas of sales and operations, is affected by changing demographics of the available pool of workers with the training and skills necessary to fill the available positions, the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions, and our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefit packages. Changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning land use, environmental and other areas of the laws impact our business. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. Our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations related to zoning, land use and environmental matters. Despite our compliance efforts there is the inherent risk of liability in the operation of our business, especially from an environmental standpoint. These potential liabilities could have an adverse impact on our operations and profitability. Our operations require numerous governmental approvals and permits, which often require us to make significant capital and maintenance expenditures to comply with zoning and environmental laws and regulations. Stricter laws and regulations, or more stringent interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, require additional investment by us in pollution control equipment, or impede our opening new or expanding existing plants or facilities. Our future growth is dependent in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry and successfully integrating them with our existing operation. As a result of the limited opportunities to establish greenfield quarry sites, expansion of our business is dependent in part on the acquisition of existing businesses that own aggregate reserves. Our future results will be dependent in part on our ability to successfully integrate these businesses with our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 Table of Contents 