D. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Deterioration of economic conditions and a resulting decrease in consumer demand for our products could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our products, and the resulting purchase orders from its distributors, is largely dependent upon prevailing economic conditions. The recent financial crisis and economic downturns in global markets have impacted, and could further impact, the purchase orders from our distributors. For example, although our revenue decreased in the first half of 2009 compared to the same period in 2008, demand for our products started to improve in the second half of 2009 and our revenues increased 14.2% from RMB1,820.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 to RMB2,078.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. In the event the demand for consumer products declines in China as a result of a downturn in global economic conditions, demand our sports products could decrease. 5 We distribute our products mainly through the Xidelong retail stores operated by independent third party distributors over which we have limited control. We distribute our products mainly through the Xidelong retail stores, which offer our products exclusively and do not carry other brands’ products. Our 22 distributors own and operate all Xidelong retail stores. They operate some of the Xidelong retail stores directly and delegate operation of the remaining stores to third parties. We have limited control over the Xidelong retail stores operated by our distributors and authorized third party retail store operators. We have contractual relationships only with our distributors and not with authorized third party retail store operators. There can be no assurance that these current distribution arrangements provide us with sufficient control to ensure the Xidelong retail stores sell our products on an exclusive basis or to prevent our Xidelong brand from being associated with any negative image relating to quality or customer service. Such association could damage our brand image and reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, if distributors experience financial difficulties, they may unilaterally attempt to liquidate their inventory build-up through discounts at their Xidelong retail stores without our approval, which may damage the image and the value of our ““ (Xidelong) brand. Adverse changes in the business and creditworthiness of our distributors could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We derive all of our revenue from sales to distributors. Such arrangement is risky for the following reasons: • Our distributors generally do not have any contractual obligation to purchase minimum quantities of our products and may reduce purchases of our products on short notice. • Our sources purchase orders primarily at sales fairs, and such orders constitute approximately 80% to 90% of our annual revenue. Purchase order quantities may be subsequently adjusted upward or downward by amounts ranging from 10% to 15% before finalization. In 2008, we agreed with certain distributors to reduce orders by 15% to 20% before finalization to prevent overflow of inventory among such distributors arising out of any decreased consumer demand resulting from the reduction of delivery due to anticipated reduced consumer demand arising from the financial crisis and economic downturn that began in 2008. The products we ship to our distributors are based on actual orders received from distributors after upward or downward adjustments, if any. • Certain distributors, especially those adversely affected by the worsened economic conditions, may delay or default on their payments to us. Increased credit risk of distributors may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and limit our growth prospects. If our distributors perform poorly or if we fail to maintain good relationship with our distributors or retain them in our distribution network, our sales, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. We rely on our distributors for the expansion of our retail sales network but they may not be willing to accommodate the needs of our business plans. As of December 31, 2009, our distribution network consisted of 3,694 Xidelong retail stores covering 28 provinces and municipalities in China, 1,000 of which were operated directly by 22 distributors and the remaining 2,694 were operated indirectly through authorized third party retail store operators. We rely on our existing and new distributors to assist us in exploring new markets for our products and identifying potential locations for new stores. Some of our distributors, however, also distribute other brands of sports and leisurewear products, including competitor brands. Although these distributors are required to operate separate retail stores for other brands’ products, there can be no assurance that they will always provide favorable retail store locations and marketing resources to us. There can be no assurance that their expansion would be timely or sufficient in scope to satisfy the needs of our business. 6 We rely on several large distributors for a significant portion of our sales. We derive a significant portion of our sales from several large distributors. For 2007, 2008 and 2009, sales to our top five distributors accounted for approximately 43.4%, 43.1% and 46.0%, respectively, of our total revenue. For 2007, 2008 and 2009, sales to our single largest distributor accounted for approximately 13.8%, 12.3% and 13.0%, respectively, of our total revenue. We generally enter into distributorship agreements with our distributors for up to a term of 12 months. Starting from 2009, the duration of the renewal for distribution agreement has been extended from one year to three years. The duration of our contractual relationships with each of our top five distributors has been for more than three years. We do not manufacture our products on a make-to-order basis, but take orders for our prototype products at sales fairs before entering into sale contracts with our distributors to manufacture our products. Our purchase orders at sales fairs constitute approximately 80% to 90% of our revenue. There can be no assurance that our top distributors will renew their distributorship agreements with us on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Under our agreements with our distributors, we appoint only one distributor instead of multiple competing distributors for one designated geographical area or region. This enables us to manage and monitor the distributor and the Xidelong retail stores in the designated region more effectively. While we may rely on a sole distributor in a designated region to sell our products, we believe that we would be able to appoint a replacement distributor in the designated region if the need arises. However, to the extent that any distributor for any particular market ceases to cooperate with us for any reason and we are not able to find a suitable replacement distributor for that market in a timely manner, we may lose significant business in that market. Furthermore, our top distributors are not obliged to continue to place orders with us at the same levels as before or at all. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain orders from other distributors to replace any such lost sales. Any substantial reduction in purchases from our top distributors, or any failure to renew their agreements with us, may result in a significant loss of sales and our business, financial condition and results of operation may be materially adversely affected. The wholesale prices at which we sell our products to our distributors are determined by factors beyond our control. In addition, sales of our products at a discount to suggested retail price to end customers could have an adverse effect on our business and brand name. The prices at which we sell our products are affected by supply and demand fluctuations inherent in the market for our products. Under our business model, we sell our products to distributors and do not sell directly to consumers. We do not have any agreements with our distributors that provide for a minimum purchase price at which the distributors buy our products. We do, however, provide suggested retail prices. As such, the wholesale prices we offer for our products to our distributors must match the distributors’ expectations for the retail sale of our products to consumers. If distributors believe that our suggested retail prices do not justify the wholesale prices at which we are offering them, they may require us to lower our wholesale prices. If the wholesale prices of our products should decrease, our growth targets, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, a number of distributors notified us of certain products with minor deviation from specification. Because such deviation and the amounts involved were immaterial, we allowed the distributors and their authorized third-party retailers to sell these products at a discount to the suggested retail prices to end consumers. The amounts of any such discount were decided and approved by us on a case-by-case basis. Further, such discounts only affected the suggested retail prices to end consumers and had no impact on our revenue because the wholesale price at which we sold these products to the distributors remained unchanged. However, if the deviation from specification and the amounts involved were to become material in the future, the distributors could potentially negotiate for a reduction in wholesale prices, which would adversely affect our business. Increased sales of products with deviation from specifications could also damage our brand image. We are exposed to credit risks of our distributors, some of which may experience financial difficulties, which could in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We provide credit terms to our distributors based on our assessment of each distributor’s financial condition. Our distributors place advance orders at sales fairs but the risk of default may increase when dealing with financially ailing distributors or distributors struggling with economic uncertainty. Our increased sales going forward may rely heavily on credit, and we may be unable to collect these accounts receivable in full or at all. The loss of, or significant decrease in, sales to these distributors, or their failure to pay us in a timely manner or at all, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. 7 Our sales to distributors may not directly correlate to the demand for our products by end consumers, which could adversely affect our ability to accurately track market trends and preferences of end consumers for our products and respond to such changing market dynamics. We sell our products to distributors and do not sell directly to end consumers. We neither accept returns from distributors of unsold stock nor track information on a real-time basis with respect to the inventory levels and movements of our products at all of the Xidelong retail stores. Our distributors do not provide us with any sales reports. Therefore, in order to monitor consumer demand for our products, we require our distributors to submit inventory reports that provide information on the sales of our products by our distributors. These reports enable us to identify whether our products are gaining consumer acceptance at the Xidelong retail stores. However, such reporting system requires the cooperation of the distributors to report accurately and submit the relevant inventory data to us on a timely basis. If our distributors do not provide accurate and timely inventory data, we are not able to assess accurately whether our sales to distributors track sales of our products to end consumers. Further, we are only able to obtain inventory data from the retail stores directly operated by the distributors but not the authorized third party retail store operators because we do not have contractual relationships with them. Therefore, we rely on our distributors to monitor inventory levels and overall sales performance of authorized third party retail store operators. If we are unable to track end-consumer sales accurately, we may not be able to assess market trends and preferences, which ultimately could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. We face increasing labor costs and other costs of production in the PRC, which could materially adversely affect our profitability. The sportswear manufacturing industry is labor intensive. Labor costs in China have been increasing in recent years and our labor costs in the PRC could continue to increase in the future. If labor costs in the PRC continue to increase, our production costs, including both our own manufacturing and outsourcing costs, will likely increase. This may in turn affect the selling prices of our products, which may then affect the demand of such products and thereby adversely affect our sales, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, increases in costs of product parts required for production of our products, such as natural and synthetic leather, and semi-finished rubber soles, increases in electricity costs and other increases in production costs, may cause similar adverse effects, particularly if we are unable to identify and employ other appropriate means to reduce our costs of production. Furthermore, we may not be able to pass on these increased costs to consumers by increasing the selling prices of our products in light of competitive pressure in the markets where we operate. In such circumstances, our profit margin may decrease and our financial results may be adversely affected. Interruptions in our supply of raw materials and product parts could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase a large portion of our raw materials and product parts from a small number of suppliers. For 2007 and 2008, our standard supply agreements were for one year. Starting from 2009, such agreements have been extended to two years. For 2007, 2008 and 2009, we purchased raw materials for our products from 38, 36 and 53 suppliers, respectively, most of which are located in Quanzhou, which is adjacent to Jinjiang. Our contractual relationships with most of our suppliers have been in place since 2004. For 2007, 2008 and 2009, our top five raw material suppliers and subcontractors accounted for approximately 35.6%, 40.4% and 43.7%, respectively, of our total purchases from raw material suppliers and subcontractors. During the same periods, our single largest supplier accounted for approximately 7.9%, 9.9% and 9.6%, respectively, of our total purchases. There can be no assurance that our top suppliers will continue to deliver raw materials or product parts to us in a timely manner or at acceptable prices and quality, or at all. Any disruption in supply of raw materials or product parts from our suppliers may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability may decrease if we are unable to pass on increased cost of raw materials and product parts to our customers. Our manufacturing operations depend on adequate supplies of raw materials and product parts. We purchase all of our raw materials on an order-by-order basis with suppliers. The prices of certain of our key raw materials, such as synthetic leather, are subject to factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in crude oil prices. We may also experience difficulty in obtaining other acceptable quality materials on a timely basis and the prices that we pay for such materials may increase due to increased demand or other factors. We may not be able to pass on the increased cost to our customers by increasing the selling prices due to competitive pressure in the markets. In such circumstances, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 8 We rely on third party contract manufacturers for a portion of our footwear production and all of our apparel and accessories production and failure of such parties to provide products in a timely fashion could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. During 2007 and 2008, we outsourced a portion of our footwear production to three contract manufacturers and all of our apparel and accessories production to more than 30 contract manufacturers. During 2009, we outsourced production of a portion of our footwear to three contract manufacturers and all of our apparel and accessories to more than 20 contract manufacturers. The table below sets forth the percentages of the products that we outsourced to these contract manufacturers in terms of sales volume for the periods indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2007 2008 2009 Footwear 37.1 % 47.8 % 39.2 % Apparel 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Accessories 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % For 2007 and 2008, the duration of agreements with our contract manufacturers for footwear, apparel and accessories had been one year. Starting from 2009, the duration of agreements with our contract manufacturers has been extended to two years. For 2007, 2008 and 2009, our single largest contract manufacturer of footwear accounted for approximately 35.2%, 40.8% and 37.9%, respectively, of our total purchases of footwear. For 2007, 2008 and 2009, our single largest contract manufacturer for apparel and accessories accounted for approximately 14.8%, 15.7% and 17.7%, respectively, of our total purchases of apparel and accessories. For 2007, 2008 and 2009, our top five contract manufacturers for apparel and accessories accounted for approximately 48.0%, 57.1%, and 64.3%, respectively, of our total purchases of apparel and accessories. We have not entered into any long term contracts with these contract manufacturers. As such, there can be no assurance that we can renew these contracts upon expiry, on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Contract manufacturers may unilaterally terminate our supply contracts or they may seek to increase the prices that they charge. As a result, we are not assured of an uninterrupted supply of footwear, apparel and accessories of acceptable quality or at acceptable prices from our contract manufacturers. We may not be able to offset any interruption or decrease in supply of our products by increasing production at our own production facilities due to capacity constraints, and we may not be able to substitute suitable alternative contract manufacturers in a timely manner at commercially acceptable terms. Any disruption in our supply of products from contract manufacturers may adversely affect our business and could result in loss of sales and increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be involved in legal proceedings arising from violation of relevant laws, rules or regulations particularly in respect of labor and environmental protection by third party contract manufacturers and suffer from damage to our reputation. We contract with third-party contract manufacturers and raw material suppliers. In order to protect the reputation of our brand, we strive to adhere to all relevant laws, rules and regulations, particularly in respect of labor and environmental protection. However, we do not exercise any control over the operations of our contract manufacturers or suppliers and are therefore not able to ensure their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Therefore, there can be no assurance that our contract manufacturers or suppliers are in compliance with, or will comply with, all applicable labor and environmental laws, rules and regulations with respect to their manufacturing operations. In the event that our contract manufacturers or suppliers violate any of these laws, rules or regulations, any resulting negative publicity may damage our brand and defeat our brand building efforts. In the event that we are named as a defendant in a lawsuit or any other proceeding arising from violations by our contract manufacturers or suppliers of any applicable laws, rules or regulations with respect to their manufacturing operations, we will incur costs and resources in defending ourselves in such a lawsuit or proceeding. As a result of the foregoing factors, our business, profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected. 9 Failure to continue to obtain high quality endorsers to promote our products could harm our business. We engage external educational institutions, former professional athletes and celebrities to promote our products and establish the credibility of our products with consumers. If any of the endorsers associated with our products were to stop using our products in violation of their endorsement agreements, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, actions taken by these endorsers that harm their reputations could in turn also harm our brand image with consumers, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial condition. In addition, poor performance by our endorsers in their fields, our failure to continue to identify correctly promising athletes and/or celebrities to use and endorse its products, or our failure to enter into endorsement arrangements with prominent athletes and sports organizations, could adversely affect our brand and result in decreased sales of our products. Failure to effectively promote or maintain the Xidelong brand may affect our performance and sales and cause us to incur significant costs. The image of the Xidelong brand is an important factor in influencing consumer preferences and building brand loyalty. Promoting and maintaining the Xidelong brand is therefore crucial to our success and growth within the PRC sportswear market. We have a branding and promotional department that deals mainly with media arrangements, sponsorships and other endorsement activities. We use a variety of media, such as television, newspapers, magazines, the Internet and outdoor billboard displays to build both regional and national brand recognition. We collaborate with athletes, media celebrities and industry experts on marketing and endorsement arrangements and they act as spokespersons for the Xidelong brand. For 2007, 2008 and 2009, we spent approximately 7.2%, 7.5% and 7.8%, respectively, of our annual revenue on advertising and promotional activities. If we are unsuccessful in promoting our Xidelong brand among its targeted consumer groups, the goodwill and consumer acceptance of our Xidelong brand may be eroded, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected. As we also promote our brand through athletes, media celebrities and spokespersons, our brand is partly dependent on the public perception of these individuals, over which we have no control. Any negative publicity, whether in the PRC or abroad, in relation to our brand or our brand representatives could have an adverse effect on the public’s perception of our brands, which could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. In addition, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs and expenses arising out of our brand-building activities, including sponsorships and increased advertising in regional and national newspapers, magazines, the Internet, television and billboard displays. These activities may not be successful in building the goodwill and profile of our brand, which could have a negative effect on our sales and results of operations. Our sales may be affected by seasonality, weather conditions and a number of other factors. We operate our business in the PRC and derive all of our revenue from these operations. Generally, PRC consumers’ spending behavior is stable year-on-year but varies seasonally, particularly during the Chinese New Year in early spring, the Labor Day holiday in early May, the summer months and the National Day holiday in early October. Generally, we experience moderate fluctuations in our aggregate sales volume during the year. Historically, revenues in the third and fourth fiscal quarters have slightly exceeded those in the first and second fiscal quarters. However, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of footwear, apparel and accessories. In addition, unexpected and abnormal changes in climate may affect sales of our products that are timed for release during a particular season. For example, the climate change resulted in an extended winter season from 2008 to 2009 in many regions in China. A longer winter adversely affected the delivery schedules to the distributors and the sales volumes of our spring and summer collections in the first quarter of 2009. Fluctuations in our sales may also result from a number of other factors including: · the timing of our competitors’ launch of new products; 10 · the timing of international and domestic sports events; · consumer acceptance of our new and existing products; · changes in the overall sportswear industry growth rates; · economic and demographic conditions that affect consumer spending and retail sales; · the mix of products ordered by our distributors; · the timing of the placement and delivery of distributor orders; and · variation in the expenditure necessary to support our business. As a result, we believe that comparisons of our operating results between any interim periods may not be meaningful and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. Our operations may be disrupted and our business, financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected by a failure in our facilities for reasons beyond our control. Our manufacturing operations could be disrupted for reasons beyond our control. The causes of disruptions may include extreme weather conditions, landslides, earthquakes, fires, natural catastrophes, raw material supply disruptions, equipment and system failures, labor force shortages, energy shortages, workforce actions or environmental issues. Any significant disruption to our operations could adversely affect our ability to make and sell products. In addition, the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of any of our manufacturing facilities and on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and/or the operations of our distributors. In May 2008, Wenchuan County of Sichuan Province, a region that is approximately 360 kilometers away from Chongqing City, suffered an earthquake with an 8.0 magnitude on the Richter Scale. 87 retail stores of our distributors were shut down as a result of the earthquake. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer any further losses in the future as a result of similar reasons beyond our control. We have a limited operating history and our historical results of operations of our apparel business may not be indicative of our future performance. Our business began when XDLong Fujian was established in September 2001. We therefore have a limited history of operation and the historical financial information in this registration statement may not necessarily reflect our future results of operation. There also may not be a sufficient basis to evaluate our future prospects. Further, since the commencement of our apparel business in 2003, we have outsourced all of our apparel production to contract manufacturers. We are currently examining plans to commence our own production of apparel. We have a limited operating history in the sale and marketing of apparel and do not have any experience in manufacturing apparel. As a result, the historical operating results of our apparel business may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating the performance of our apparel business going forward and may not be indicative of our future performance. If we are unable to increase our production capacity due to our internal production constraints or our inability to locate suitable contract manufacturers with sufficient production capacity of their own, our operating results may be adversely affected. We manufacture a significant portion of our footwear at our production facility in Jinjiang, Fujian province. We outsource the manufacturing of a portion of our footwear and all of our apparel and accessories to contract manufacturers. Although we produce a portion of our footwear products in house, we expect to continue to rely on contract manufacturers for the production of a portion of our footwear and all of our apparel and accessories. Therefore, our ability to continue to increase our sales depends on the successful expansion of our footwear production capacity at our production facility and the availability of contract manufacturers with sufficient production capacity of their own. If we are unable to continue to increase our internal production capacity or engage suitable contract manufacturers, our operating results may be adversely affected. 11 We may not be able to manage our growth effectively and our growth may slow down in the future. We have been expanding our business rapidly and intend to continue to do so either through organic growth or through acquisitions and investments in related businesses as we deem appropriate. Such expansion may place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Further, we have no prior experience in engaging in the management and operation of retail stores or retail business. We will need to manage our growth effectively, which may entail devising and implementing business plans, training and managing our growing workforce, managing costs and implementing adequate control and reporting systems in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that our personnel, procedures and controls will be managed effectively to support our future growth adequately. Failure to manage our expansion effectively may affect our success in executing our business plan and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, our growth in percentage terms may slow in the future. Accordingly, you should not rely on our historic growth rate as an indicator for our future growth rate. We may not be successful in our future expansion plans and may be unable to secure sufficient funding for such plans to further grow our business. Our business expansion plans will require us to increase investments in, and devote significant resources to, our brand promotion efforts, internal production capacities, research and design capabilities and the Xidelong sales distribution network operated by our distributors. If we fail to implement our future expansion plans, we may not achieve our growth target. Furthermore, our ability to obtain adequate funds to finance our expansion plans depends on our financial condition and results of operations, as well as other factors that may be outside our control, such as general market conditions, the performance of the PRC sportswear industry, and political and economic conditions in China. If additional capital is unavailable, we may be forced to abandon some or all of our expansion plans, as a result of which our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Loss of any key executive personnel or any failure to attract such personnel in the future will adversely impact our business and growth prospects. Our future success will depend on the continued service of our senior management. In particular, Mr. Lin Shuipan, chairman of the board and chief executive officer, has over 15 years’ experience in the sportswear industry and is responsible for our overall corporate strategies, planning and business development. His experience and leadership is critical to our operations and financial performance. We do not maintain any “key-man” insurance policy. If we lose the services of Mr. Lin or any of our key executive personnel and cannot replace them in a timely manner, such loss may reduce our competitiveness, and may adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and future prospects. In addition, our success depends significantly on other personnel and, in particular, our team of designers. Other international and domestic competitors that operate in the PRC may be able to offer more favorable compensation packages to recruit personnel whom we consider desirable. Our continued success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in order to manage our existing operations as well as our future growth. We may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain the personnel whom we need. Our staff expenses in relation thereto may increase significantly. This may adversely affect our ability to expand our business effectively. Failure to develop technically innovative products could adversely affect our competitiveness. While design and aesthetics of our products are important factors for consumer acceptance of our products, technical innovation in the design of footwear, apparel, and sports equipment is also essential to the commercial success of our products. Research and development plays a key role in technical innovation. We rely upon specialists in the fields of biomechanics, exercise physiology, engineering, industrial design and related fields, and other experts to develop cutting edge performance products. While we strive to produce products that help to reduce injury, enhance athletic performance and maximize comfort, our failure to introduce technical innovation in our products could result in a decline in consumer demand for our products. 12 Our research and development capabilities may be adversely affected if we are unable to renew the technology cooperation agreement with the China Institute of Sport Science. One element of our growth strategy is to continue to design and manufacture products through further investment in product design and research and development initiatives. We primarily rely on the China Institute of Sport Science for such research and development initiatives. Our technology cooperation agreement with the China Institute of Sport Science, General Administration of Sport of China is for a term of five years from October 20, 2006, which we may renew at our option. There can be no assurance, however, that the China Institute of Sport Science will comply with the terms and conditions of the agreement and the renewal provisions. If we do not renew the agreement or if the China Institute of Sport Science breaches the agreement prior to the expiration of its term for any reason, our research and development capabilities may be adversely affected. This could in turn have an indirect adverse effect to our results of operations and financial condition. We may be involved in litigation on intellectual property infringement or other litigation or regulatory proceedings, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. We may design products with elements that may inadvertently infringe copyright or other intellectual property rights, as a result of which other parties may initiate litigation or other proceedings against us. Responding to and defending these proceedings may require substantial costs and diversion of resources, and the result of these proceedings may be uncertain. Furthermore, our reputation may be adversely affected. We may be subject to other lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to its business from time to time. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management’s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. If we are unable to protect adequately our intellectual property, we may be involved in legal proceedings, which could be expensive and time consuming, and consumers may shift their preference away from our products. We believe that our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights are important to our brand, success and competitive position. We consider the Xidelong and ““ trademarks to be among our most valuable assets, and we have registered these trademarks in the PRC. In addition, we own other trademarks that we use in marketing our products. We periodically discover products that we believe are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. We may pursue litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our resources. If we are unsuccessful in challenging a party’s products based on trademark or design or utility patent infringement, continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. The actions we take to establish and protect trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products on grounds of violations of proprietary rights. Changes in existing laws and regulations or additional or stricter laws and regulations on environmental protection in the PRC may cause us to incur additional capital expenditures. Our production facility is located in Jinjiang, Fujian province and is subject to PRC environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations require enterprises engaged in manufacturing that may generate industrial waste to adopt effective measures to control and properly dispose of such waste. The relevant administrative department for environmental protection can levy fines for any violations of such environmental laws or regulations. For material violations, the PRC government may suspend or close any or all of our operations. There can also be no assurance that the PRC government will not change the existing laws or regulations or impose additional or stricter laws or regulation. Compliance with any of these additional or stricter laws or regulations may cause us to incur additional capital expenditure, which we may be unable to pass on to customers through higher prices for our products. 13 Our current insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the risks related to our operations. Our operations are subject to hazards and risks normally associated with manufacturing operations, which may cause damage to persons or property. Currently, we maintain insurance policies for damage to real property and for employer liability for personal injury of employees. We are not required under PRC law to maintain, and we do not maintain, any product liability insurance. If we were found liable for any product liability claim, we may be required to pay substantial damages. Even if we were successful in defending such a claim, we may incur substantial financial and other resources in defending such a claim. Under such circumstances, our financial results will be adversely affected. Depending on the outcome of any such claim, the reputation of Xidelong brand may also be adversely affected. Further, we do not maintain business interruption insurance or third party liability insurance against claims for property damage, personal injury and environmental liabilities. The occurrence of any of these events may result in interruption of our operations and subject us to significant losses or liabilities. Any losses or liabilities that are not covered by our current insurance policies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not in compliance with PRC laws and regulations, we may be subject to certain legal consequences under PRC law. Pursuant to the State-owned Land Use Right Transfer Contract for the grant of land use rights for the production site in Jinjiang, XDLong Fujian was required to commence construction by February 28, 2006. However, XDLong Fujian did not commence construction by such date. XDLong Fujian is applying to relevant local government agency to postpone construction on the land. However, it is possible that the local government will repossess the land before XDLong Fujian obtains an approval to postpone construction. The land covers an area of approximately 15,000 square meters and XDLong Fujian paid approximately RMB531,000 to the government as land grant fees. If the local government repossesses the land, we will lose our land use rights over the land and we will not be able to recover the land grant fees previously paid to the government. In addition, we will not be able to construct additional facilities on the land to implement our expansion plans. Under PRC law, a company must apply to the environmental protection authority in the PRC for an environmental protection examination and acceptance after completion of a construction project. XDLong China has not applied for an environmental protection examination and acceptance for a construction project that it finished. As a result, the environmental protection authority has the right to request XDLong China to rectify such non-compliance by applying for an environmental protection examination and acceptance within a specified period. If XDLong China fails to obtain an environmental protection examination and acceptance within the specified period of time, XDLong may be subject to a fine up to RMB50,000 or be ordered to suspend its operations. Difficulties in obtaining new credit facilities or acceleration of payments under existing credit facilities could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Under the current economic situation, banks and other financial institutions have tightened lending to businesses. As a result, businesses have difficulties in obtaining credit at commercially acceptable terms, or at all. While we obtained a new bank borrowing of RMB90.5 million in the year ended December 31, 2009, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain additional funding when the need arises if current economic situation persists. If we are unable to obtain new credit facilities and are unable to finance our liquidity or working capital requirements through cash flows from operating activities or other sources, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, certain of our existing credit facilities require consent from lenders in advance of a material change of ownership or change of business operations, including restructuring, mergers and acquisitions. As of December 31, 2009, an aggregate outstanding amount of RMB83.0 million of our outstanding loans requires such consent. Jingtian & Gongcheng, Windrace’s PRC counsel, is of the opinion that these loan agreements require consent for transactions that occur in the PRC. Therefore, offshore transactions such as the Acquisition should not require consents from the banks. In the event that the banks are of a different opinion and believe that the Acquisition constitutes a material change of ownership or change of business operations and therefore require consents in advance of such changes, we could be deemed as in breach of these agreements for not having obtained such consents in advance of relevant changes. If the banks accelerate our payment obligations under these agreements, our liquidity could be adversely affected. We relied on loans from Mr. Lin Shuipan, our Chief Executive Officer, in 2007, 2008 and 2009 for our expansion and the cessation of such shareholder support may affect our cash flows. We had advances from Mr. Lin Shuipan, our Chief Executive Officer, in the amount of approximately RMB82.5 million, RMB0.9 million, and RMB1.7 million in 2007, 2008 and 2009. These advances mainly served as short term funds to support the expansion of our footwear production facilities and the construction of our office building in Jinjiang. In the event that we fail to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations or obtain alternative financing to meet our operating expenditures in the future, our working capital will be constrained. 14 Our risk management and internal control systems improvements may not be adequate or effective, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have established risk management and internal control systems consisting of relevant organizational framework, policies, procedures and risk management methods that we believe are appropriate for our business operations, and we seek to continue to improve such risk management and internal control systems from time to time. However, due to the inherent limitations in the design and implementation of risk management and internal control systems, there can be no assurance that our risk management and internal control systems will be sufficiently effective in identifying and preventing all such risks. In addition, as some of our risk management and internal control policies and procedures are relatively new, we may need to establish and implement additional risk management and internal control policies and procedures to improve further our systems from time to time. Our risk management and internal control systems also depend on their implementation by our employees, there can be no assurance that such implementation will not involve any human errors or mistakes. If we fail to timely adapt and implement our risk management and internal control policies and procedures, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in their respective annual reports. This annual report does not include an attestation report of our registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Our management’s report was not subject to attestation by our registered public accounting firm pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities & Exchange Commission that permit us to provide only our management’s report in this annual report. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009. If we fail to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. As a result, any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ordinary shares. Furthermore, we may need to incur additional costs and use additional management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements going forward. Risks Relating to the Industry in Which We Operate Our products face intense competition, and we may not have the resources necessary to compete with competitors. We are a sports and leisure footwear, apparel and accessories company. This industry is highly competitive in the PRC and the competitors in this market include both international and domestic companies. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, research and development and design, marketing, distribution, management or other resources. Our results of operations could be affected by a number of competitive factors, including entry by new competitors into our current markets, expansion by existing competitors, better marketing/advertising leading to stronger brand equity for the competitors, and competition with other companies for the production capacity of contract manufacturers. Our results of operations and market position may be adversely impacted by these competitive pressures. 15 There can be no assurance that our strategies will remain competitive or that we will continue to be successful in the future. Increased competition could result in a loss of our market share. In particular, if our competitors adopt aggressive pricing policies, we may be forced to adjust the pricing of our products to level their competitiveness. This could adversely affect our profitability and financial results. We may not be able to predict or meet consumer preferences or demand accurately. We derive a significant amount of revenue from the sale of sports and leisurewear products that are subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences. Our sales and profits are sensitive to these changing preferences and our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product and fashion trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. All of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that we cannot predict with certainty. Our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of performance or other sports footwear or apparel or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. If we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences by adjusting the mix of existing product offerings, developing new products, designs and styles, or influencing sports and fitness preferences through vigorous marketing, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Consolidation of distributors or concentration of retail market share among a few distributors may increase and concentrate our credit risk and impair our ability to sell our products. The sports and leisure footwear, apparel, and accessories retail markets in the PRC are dominated by a few large sports and leisure footwear, apparel, and accessories distributors with many stores. These significant distributors may increase their market share by expanding through acquisitions or through the establishment of additional stores. The consolidation of distributors concentrates our credit risk in a relatively small number of distributors and, if any of these retailers were to experience a shortage of liquidity, it would increase the risk of nonpayment of their outstanding payables to us. In addition, any shifting concentration of market share to a small number of distributors in a particular county or region increases operational risks. If any one of them substantially reduces their purchases of our products, we may be unable to find a sufficient number of other retail stores for our products to sustain the same level of sales and revenues. Further, the consolidation of distributors could limit our ability to negotiate contract terms in our favor. For example, due to a small number of distributors existing in the industry to whom we can sell our products, our ability to sell products at the price level that we wish to may be adversely affected. If the selling prices to the distributors decrease, our profitability would be adversely affected. Risks Relating to the PRC All of the business and assets of Windrace, our wholly-owned subsidiary in which our business is conducted, are located in the PRC. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject, to a significant degree, to economic, political and legal developments in the PRC. Our future performance is dependent on the PRC economy and, in particular, the level of growth of the PRC consumer market. We derive all of our revenue from sales of our products in the PRC. The success of our business depends on the condition and growth of the PRC consumer market, which in turn depends on macro-economic conditions and individual income levels in the PRC. There is no assurance that projected growth rates of the PRC economy and the PRC consumer market will be realized under current economic situation. Any future slowdowns or declines in the PRC economy or consumer spending may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe that consumer spending habits may be adversely affected during a period of recession in the economy or that uncertainties regarding future economic prospects could also affect consumer spending habits, all of which may have an adverse effect on certain enterprises operating within the consumer and retail sectors, including us. The consumer and retail market may be affected by the changing operating conditions in the PRC. With accession of the PRC to the World Trade Organization (the “WTO”), changes and developments in the consumer and retail market may be volatile and unpredictable. For instance, the reduction in tariffs on foreign products after the liberalization of the PRC market and further entry of international brands may intensify the competition in the PRC market. This may have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. 16 Political, economic and social policies of the PRC government and PRC laws and regulations could affect our business and results of operations and may result in our inability to sustain our growth. The economy of the PRC differs from the economies of most developed countries in a number of respects, including: · its structure; · level of government involvement; · level of development; · level of capital reinvestment; · control of capital reinvestment; · control of foreign exchange; and · allocation of resources. Before its adoption of reform and open door policies beginning in 1978, China was primarily a planned economy. Since then, the PRC government has been reforming the PRC’s economic system, and has begun reforming the government structure in recent years. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth and social progress. Although the PRC government still owns a significant portion of the productive assets in the PRC, economic reform policies since the late 1970s have emphasized autonomous enterprises and the utilization of market mechanisms, especially where these policies apply to privately-owned businesses such as Windrace. Although we believe these reforms will have a positive effect on our overall and long-term development, we cannot predict whether changes in the PRC’s political, economic and social conditions, laws, regulations and policies will have an adverse impact on our current or future business, results of operations or financial condition. Our ability to continue to expand our business is dependent on a number of factors, including general economic and capital market conditions, and credit availability from banks or other lenders. In the past few years, the PRC government has articulated a need to control the rate of economic growth and may tighten its monetary policies, including increasing interest rates on bank loans and deposits and tightening the money supply to control growth in lending. Under current economic situation, financial institutions have tightened their lending. Stricter lending policies may, among other things, affect our ability to obtain financing, which may, in turn, adversely affect our growth and financial condition. As we conduct a significant portion of our business through subsidiaries in China, we are subject to PRC laws and regulations on labor and employee benefits. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented policies to strengthen the protection of employees and obligate employers to provide more benefits to their employees. In addition, an employment contract law came into effect in China on January 1, 2008. The PRC employment contract law and related legislations require more benefits to be provided to employees, such as an increase in pay or compensation for termination of employment contracts. As a result, we expect to incur higher labor costs, which could have an adverse impact on our current or future business, results of operations or financial condition. Additional changes in the PRC’s political, economic and social conditions, laws, regulations and policies could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Failure to comply with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange regulations relating to registration of interests before the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by our beneficial owners may adversely affect our business operations. On October 21, 2005, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange issued a public notice that became effective on November 1, 2005. The notice requires PRC residents to register with the local State Administration of Foreign Exchange branch before establishing or controlling any company, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company,” outside of the PRC for the purpose of capital financing (the “No. 75 SAFE Initial Registration”). Besides that, an alteration registration shall be filed after completing an investment in or acquisition of any operating subsidiaries in the PRC, which we refer to herein as a “round-trip investment,” and any change of shareholding or any other material capital alteration in such offshore special purpose company involving a round-trip investment shall also be filed within 30 days from the date of shareholding transfer or capital alteration, and the registration conducted under the above two situations is defined as the “No. 75 SAFE Alteration Registration.” 17 Mr. Lin Shuipan, Mr. Shi Jinlei and Ms. Chen Shuli are subject to the registration requirements under the No. 75 SAFE Notice, and have conducted the No. 75 SAFE Initial Registration with the Fujian Provincial State Administration of Foreign Exchange. After the offshore special purpose companies were established by the aforementioned persons, some round-trip investments by, and change of shareholders or other material capital alteration in, such offshore special purpose companies occurred, and Mr. Lin Shuipan, Mr. Shi Jinlei and Ms Chen are subject to the No. 75 Alteration Registration for the above events. Our PRC beneficial owners must comply with these requirements in connection with our future investments and financing activities. If our PRC beneficial owners fail to comply with the relevant requirements, such failure may subject the beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions, which may adversely affect our business operations. Our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, which is not freely convertible for capital account transactions and may be subject to exchange rate volatility. We are exposed to the risks associated with foreign exchange controls and restrictions in China, as our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, which is currently not freely exchangeable. The PRC government imposes control over the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies. Under the rules promulgated under the PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and operation-related expenditures, may be made in foreign currencies without prior approval but are subject to procedural requirements. Strict foreign exchange control continues to apply to capital account transactions. These transactions must be approved by or registered with the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange and repayment of loan principal, distribution of return on direct capital investment and investments in negotiable instruments are also subject to restrictions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet all of our foreign currency obligations or to remit profits out of China. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi and of the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition as well as on the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ordinary shares in foreign currency terms. For instance, a decline in the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of our financial results, the value of your investment in us and the dividends we may pay in the future, if any. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to liberalize further its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. The Renminbi may be revalued further against the U.S. dollar or other currencies, or may be permitted to enter into a full or limited free float, which may result in an appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or other currencies. We rely principally on dividends paid by our subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Windrace and Exceed are holding companies incorporated in British Virgin Islands and rely principally on dividends paid by their subsidiaries for cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. If any of our subsidiaries incurs debt in their own name in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict dividends or other distributions on its equity interest to Windrace and Exceed. 18 Furthermore, applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations permit payment of dividends by the consolidated PRC entities only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards, which differ in many aspects from generally accepted accounting principles in other jurisdictions including IFRS. Based on PRC accounting standards, the consolidated PRC entities are also required to set aside a certain percentage of their after-tax profit each year to their reserve fund in accordance with the requirements of relevant laws and provisions in their respective articles of associations, which are not available for distribution as cash dividends. As a result, the consolidated PRC entities are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net income to Windrace or Exceed whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends could materially adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10%, unless relevant treaties provide for a lower rate, is applicable to dividends paid by enterprises incorporated in the PRC to “non-resident enterprises” (enterprises that do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or that have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business) subject to the application of any relevant income tax treaty that the PRC has entered into. If Windrace, Exceed or our non-PRC incorporated subsidiaries are considered “nonresident enterprises,” any dividend that Windrace, Exceed or any such subsidiary receives from the PRC subsidiaries may be subject to PRC taxation at the 10% rate (or lower treaty rate). Any changes in PRC policies on enterprise income tax may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and our financial condition. Our subsidiaries are incorporated in the PRC, Hong Kong or the British Virgin Islands. On March 16, 2007, the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “new tax law”) was issued and on December 6, 2007, the Rules on the Implementation of Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC (“Implementation Rules”) were issued, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the new tax law, non-PRC tax resident enterprises will be taxed at a withholding tax rate of 5% for Hong Kong companies and 10% for British Virgin Islands companies. If an entity is deemed to be a PRC tax resident enterprise, which is an enterprise that is set up under PRC law within the territory of the PRC, or set up under the law of a foreign country or region but which has “de facto management organization” within the PRC, then qualified dividend and profit distribution from equity investment between them shall be exempted from withholding tax and income tax. Among other things, qualified dividend and profit distribution as stated in the new tax law shall refer to investment income derived by a PRC tax resident enterprise from the direct investment in other PRC tax resident enterprises, which shall exclude investment income from circulating stock issued publicly by PRC tax resident enterprises and traded on stock exchanges where the holding period is less than 12 months. Our subsidiaries may trigger withholding tax requirements in the future under the new tax law and the Implementation Rules, depending on their classification as a PRC or non-PRC tax resident enterprise. The new tax law provides that if an enterprise incorporated outside of the PRC has “de facto management organization” within the PRC, it may be recognized as a PRC tax resident enterprise and may be subject to a 25% enterprise income tax on its worldwide income. According to the Implementation Rules, “de facto management organization” means the institution that materially and comprehensively manages and controls the enterprise’s business, personnel, finance and assets. Given the short history of the tax law and the Implementation Rules, how an enterprise qualifies for tax exemptions remains unclear. Our ability to pay dividends and our financial condition may be adversely affected as a result of the new tax law and other changes in PRC policies and regulations on dividend distributions, withholding tax, and enterprise income tax. All of our management is currently substantially based in the PRC, and may remain in the PRC after the new tax law takes effect. Therefore, we may be treated as a PRC resident enterprise for new tax law purposes. The tax consequences of such treatment are currently unclear as they will depend on the implementation regulations and on how local tax authorities apply or enforce the new tax law or the implementation regulations. The levy and collection of enterprise income tax in China are handled by various local governments, which in turn submit such tax revenues to their respective higher administrative authorities. Each local government has its own administrative practice with regard to the manner and the amount of tax submitted by the local government to its higher administrative authorities. PRC enterprises, including us, have no participation in or control over such administrative practices. Any discrepancies in implementation among the local governments of such administrative practice may result in uncertainties over the amount of tax for which a PRC enterprise is liable. 19 Fluctuations in the exchange rate may adversely affect us. Substantially all of our revenues and expenditures are denominated in Renminbi. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollars and Renminbi will affect our financial results in U.S. dollars terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. The Renminbi’s exchange rate with the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The exchange rate for conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies is heavily influenced by intervention in the foreign exchange market by the People’s Bank of China. From 1995 until July 2005, the People’s Bank of China intervened in the foreign exchange market to maintain an exchange rate of approximately 8.3 Renminbi per U.S. dollar. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed this policy and began allowing modest appreciation of the Renminbi versus the U.S. dollar. However, the Renminbi is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 0.5% per day versus the U.S. dollar, and the People’s Bank of China continues to intervene in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate. Nevertheless, under China’s current exchange rate regime, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantial liberalization of its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. An outbreak of the H1N1 swine flu, H5N1 strain of bird flu (Avian Flu), Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) or any other similar epidemic may, directly or indirectly, adversely affect Windrace’s operating results. The recent outbreak of the H1N1 swine flu in North America and Europe has caused governments to take measures to prevent spread of the virus. In addition, there have been reports of swine flu cases in Asia. If the H1N1 virus further spreads in Asia, including China, epidemic could negatively affect the Asian economy. Past occurrences of epidemics have caused different degrees of damage to the national and local economies in China. China encountered epidemics such as SARS and incidents of the Avian Flu, which is spread through poultry populations, and is capable in certain circumstances of being transmitted to humans causing death. If any of our employees are identified as a possible source of spreading the swine flu, the Avian Flu or any other similar epidemic, we may be required to quarantine employees that are suspected of being infected, as well as others that have come into contact with those employees. We may also be required to disinfect our affected premises, which could cause a temporary suspension of our manufacturing capacity, thus adversely affecting operations. An outbreak of swine flu or a recurrence of an outbreak of SARS, Avian Flu or any other similar epidemic could restrict the level of economic activities generally and/or slow down or disrupt our business activities, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. Power shortages in the PRC may disrupt our business. Our manufacturing processes consume substantial amounts of electricity supplied by local power grids. Certain cities in the PRC have experienced power shortages in the past or been subjected to restrictions in electricity consumption. A power shortage could affect or delay our production schedule. We maintain backup power generators to provide electricity to our machinery and equipment in case of electricity supply interruptions. However, there is no assurance that we will always have adequate supply of electricity to meet our production requirements and our results of operations may be adversely affected in the event of any material interruption in electricity supply. An extended interruption in the power supply may also affect the operations of the Xidelong retail stores and result in a decrease in revenue. Risks Related to Investment in our Ordinary Shares The market price for our ordinary shares may be volatile. The trading price of our ordinary shares may be subject to fluctuations. During the period from October 13, 2009, the first day on which our ordinary shares were listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, until April 6, 2010, the trading prices of our ordinary shares ranged from $7.85 to $13.69 per ordinary shares and the closing sale price on April 6, 2010 was $9.78 per ordinary share. The market price for our ordinary shares may continue to be volatile and subject to fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; 20 · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other sportswear companies; · additions or departures of our directors, executive officers and key research personnel; and · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares. In addition, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price and trading volumes for our ordinary shares. Some of these companies have experienced significant volatility. The trading performances of these companies’ securities at the time of or after their offerings may affect the overall investor sentiment towards PRC companies listed in the United States and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ordinary shares. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ordinary shares in the public market could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. Sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of our ordinary shares, the prevailing market price for our ordinary shares could be adversely affected. In addition, we may issue additional ordinary shares for future acquisitions. If we pay for our future acquisitions in whole or in part with additionally issued ordinary shares, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, in the event we conduct any rights offerings in the future, you may be unable to participate in such offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. We conduct our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, our directors and executive officers, and some of the experts named in this annual report, reside within China, and most of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the British Virgin Islands and of the PRC may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Since we are a British Virgin Islands company, the rights of our shareholders may be more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Under the laws of some jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith, and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. British Virgin Island law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in some U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, the circumstances under which a shareholder of a British Virgin Islands company may file derivative actions against the company, and the procedures and defenses that may be available to the company, may result in the rights of shareholders of a British Virgin Islands company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. 21 Item 