Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks as well as the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements, before investing in shares of our common stock. As indicated earlier in this annual report on Form 10-K under the title “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” certain information contained in this annual report are forward-looking statements. If any of the following events actually occur or risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow could be materially adversely affected and could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements in this annual report on Form 10-K. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business in General We may be required to incur additional indebtedness or raise additional capital to fund our operations, repay our indebtedness, fund capital expenditures, or make acquisitions, and this additional cash may not be available to us on satisfactory timing or terms or at all. Our ability to generate cash depends in part on general economic, financial, legislative and regulatory conditions in the markets which we serve and as they relate to the industries in which we do business and other factors outside of our control. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from foreclosures (approximately 36% of our total revenues in 2012), so legislation, loss mitigation, loan modifications, short sales and other factors that significantly reduce or delay foreclosures may adversely impact our ability to use cash flow from operations to fund day-to-day operations in our mortgage default processing services segment and Professional Services Division, and, to a lesser extent, our Business Information Division, to repay our indebtedness, to fund capital expenditures, to meet our cash flow needs and to pursue an expansion of our business through acquisitions or increased capital spending. We may, therefore, need to incur additional indebtedness or raise funds from the sale of additional equity. Financing, however, may not be available to us at all, at an acceptable cost or on acceptable terms, when needed. Our existing bank credit facility may also limit our ability to raise additional funds through debt or equity financing. In addition, if we issue a significant amount of additional equity securities, the market price of our common stock could decline and our stockholders could suffer significant dilution of their interests in us. Our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt instruments could result in an event of default that could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to operate our business as planned if we are not successful in obtaining a waiver of our failure to comply with our covenants. We have, and will continue to have, significant debt and debt service obligations. Our credit agreement contains, and any agreements to refinance our debt likely will contain, financial and restrictive covenants that require us to meet certain quarterly financial metrics and that limit our ability to incur additional debt, including to finance future operations or other capital needs, and to engage in other activities that we may believe are in our long-term best interests, including to dispose of or acquire assets. As of June 30, 2012, we expected to fall short of our earned minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant and as of September 30, 2012, we expected to fall short of our earned minimum adjusted EBITDA and cash flow leverage ratio covenant, and we obtained waivers of compliance with that covenant for those periods from the required lenders. Additionally, on October 5, 2012, we entered into an amendment to our Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement that modified this and other financial covenants and applied to covenant compliance assessment for the third quarter of 2012. Our failure to comply with the covenants in our credit agreement may result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the banks accelerating the maturity of our indebtedness or preventing us from accessing availability under our credit facility. In addition, our lenders may require us to prepay outstanding indebtedness under the credit facility. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient cash resources to satisfy our debt obligations and we may not be able to continue our operations as planned. In addition, the indebtedness under our credit agreement is secured by a security interest in substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets, including the equity interests of our subsidiaries, and therefore, if we are unable to repay such indebtedness the banks could foreclose on these assets and sell the pledged equity interests, which would adversely affect our ability to operate our business. 15 Table of Contents If our indefinite-lived intangible assets (including goodwill) or finite-lived intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. In the course of our operating history, we have acquired numerous assets and businesses. Some of our acquisitions have resulted in the recording of a significant amount of indefinite-lived and finite-lived intangible assets on our financial statements. At December 31, 2012, our indefinite-lived intangible assets (including goodwill) were $151.3 million, in the aggregate, and our finite-lived intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, were $162.2 million. If we acquire new assets or businesses in the future, as we generally intend to do, we may record additional goodwill or other intangible assets. We assess our goodwill for impairment on an annual basis using a measurement date of November 30. Accounting standards require that we also assess the impairment of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets whenever events, circumstances or other conditions indicate that we may not recover the carrying value of the asset. This may require us to conduct an interim assessment of our goodwill and finite-lived intangible assets. As a result of this interim assessment, we may record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or identifiable intangible assets is determined. A significant charge to earnings, if taken, could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and future earnings. For example, we determined that our goodwill as of September 30, 2012, in the Mortgage Default Processing Services reporting unit was fully impaired. We then determined there was no additional impairment of our goodwill at the annual measurement date of November 30. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets” later in this report for information about our annual test of goodwill impairment. We recorded an impairment charge of $163.5 million, in the aggregate, in 2012 related to discontinued operations and impaired assets. Future circumstances could result in significant charges to earnings, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and future earnings. We depend on key personnel and we may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any of our key personnel or are unable to attract qualified personnel in the future. We rely heavily on our senior management team because they have substantial experience with our diverse product and service offerings and business strategies. In addition, we rely on our senior management team to identify internal expansion and external growth opportunities. Our ability to retain senior management and other key personnel is therefore very important to our future success. We have employment agreements with our senior management, but these employment agreements do not ensure that they will not voluntarily terminate their employment with us. In addition, our key personnel are subject to non-competition restrictions, which generally restrict such employees from working for competing businesses for one year after the end of their employment with us. But these non-compete provisions are not always enforceable. We do not have key man insurance for any of our current management or other key personnel. The loss of any key personnel would require the remaining key personnel to divert immediate attention to seeking a replacement. Competition for senior management personnel is intense, and fit is important to us. An inability to find a suitable replacement for any departing executive officer or key employee on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. We are subject to risks relating to litigation due to the nature of our product and service offerings. We may, from time to time, be subject to or named as a party in libel actions, negligence claims, contract claims, infringement claims and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business given the editorial content of our business information products, the rules with which our litigation support services and mortgage default processing businesses must comply, the deadlines these businesses must meet, the vast amounts of sensitive data with which our businesses deal, and the technologies we use and create in our businesses. We could incur significant legal expenses and our management’s attention may be diverted from our operations in defending ourselves against and resolving claims. An adverse resolution of any future lawsuit or claim against us could result in a negative perception of us, cause the market price of our common stock to decline, and have an adverse effect on our operating results and growth prospects. 16 Table of Contents We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we may encounter disputes from time to time relating to our or others’ use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, patents, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States to protect our rights to our key marks and distinctive logos. These measures may not be adequate, or we may not have secured or be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to use our trademarks, confidential information, inventions and other proprietary rights. Our management’s attention may be diverted by these attempts and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. Third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of trademarks, copyrights, patents or other proprietary rights. Some third party proprietary rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid those intellectual property rights. Any such claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. Our general liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter our business or pay monetary damages, which may be significant. We rely on our proprietary case management software systems, our document hosting, processing, conversion and review systems, and our websites and online networks, and a disruption, failure or security compromise of these systems may disrupt our business, damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our proprietary case management software systems are critical to our mortgage default processing service business because they enable us to efficiently and timely service a large number of foreclosure, bankruptcy, eviction and, to a lesser extent, litigation and other mortgage default related case files. Our litigation support services businesses rely upon proprietary document hosting, conversion, processing and review systems that facilitate our efficient processing of documents, data, document review, appellate briefs, records and appendices. Similarly, we rely on our websites, online networks, and email notification systems to provide timely, relevant and dependable business information to our customers. Therefore, network or system shutdowns caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural disasters and similar events, could have an adverse impact on our operations, customer satisfaction and revenues due to degradation of service, service disruption or damage to equipment and data. In addition to shutdowns, our systems are subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information, including sensitive case data maintained in our document and data management systems and credit card information for our business information customers. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, ongoing attempts to hack and misuse companies’ information, and legislation that continues to be adopted regarding the protection and security of personal information, information-related costs and risks are increasing, particularly for businesses like ours that handle a large amount of personal and confidential data. Disruptions or security compromises of our systems could result in large expenditures to repair or replace such systems, to remedy any security breaches and protect us from similar events in the future. We also could be exposed to negligence claims or other legal proceedings brought by our customers or their clients, and we could incur significant legal expenses and our management’s attention may be diverted from our operations in defending ourselves against and resolving lawsuits or claims. In addition, if we were to suffer damage to our reputation as a result of any system failure or security compromise, NDeX’s customers and/or their clients could choose to send fewer foreclosure, bankruptcy or eviction case files to us and/or our law firm customers. Any reduction in the number of case files handled by our customers would also reduce the number of mortgage default case files handled by us. Similarly, our litigation support services clients may elect to use other service providers. In addition, customers of our Business Information Division may seek out alternative sources of the business information available on our web sites and email notification systems. Further, in the event that any disruption or security compromise constituted a material breach under our services agreements, our law firm or litigation support services customers could terminate these agreements. In any of these cases, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. The market price of our common stock depends on a variety of factors, which could cause our common stock to trade at prices below the price you have paid. Our common stock has traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “DM” since August 2, 2007. Since that time, the closing sales price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $30.84 to a low of $2.53 per share. The market price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could affect our share price include, but are not limited to: • variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • changes in the legal or regulatory environment affecting our business; • changes in our earnings estimates or expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • the contents of published research reports about us or our industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • any issues related to our debt covenants or indebtedness that may occur in the future; • announcements by us or others and developments affecting us; • actions by institutional stockholders; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • speculation or reports by the press or investment community with respect to us or our industry in general; • future offerings of debt or equity; • future offerings of our common stock in the public market; • general economic, market and political conditions; and • the occurrence of, or heightened public concern regarding, the risk factors listed in this Item 1A. These factors could cause our common stock to trade at prices below the price you paid for our common stock, which could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above this price. In addition, the stock market in general, and the New York Stock Exchange in particular, has from time to time, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of individual securities. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of publicly traded companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our operations. We may pursue additional acquisition opportunities, which we may not do successfully and which may subject us to considerable business and financial risks. We have grown through opportunistic acquisitions of professional services and business information businesses, and over time we may continue to pursue additional acquisition opportunities. While we evaluate potential acquisitions on an ongoing basis, we may not be successful in assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of acquisition opportunities or completing acquisitions on acceptable terms. For example, to the extent that market studies performed by third parties are not accurate indicators of market and business trends, we may not appropriately evaluate or realize the future market growth or business opportunities in targeted geographic areas and business lines that we expect from an acquisition. Furthermore, we may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities, and suitable acquisition opportunities may not be made available or known to us. In addition, we may compete for certain acquisition targets with companies that have greater financial resources than we do. Our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities may also be limited by non-competition provisions to which we are subject. For example, our abilities to carry public notices in Michigan and to provide mortgage default processing services in Indiana and Minnesota are limited by contractual non-competition provisions. We may finance future acquisitions through cash provided by operating activities, borrowings under our bank credit facility, to the extent allowed by the terms of the credit facility; and/or other debt or equity financing, including takedowns on our $200 million shelf registration statement filed on January 25, 2013. All of these financing mechanisms could reduce our cash available for other purposes or, in the case of a common stock or other equity offering under our shelf registration statement, substantially dilute your investment in us. For example, we were required to incur additional indebtedness to fund the acquisitions of Barrett-NDEx, DiscoverReady, and ACT, and this additional debt consumed a significant portion of our ability to borrow and may limit our ability to pursue other acquisitions or growth strategies. 18 Table of Contents We may incur significant expenses while pursuing acquisitions, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions that we complete may expose us to particular business and financial risks that include, but are not limited to: • diverting management’s time, attention and resources from managing our business; • incurring additional indebtedness and assuming liabilities; • incurring significant additional capital expenditures and operating expenses to improve, coordinate or integrate managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems; • experiencing an adverse impact on our earnings from non-recurring acquisition-related charges or the write-off or amortization of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets; • failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • failing to implement or maintain our centralized accounting, circulation, and information systems effectively and efficiently because of additional demands from expanded business; • endangering our compliance with applicable rules and regulations as the size and complexity of our business increases; • facing operational difficulties in new markets or with new product or service offerings; and • failing to retain key personnel and customers of the acquired businesses, including subscribers and advertisers for acquired publications, clients of the law firm customers served by acquired mortgage default processing and other customers served by acquired mortgage default processing and litigation support services businesses. We may not be able to successfully manage acquired businesses or increase our cash flow from these operations. If we are unable to successfully implement our acquisition strategy or address the risks associated with acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired, we may fail to achieve acquisition synergies and we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than other profitable areas. In addition, the increased costs associated with our acquisitions and capital expenditures aimed at organic growth may not be offset by corresponding increases in our revenues, which would decrease our operating margins. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that you may consider favorable or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock and your rights as a holder of our common stock. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws (1) permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock with rights and preferences designated by our board, (2) stagger the terms of our board of directors into three classes and (3) impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at stockholders’ meetings. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. In addition, our bank credit facility contains provisions that could limit our ability to enter into change of control transactions. 19 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Professional Services Division If the number of case files referred to us by our mortgage default processing service law firm customers (or loan servicers and mortgage lenders we serve directly for mortgage default files in California) decreases or fails to increase, or if regulatory, market or other factors cause our law firm customers or their clients to fail to timely pay for our services, or to pay at all, or if the fees paid to us do not provide an adequate margin above our costs of providing these services, our operating results and ability to execute our long-term growth strategy could be adversely affected. NDeX has six law firm customers and provides mortgage default professing services directly to lenders and loan servicers for residential real estate in California. Revenues from NDeX constituted 52% and 60% of our Professional Services Division’s revenues in 2012 and 2011, respectively, and 36% and 42% of our total revenues in 2012 and 2011, respectively. We are paid different fixed fees for each foreclosure, bankruptcy, eviction, litigation, and other mortgage default related case files referred by these six law firms to us for processing services. Therefore, the success of NDeX and our mortgage default processing services segment is tied to the number of these case files that each of our law firm customers receives from their mortgage lending and mortgage loan servicing firm clients and the number of California foreclosure files we receive directly from our mortgage lender and loan servicer customers, as well as the fees that we able to negotiate for our services. In 2012, our largest law firm customer was the Barrett Law Firm, who represented 53% of our mortgage default processing services revenues and 48% of the accounts receivable for mortgage default processing services. Trott & Trott was our second largest law firm customer in 2012, and accounted for 27% of these revenues. Also, in 2012, the top ten clients for all of our law firm customers, on an aggregated basis, accounted for 80% of the case files our law firm customers directed to us for mortgage default processing services. Our operating results and ability to execute our growth strategy could be adversely affected if (1) any of our law firm customers lose business from their clients; (2) these clients are affected by changes in the market and industry or other factors that cause them to be unable to pay for the services of our law firm customer or reduce the volume of files referred to our law firm customers which they direct us to process; (3) the fees we are paid do not provide us an acceptable margin on our services, or (4) our law firm customers are unable to attract business from current or new clients for any reason, including any of the following: the provision of poor legal services, the loss of key attorneys (such as David A. Trott, who has developed and maintains a substantial amount of Trott & Trott’s client relationships), the desire of the law firm’s clients to allocate files among several law firms, or a decrease in the number of residential mortgage foreclosures in the states where we do business, including due to market factors or governmental action. A failure by one or more of our law firm customers to pay us the full amount owed to us, or to pay fees which adequately cover our costs of providing the services, as a result of these or other factors could materially reduce the cash flow of NDeX and result in losses in our mortgage default processing services segment. Further, to the extent that the law firm clients direct the law firms to use another provider of mortgage default processing services or those clients conduct such services in-house, the number of files we process would be adversely affected. We could also lose any law firm customer if we materially breach our services agreement with such customer. Laws enacted to reduce foreclosures, voluntary foreclosure relief and avoidance programs, and delays by servicers or lenders, as well as governmental investigations, litigation, court orders, and settlements have had an adverse effect on our mortgage default processing services and public notice operations, and the adverse effect could increase as the marketplace continues to absorb the consequences of the new laws, regulations, and orders, and as new bills and regulations are introduced in the future. Since 2008, federal, state and local governmental entities and leaders have focused significant attention on foreclosures. Some of the legislation and other actions have had an adverse impact on the number of mortgage default case files NDeX has been asked to process, the length of time and amount of work it takes to process such files, the time over which we recognize revenue associated with the processing of those files, our margins on our services, and the number of foreclosure public notices placed in our Business 20 Table of Contents Information products and DLNP (our equity method investment) for publication. The past year continued to include legislation and agency actions aimed at mitigating foreclosures, additional scrutiny on mortgage foreclosures, and voluntary stoppages of foreclosures by servicers and lenders. The state attorneys general continued to review the country’s foreclosure processes, which culminated in a multi-state settlement in 2012. The significant focus by various governmental entities and leaders may continue to result in new and increased governmental regulation and agency actions of residential mortgage products or the foreclosure of delinquent loans. Past programs have included compliance deadlines over time and therefore even existing governmental actions may continue to have new effects on the marketplace in the future. If new or more stringent regulations are enacted, or if future deadlines included in past government programs have future effects on our customers and/or their clients, our number of mortgage default files that our law firm customers direct us to process (or that we receive for processing from our California mortgage lender and loan servicer customers) or our profitability on the files we do receive could be adversely effected. Given the intense scrutiny, lawsuits, regulatory actions, and legislated or agreed process changes that residential mortgage foreclosure servicers have experienced in the past two and one-half years, servicers have continued to react by reviewing, verifying and changing their policies and procedures, applying more steps, checks, and reviews to pending foreclosures, and releasing into foreclosure only those cases that have been carefully reviewed and are in compliance with all new requirements. Many servicers also reacted to this environment of increased scrutiny by requesting additional information and process verification from law firms and other third-party vendors. These servicer actions have continued to reduce the margins and the number of mortgage defaults being referred to begin foreclosure. Voluntary programs and other actions to decrease or delay foreclosure by lenders and servicers may continue to slow the pace of referrals, increase the work we must do on files, and reduce the margin on our services. These and other laws, proposed legislation, investigations, directives, voluntary programs, actions, plans, audits, settlements and court orders, have delayed, and may delay or reduce in the future, the referral of files to our law firm customers, or in the case of foreclosures on properties located in California, the referral of files directly to us for processing. In addition, they may continue to increase the processing time and effort required for the foreclosure files between the referral to the attorney or trustee and the foreclosure sale. In some instances they may continue to increase the time over which we recognize revenue associated with the processing of such files, may reduce margins, or may make it more difficult for our law firm customers or their clients to timely pay for our services. Similarly, new or more stringent bills, regulations and court orders could adversely affect when public notices are sent to our business information products or DLNP (our minority investment) for publication. If legislation settlements, court orders or programs are successful in reducing the number of mortgages going into default, then the number of foreclosure public notices referred to us or DLNP for publication will also be reduced. If any of these occur, it could have a negative impact on our earnings and growth. Certain senior employees of NDeX are also shareholders and principal attorneys of our law firm customers and therefore, may under certain circumstances have interests that differ from or conflict with our interests. Certain executive vice presidents and senior executives of NDeX are also the principal attorneys and shareholders of NDeX’s six law firm customers. For example, until February 2013, NDeX’s chairman was David A. Trott, and Jay Frappier continues to be a senior vice president of NDeX. Other senior executives with NDeX also are shareholders and principal attorneys of our law firm customers. In addition, certain members of the senior management at Barrett-NDEx own an interest in NDeX and have the right to require that we redeem their interest (See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Noncontrolling Interest” later in this report). As a result of these relationships with NDeX and our law firm customers, Mr. Frappier and other senior individuals may experience conflicts of interest in the execution of their duties on behalf of us. The resolutions of these conflicts might not be in a manner favorable to us. For example, they may be precluded by their ethical obligations as attorneys or may otherwise be reluctant to take actions on behalf of us that are in our best interests, but may not be in the best interests of their law firms or their clients. Further, as licensed attorneys, they may be obligated to take actions on behalf of their law firms or their respective clients that are not in our best interests. In addition, Mr. Trott has other direct and indirect relationships with DLNP and other vendors NDeX uses that could cause similar conflicts. See “Related Party Transactions and Policies — David A. Trott” in our proxy statement and Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for a description of these relationships. 21 Table of Contents We are highly dependent on the skills and knowledge of the individuals serving as chief executive officer and president of DiscoverReady as none of our executive officers had managed or operated a discovery management or document processing and review services company prior to our acquisition of this business. We acquired an 85.0% equity interest in DiscoverReady on November 2, 2009, and currently own 90.1% of these interests. DR Holdco LLC owns the remaining 9.9% membership interest in DiscoverReady. DR Holdco is a limited liability company owned by James K. Wagner, Jr. and Steven R. Harber, DiscoverReady’s chief executive officer and president, respectively, along with other DiscoverReady employees. DiscoverReady provides outsourced discovery management and document hosting, processing and review services to major United States and global companies and law firms. Prior to our acquisition of this business, our executive officers had not managed or operated a discovery management and document review business. Thus, we rely heavily on the management skills and experiences of Messrs. Wagner and Harber, who co-founded and built DiscoverReady and have a deep understanding of the discovery management and document processing and review business. If our executive officers cannot effectively manage and operate this business, the operating results and prospects for DiscoverReady, our litigation support services segment and our Professional Services Division may be adversely affected and we may not be able to execute our growth strategy with respect to DiscoverReady. We have employment agreements with Messrs. Wagner and Harber; however, these employment agreements do not ensure that either of them will not voluntarily terminate their employment with us. We do not have key man insurance for either of Messrs. Wagner or Harber. The loss of Wagner or Harber could require our executive officers to divert immediate attention to seeking a replacement and operating a business in which our executive officers have no prior experience. Our inability to find a suitable replacement for Wagner or Harber on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow DiscoverReady. DiscoverReady’s business revenues have traditionally been concentrated among a few customers and if these large repeat customers choose to manage their discovery with their own staff or with another provider and if we are unable to develop new customer relationships, our operating results and the ability to execute our growth strategy at DiscoverReady may be adversely affected. DiscoverReady generates revenue through fee-based arrangements for outsourced discovery management and document hosting, processing and review services with major United States and global companies and law firms. DiscoverReady’s top customer, which is in the financial services industry, accounted for 42% of its total revenues for 2012. Both the traditional DiscoverReady business and ACT, which DiscoverReady acquired in July 2011, have succeeded primarily through strong relationships with certain repeat clients and by working on large matters from repeat clients and new clients. Thus, the success of DiscoverReady is tied to our relationships with our key customers and our ability to continuously develop new customer relationships. Our operating results and ability to execute our growth strategy for DiscoverReady could be adversely affected if we lose business from our top repeat customers or we are unable to attract additional business from current or new customers for any reason, including any of the following: poor service, the loss of key employees, or the decision of our customers to perform document review services with their own staff or to use another provider. If any of these were to occur, it could reduce the cash flow of DiscoverReady and adversely affect the results of operations of this business. Regulation of the legal profession may constrain the operations of the businesses in our Professional Services Division, and numerous related issues could impair our ability to provide professional services to our customers and reduce our revenues and profitability. Each state has adopted laws, regulations and codes of ethics that provide for the licensure of attorneys, which grants attorneys the exclusive right to practice law and places restrictions upon the activities of licensed attorneys. The boundaries of the “practice of law,” however, are indistinct, vary from one state to another and are the product of complex interactions among state law, bar associations and constitutional law formulated by the U.S. Supreme Court. Many states define the practice of law to include the giving of advice and opinions regarding another person’s legal rights, the preparation of legal documents or the preparation of court documents for another person. In addition, all states and the American Bar Association prohibit attorneys from sharing fees for legal services with non-attorneys. 22 Table of Contents Pursuant to services agreements between NDeX and its law firm customers, we provide mortgage default processing services to law firms and directly to mortgage lenders and loan servicers on California foreclosure files. Through DiscoverReady, we provide outsourced discovery management and document hosting, processing, and review services. Through Counsel Press, we provide procedural and technical knowledge and services to law firms and attorneys to assist them in filing appellate briefs, records and appendices on behalf of their clients that comply with court rules. Current laws, regulations and codes of ethics related to the practice of law pose the following principal risks: • State or local bar associations, state or local prosecutors or other persons may challenge the services provided by NDeX, Counsel Press or DiscoverReady as constituting the unauthorized practice of law. Any such challenge could have a disruptive effect upon the operations of our business, including the diversion of significant time and attention of our senior management. We may also incur significant expenses in connection with such a challenge, including substantial fees for attorneys and other professional advisors. If a challenge to any of these businesses were successful, we may need to materially modify our professional services operations in a manner that could adversely affect that division’s revenues and profitability and we could be subject to a range of penalties that could damage our reputation in the legal markets we serve. In addition, any similar challenge to the operations of NDeX’s law firm customers could adversely impact their mortgage default business, which would in turn adversely affect our mortgage default processing segment and Professional Service Division’s revenues and profitability; • The services agreements to which NDeX is a party could be deemed to be unenforceable if a court were to determine that such agreements constituted an impermissible fee sharing arrangement between the law firm and NDeX; and • Applicable laws, regulations and codes of ethics, including their interpretation and enforcement, could change in a manner that restricts NDeX’s, Counsel Press’ or DiscoverReady’s operations. Any such change in laws, policies or practices could increase our cost of doing business or adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Failure to effectively customize our proprietary case management software systems so that they can be used to serve law firm customers in new states could adversely affect our mortgage default processing service business and growth prospects. We have two proprietary case management software systems, each of which stores, manages and reports on the large amount of data associated with each foreclosure, bankruptcy or eviction case file we process. Our law firm customers must satisfy different requirements depending on the state in which they serve their clients. When we enter a service agreement with a law firm customer in a state where we do not currently do business, we need to customize one of our proprietary case management software systems so that it can be used to assist that customer in satisfying the foreclosure requirements of their state. If we are not, on a timely basis, able to effectively customize one of our case management software systems to serve our new law firm customers, we may not be able to realize the operational efficiencies and increased capacity to handle files that we anticipated when we entered the service agreements. At times, we base the fees we agree to receive from these law firm customers for each case file they direct us to process on the assumption that we would realize those operational efficiencies. Therefore, the failure to effectively customize our case management software system could impact our profitability under our services agreement with new law firm customers in our mortgage default processing services segment. To the extent that we are unable to effectively migrate those operations, we may not be able to realize the operational efficiencies and capacity to handle files that we experienced prior to the migration. 23 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business Information Division We depend on the economies and the demographics of our targeted sectors in the local and regional markets that we serve, and changes in those factors could have an adverse impact on our revenues, cash flows and profitability. Our advertising revenues and, to a lesser extent, circulation revenues depend upon a variety of factors specific to the legal, financial and real estate sectors of the 19 markets our Business Information Division serves. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the population, including the number of companies and professionals in our targeted business sectors, and local economic conditions affecting these sectors. For example, if the local economy or targeted business sector in a market we serve experiences a downturn, display and classified advertising, which constituted 30%, 29% and 27% of our Business Information revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, generally decreases for our business information products that target such market or sector. This was the case in 2009, when our display and classified advertising revenues decreased $5.2 million from 2008, due to a decrease in the number of ads placed in our publications as customers tightened discretionary spending in response to the local economic conditions in the markets we serve. Further, if the local economy in a market we serve experiences growth, public notices, which constituted 43%, 42% and 55% of our Business Information revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, may decrease as a result of fewer foreclosure proceedings requiring the posting of public notices. Our Business Information Division’s revenues could be particularly affected by economic or demographic changes in Minnesota or Missouri because revenues from our publications targeting each of these markets accounted for more than 10% of this division’s revenues in 2012 and/or 2011. If the level of advertising in our business information products or public notices in our court and commercial newspapers were to decrease, our revenues, cash flows and profitability could be adversely affected. A change in the laws governing public notice requirements, as well as new or increased regulation of residential mortgage products, may delay, reduce or eliminate the amount of public notices required to be published in print, affect how newspapers are chosen for the publication of public notices or adversely change the eligibility requirements for publishing public notices, which could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and growth opportunities. In various states, legislatures have considered proposals that would eliminate or reduce the number of public notices required by statute. In addition, some state legislatures have proposed that state and local governments publish official government notices themselves online. The impetus for the passage of such laws may increase as online alternatives to print sources of information become more generally accepted. Some states have also proposed, enacted or interpreted laws to alter the frequency with which public notices are required to be published, reduce the amount of information required to be disclosed in public notices or change the requirements for publications to be eligible to publish public notices. In addition, new or increased government regulation of residential mortgage defaults may result in fewer or delayed foreclosures and, therefore, the publication of fewer related public notices or a delay in the publication of related public notices. Further, legislation changing the public notices required to be published in print or that adversely change the eligibility requirements for publishing public notices in states where we publish or intend to publish court and commercial newspapers would adversely affect our public notice revenues and could adversely affect our ability to differentiate our business information products, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues, profitability and growth opportunities. Government regulations related to the Internet could increase our cost of doing business, affect our ability to grow or may otherwise negatively affect our business. Governmental agencies and federal and state legislatures have adopted, and may continue to adopt, new laws and regulatory practices in response to the increasing use of the Internet and other online services. These new laws may be related to issues such as online privacy, copyrights, trademarks and service mark, sales taxes, fair business practices, domain name ownership and the requirement that our operating units register to do business as foreign entities or otherwise be licensed to do business in jurisdictions where they have no physical location or other presence. In addition, these new laws, regulations or interpretations relating to doing business through the Internet could increase our costs materially and adversely affect the revenues and results of operations in our Business Information Division. If we are unable to generate traffic to our online publications and other web sites and electronic services, our ability to continue to grow our Business Information Division may be negatively affected. We have devoted, and expect to devote, a significant amount of resources to distributing the information we provide through the Internet, web sites, electronic mail and other online services and the growth of our Business Information Division will increasingly depend upon our ability to effectively use these methods to provide information to our customers. For these methods to be successful, we will need to attract and retain frequent visitors to our web sites or users of our other electronic services, develop and expand the content, products and other tools that we offer on our web sites and through other electronic services, attract advertisers to our web sites and other electronic services and continue to develop and upgrade our technologies. If we are not successful in our efforts, our Business Information revenues and results of operations and our ability to grow this division will be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Our business and reputation could suffer if third-party providers of printing, delivery and outsourced technology services that we rely upon, as well as newspapers where we place foreclosure public notices, fail to perform satisfactorily. We outsource a significant amount of our printing to third-party printing companies. As a result, we are unable to ensure directly that the final printed product is of a quality acceptable to our subscribers. We also outsource a significant amount of our technology and software systems support to third-party information technology vendors. Further, we rely on public notice newspapers in the markets where we process mortgage default files, including DLNP, to timely and accurately publish our foreclosure public notices. To the extent that any of these third party providers do not perform their services satisfactorily, do not have the resources to meet our needs or decide not to or are unable to provide these services to us on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to provide timely and dependable business information products, as well as our professional services, could be adversely affected. In addition, we could face increased costs or delays if we must identify and retain other third-party providers of these services. Most of our print publications are delivered to our subscribers by the U.S. Postal Service. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in the delivery of our print publications by the U.S. Postal Service. To the extent we try to avoid these delays by using third-party carriers other than the U.S. Postal Service to deliver our print products, we will incur increased operating costs. In addition, the U.S. Postal Service has proposed to significantly curtailing its delivery services on Saturdays, which could have an adverse effect on certain of our business information operations that publish Saturday editions of their papers. In addition, timely delivery of our publications is extremely important to many of our advertisers, public notice publishers and subscribers. Any delays in delivery of our print publications to our subscribers could negatively affect our reputation, cause us to lose advertisers, public notice publishers and subscribers and limit our ability to attract new advertisers, public notice publishers and subscribers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 