Item 1A. Risk Factors. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report includes statements of our expectations, intentions, plans and beliefs that constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act 10 Table of Contents of 1934 and are intended to come within the safe harbor protection provided by those sections. These statements, which involve risks and uncertainties, relate to matters such as sales growth, comparable store net sales, impact of cannibalization, price changes, earnings performance, stock-based compensation expense, margins, return on invested capital, strategic direction, the demand for our products and store openings. We have used words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “thinks,” “estimates,” “seeks,” “predicts,” “could,” “projects,” “potential” and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, in this report to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made based on expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties, risks and factors relating to our operations and business environments, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and other factors include those listed in this Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” and elsewhere in this report. When considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the cautionary statements in this report and the documents incorporated by reference. New risks and uncertainties arise from time to time, and we cannot predict those events or how they may affect us. There may also be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report that could cause results to differ materially from our expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we assume no obligation to update them after the date of this report as a result of new information, future events or subsequent developments, except as required by the federal securities laws. Risks Related to Economic Factors and Our Industry Deterioration in economic conditions may adversely impact demand for our products, reduce access to credit and cause our customers and others with which we do business to suffer financial hardship, all of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business, financial condition and results of operations have and may continue to be affected by various economic factors. Deterioration in the current economic environment could lead to reduced consumer and business spending, including by our customers. It may also cause customers to shift their spending to products we either do not sell or do not sell as profitably. Further, reduced access to credit may adversely affect the ability of consumers to purchase our products. This potential reduction in access to credit may include our ability to offer customers credit card financing through third-party credit providers on terms similar to those offered previously, or at all. In addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers and other service providers. If such conditions deteriorate, our industry, business and results of operations may be severely impacted. The hardwood flooring industry depends on the economy, home remodeling activity, the homebuilding industry and other important factors. The hardwood flooring industry is highly dependent on the remodeling of existing homes and new home construction. In turn, remodeling and new home construction depend on a number of factors which are beyond our control, including interest rates, tax policy, employment levels, consumer confidence, credit availability, real estate prices, demographic trends, weather conditions, natural disasters and general economic conditions. For example, discretionary consumer spending could be limited, spending on remodeling of existing homes could be reduced and purchases of new homes could decline if: • the national economy or any regional or local economy where we operate weakens; • interest rates rise; • credit becomes less available; • regions where we operate experience unfavorable demographic trends; • fuel costs or utility expenses increase; or • home price depreciation continues. Any one or a combination of these factors could result in decreased demand for hardwood flooring, in remodeled and new homes, which would harm our business and operating results. 11 Table of Contents Increased competition could cause price declines, decrease demand for our products and decrease our market share. We operate in the wood flooring industry, which is highly fragmented and competitive. We face significant competition from national and regional home improvement chains, national and regional specialty flooring chains, Internet-based companies and privately-owned single-site enterprises. We compete on the basis of price, customer service, store location and range, quality and availability of hardwood flooring we offer our customers. Our competitive position is also influenced by the availability, quality and cost of merchandise, labor costs, finishing, distribution and sales efficiencies and our productivity compared to that of our competitors. As we expand into new and unfamiliar markets, we may experience different competitive conditions than in the past. Some of our competitors are larger organizations, have existed longer, are more diversified in the products they offer and have a more established market presence with substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we have. In addition, our competitors may forecast market developments more accurately than we do, develop products that are superior to ours or produce similar products at a lower cost, or adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements than we do. Intense competitive pressures from one or more of our competitors could cause price declines, decrease demand for our products and decrease our market share. Hardwood flooring may become less popular as compared to other types of floor coverings in the future. For example, our products are made using various hardwood species, including rare exotic hardwood species, and concern over the environmental impact of tree harvesting could shift consumer preference towards synthetic or inorganic flooring. In addition, hardwood flooring competes against carpet, vinyl sheet, vinyl tile, ceramic tile, natural stone and other types of floor coverings. If consumer preferences shift toward types of floor coverings other than hardwood flooring, we may experience decreased demand for our products. All of these competitive factors may harm us and reduce our net sales and operating results. Risks Related to Our Suppliers and Product Sourcing Our ability to obtain products from abroad and the operations of many of our international suppliers are subject to risks that are beyond our control and that could harm our operations. We rely on a select group of international suppliers to provide us with flooring products that meet our specifications. In 2011, approximately 42% of our product was sourced from Asia, approximately 7% was sourced from South America and approximately 1% was sourced from other locations outside of North America. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with obtaining products from abroad, including: • political unrest, terrorism and economic instability resulting in the disruption of trade from foreign countries where our products originate; • currency exchange fluctuations; • the imposition of new laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental matters and climate change issues; labor conditions; quality and safety standards; trade restrictions; and restrictions on funds transfers; • the imposition of new or different duties (including antidumping and countervailing duties), taxes and/or other charges on exports or imports; • disruptions or delays in production or shipments; and • changes in local economic conditions in countries where our suppliers are located. These and other factors beyond our control could disrupt the ability of our suppliers to ship certain products to us cost-effectively or at all, which could harm our operations. Our ability to offer hardwood flooring, particularly products made of more exotic species, depends on the continued availability of sufficient suitable hardwood. Our business strategy depends on offering a wide assortment of hardwood flooring to our customers. We sell flooring made from species ranging from domestic maple, oak and pine to imported cherry, koa, mahogany and teak. Some of these 12 Table of Contents species are scarce, and we cannot be assured of their continued availability. Our ability to obtain an adequate volume and quality of hard-to-find species depends on our suppliers’ ability to furnish those species, which, in turn, could be affected by many things including events such as forest fires, insect infestation, tree diseases, prolonged drought and other adverse weather and climate conditions. Government regulations relating to forest management practices also affect our suppliers’ ability to harvest or export timber, and changes to regulations and forest management policies, or the implementation of new laws or regulations, could impede their ability to do so. If our suppliers cannot deliver sufficient hardwood and we cannot find replacement suppliers, our net sales and operating results may be negatively impacted. Our dependence on certain suppliers makes us vulnerable to the extent we rely on them. We rely on a concentrated number of suppliers for the majority of our supply needs. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers, and we typically obtain our hardwood supplies on an order-by-order basis, writing orders for future deliveries from 90 to 180 days before delivery. Our suppliers may be unable to supply us in the future due to various factors, which could include political instability in the supplier’s country, a supplier’s financial instability, inability or refusal to comply with applicable laws, trade restrictions or tariffs, duties, insufficient transport capacity and other factors beyond our control. If we can no longer obtain merchandise from our major suppliers, or they refuse to continue to supply us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and we cannot find replacement suppliers, we could experience deterioration in our net sales and operating results. If we fail to identify and develop relationships with a sufficient number of qualified mills, our ability to obtain hardwood products that meet our high quality standards could be harmed. We purchase flooring directly from mills located around the world. We believe that these direct supplier relationships are relatively unique in our industry. In order to retain the competitive advantage that we believe results from these relationships, we need to continue to identify, develop and maintain relationships with qualified mills that can satisfy our high standards for quality and our requirements for hardwood in a timely and efficient manner. The need to develop new relationships will be particularly important as we seek to expand our operations in the future. Any inability to do so could reduce our competitiveness, slow our plans for further expansion and cause our net sales and operating results to deteriorate. If our suppliers do not use ethical business practices or comply with applicable laws and regulations, our reputation could be harmed due to negative publicity and we could be subject to legal risk. While our suppliers agree to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental and labor practices, we do not control our suppliers. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that they comply with such laws and regulations or operate in a legal, ethical and responsible manner. Violation of environmental, labor or other laws by our suppliers or their failure to operate in a legal, ethical and responsible manner, could reduce demand for our products if, as a result of such violation or failure, we were to attract negative publicity. Further, such conduct could expose us to legal risks as a result of our purchase of product from non-compliant suppliers. Increased hardwood costs could harm our results of operations. The cost of the various species of hardwood that are used in our products is important to our profitability. Hardwood lumber costs fluctuate as a result of a number of factors including changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, product availability, environmental restrictions, government regulation and trade policies, duties, weather conditions, processing and freight costs, and delivery delays. We generally do not have long-term supply contracts or guaranteed purchase amounts. As a result, we may not be able to anticipate or react to changing hardwood costs by adjusting our purchasing practices, and we may not always be able to increase the selling prices of our products in response to increases in supply costs. If we cannot address changing hardwood costs appropriately, it could cause our operating results to deteriorate. Risks Related to Our Operations Increasing our net sales and profitability depends substantially on our ability to open new stores and is subject to many unpredictable factors. As of December 31, 2011, we had 263 stores throughout the United States and Canada, 172 of which we opened after January 1, 2007. We plan to open a significant number of new stores during each of the next several years. This growth 13 Table of Contents strategy and the investment associated with the development of each new store may cause our operating results to fluctuate and be unpredictable or decrease our profits. Our future results will depend on various factors, including the following: • the successful selection of new markets and store locations; • our ability to negotiate leases on acceptable terms; • management of store opening costs; • the quality of our operations; • consumer recognition of the quality of our products; • our ability to meet customer demand; • the continued popularity of hardwood flooring; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the following may impact the net sales and performance of our new stores compared to prior years: • as we open more stores, our rate of expansion relative to the size of our store base will decline; • we may not be able to identify suitable store locations in markets into which we seek to expand and may not be able to open as many stores as planned; • consumers in new markets may be less familiar with our brands, and we may need to increase brand awareness in those markets through additional investments in advertising; • stores opened in new markets may have higher construction, occupancy or operating costs, or may have lower average store net sales, than stores opened in the past; • we may incur higher maintenance costs associated with our strategy of seeking out low-cost store locations than in the past; • newly opened stores may not succeed or may reach profitability more slowly than we expect, and the ramp-up to profitability may become longer in the future as we enter more mid-sized and smaller markets and add stores to larger markets where we already have a presence; and • future markets and stores may not be successful and, even if we are successful, our average store net sales and our comparable store net sales may not increase at historical rates. Finally, our progress in opening new stores from quarter to quarter may occur at an uneven rate, which may result in quarterly net sales and profit growth falling short of market expectations in some periods. Our net sales and profit growth could be adversely affected if comparable store net sales are less than we expect. While future net sales growth will depend substantially on our plans for new store openings, the level of comparable store net sales (which represent the change in period-over-period net sales for stores beginning their thirteenth full month of operation) will also affect our sales growth and business results. Among other things, increases in our baseline store volumes and the number of new stores opened in existing markets, which tend to open at a higher base level of net sales, will impact our comparable store net sales. As a result, it is possible that we will not achieve our targeted comparable store net sales growth or that the change in comparable store net sales could be negative. If this were to happen, net sales and profit growth would be adversely affected. Increased delivery costs, particularly those relating to the cost of fuel, could harm our results of operations. The efficient transportation of our products through our supply chain is a critical component of our operations. If the cost of fuel or other costs, such as import tariffs or duties, rise, it could result in increases in our cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses due to additional delivery charges and in the fees transportation companies charge us to transport our products to our stores and customers. We may be unable to increase the price of our products to offset increased delivery charges, which could cause our operating results to deteriorate. 14 Table of Contents Damage, destruction or disruption of our Toano or Hampton facilities could significantly impact our operations and impede our ability to finish and distribute our products. Our Toano facility serves as our corporate headquarters and, among other things, houses our primary computer systems, which control our management information and inventory management systems. In addition, we currently finish approximately 79% of all Bellawood products as well as small quantities of certain other products there. In 2011, Bellawood flooring accounted for approximately 16% of our net sales. Further, the Toano facility, along with our facilities in Hampton, serves as our distribution centers. If the Toano facility, the Hampton facilities or our inventory held in those locations were damaged or destroyed by fire, wood infestation or other causes, our entire finishing and/or distribution processes would be disrupted, which could cause significant lost production and delays in delivery. This could impede our ability to stock our stores and deliver products to our customers, and cause our net sales and operating results to deteriorate. Federal, provincial, state or local laws and regulations, or our failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could increase our expenses, restrict our ability to conduct our business and expose us to legal risks. We are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific laws and regulations imposed by federal, provincial, state and local authorities in the countries in which we operate including those related to customs, foreign operations (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act), truth-in-advertising, consumer protection, privacy, zoning and occupancy matters as well as the operation of retail stores and warehouse, production and distribution facilities. In addition, various federal, provincial and state laws govern our relationship with and other matters pertaining to our employees, including wage and hour laws, requirements to provide meal and rest periods or other benefits, family leave mandates, requirements regarding working conditions and accommodations to certain employees, citizenship or work authorization and related requirements, insurance and workers’ compensation rules and anti-discrimination laws. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to legal risk, our operations could be impacted negatively and our reputation could be damaged. Likewise, if such laws and regulations should change, our costs of compliance may increase, thereby impacting our results and hurting our profitability. Certain portions of our operations are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, generation, treatment, emission, release, discharge and disposal of certain hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater and the health and safety of employees. If we are unable to extend or renew a material approval, license or permit required by such laws, or if there is a delay in renewing any material approval, license or permit, that may cause our net sales and operating results to deteriorate or otherwise harm our business. With regard to our products, we may spend significant time and resources to ensure compliance with applicable advertising, importation, exportation, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. If we should violate these laws and regulations, we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and hurt our business and results of operations. Further, if such laws and regulations should change, we may experience increased costs or incur decreased efficiency in order to adhere to the new standards. The operation of stores in Canada may present increased risks due to our limited familiarity with that market. In 2011, we opened seven store locations in Canada. As a result of our limited experience in the Canadian market, these stores may be less successful than we expect. Additionally, greater investments in advertising and promotional activity may be required to build brand awareness in that market. Furthermore, we have limited experience with the legal and regulatory environments and market practices outside of the United States and cannot guarantee that we will be able to operate in the Canadian market in a manner and with the results similar to our U.S. stores. We may also incur increased costs in complying with applicable Canadian laws and regulations as they pertain to both our products and our operations. The establishment of our Representative Office in China may present increased legal and operational risks. In September 2011, we acquired certain assets of Sequoia relating to Sequoia’s quality control and assurance, product development and logistics operations in China. In connection with the transaction, we established a representative office in Shanghai, China and assumed direct control of sourcing previously managed by Sequoia in China. Prior to the close of the transaction, Sequoia provided services on a significant portion of our purchases from Asia. We have limited experience with the legal and regulatory practices and requirements in China. As a result, we may incur costs in complying with applicable Chinese laws and regulations that exceed our expectations. Further, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to legal risk. 15 Table of Contents Failure to manage our growth effectively could harm our business and operating results. Our plans call for a significant number of new stores, and increased orders from our website, call center and catalogs. Our existing management information systems, including our store management systems and financial and management controls, may be unable to support our expansion. Managing our growth effectively will require us to continue to enhance these systems, procedures and controls and to hire, train and retain regional managers, store managers and store staff. We may not respond quickly enough to the changing demands that our expansion will impose on our management, staff and existing infrastructure. Any failure to manage our growth effectively could harm our business and operating results. Our insurance coverage and self-insurance reserves may not cover future claims. We maintain various insurance policies for employee health, workers’ compensation, general liability and property damage. We are self-insured on certain health insurance plans and are responsible for losses up to a certain limit for these respective plans. We continue to be responsible for losses up to a certain limit for general liability and property damage insurance. For policies under which we are responsible for losses, we record a liability that represents our estimated cost of claims incurred and unpaid as of the balance sheet date. Our estimated liability is not discounted and is based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical trends, actuarial assumptions and economic conditions, and is closely monitored and adjusted when warranted by changing circumstances. Fluctuating healthcare costs and our significant growth rate could affect the accuracy of estimates based on historical experience. Should a greater amount of claims occur compared to what was estimated or medical costs increase beyond what was expected, our accrued liabilities might not be sufficient and we may be required to record additional expense. Unanticipated changes may produce materially different amounts of expense than that reported under these programs, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We have entered into a number of lease agreements with companies controlled by our founder and this concentration of leases may pose certain business risks. As of December 31, 2011, we lease our Toano facility, which includes a store location, and 24 of our other store locations from entities owned, in whole or in part, by Tom Sullivan, our founder and current chairman of our board of directors. Although our percentage of total stores leased from such entities has decreased over the last few years, this concentration of leases subjects us to risk in the event action or inaction by Tom or such entities impacts our leasehold interests in the locations. Risks Related to Our Information Technology The implementation of the subsequent phases of our integrated information technology solution may impact our operational efficiency and productivity. On August 22, 2010, we implemented the most significant phase of our integrated business solution from SAP. The implementation had a pervasive impact on our information system and across all of our operations, including store operations, merchandising, technology and finance. Since that implementation of the most significant phase, there have been subsequent phases and we anticipate additional phases. Such subsequent and additional phases are significantly smaller in scope, but difficulties relating to their implementation may negatively impact our business and operating results. If our management information systems experience disruptions, it could disrupt our business and reduce our net sales. We depend on our management information systems to integrate the activities of our stores, website and call center, to process orders, to respond to customer inquiries, to manage inventory, to purchase merchandise and to sell and ship goods on a timely basis. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer “hackers” or other causes. We may incur significant expenses in order to repair any such operational problems. Any significant disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information, including data related to customer orders, to be lost or delayed, which could result in delays in the delivery of products to our stores and customers or lost sales. Moreover, our entire corporate network, including our telephone lines, is on an Internet-based network. Accordingly, if our network is disrupted, we may experience delayed communications within our operations and between our customers and ourselves, and may not be able to communicate at all via our network, including via telephones connected to our network. 16 Table of Contents Any disruption of our website or our call center could disrupt our business and lead to reduced net sales and reputational damage. Our website and our call center are integral parts of our integrated multi-channel strategy. Customers use our website and our call center as information sources on the range of products available to them and to order our products, samples or catalogs. Our website, in particular, is vulnerable to certain risks and uncertainties associated with the Internet, including changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime and other technical failures, security breaches and consumer privacy concerns. If we cannot successfully maintain our website and call center in good working order, it could reduce our net sales and damage our reputation. Further, the costs associated with such maintenance may exceed our estimations. We may incur costs resulting from security risks we face in connection with our electronic processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information. We accept electronic payment cards for payment in our stores and through our call center. In addition, our online operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. As a result, we may become subject to claims for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of credit or debit card information, and we may also be subject to lawsuits or other proceedings relating to these types of incidents. Further, a compromise of our security systems that results in our customers’ personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations and financial condition, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. A security breach could also require that we expend significant additional resources related to the security of information systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. Additionally, privacy and information security laws and regulations change, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative processes. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost future business, and we could be subjected to additional legal risk as a result of non-compliance. Risks Related to Our Personnel Our success depends substantially upon the continued retention of certain key personnel. We believe that our success has depended and continues to depend to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team. The loss, for any reason, of the services of any of these key individuals and any negative market or industry perception arising from such loss, could damage our business and harm our reputation. Our success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified managers and staff. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managers and staff. Buying hardwood flooring is an infrequent event, and typical consumers have very little knowledge of the range, characteristics and suitability of the products available to them before starting the purchasing process. Therefore, consumers in the hardwood flooring market expect to have sales associates serving them who are knowledgeable about the entire assortment of products offered by the retailer and the process of choosing and installing hardwood flooring. As a result, competition for qualified store managers and sales associates among flooring retailers is intense. We may not succeed in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to conduct our current operations and support our potential future growth. In addition, as we expand into new markets, we may find it more difficult to hire, motivate and retain qualified employees. Risks Relating to Our Marketing and Advertising Our success depends on the continued effectiveness of our advertising strategy. We believe that our growth was achieved in part through our successful investment in local and national advertising. We have typically located our stores in areas that have lower rents than traditional retail locations, but that are generally set some distance from population centers and downtown urban areas. To support this real estate strategy, we have used extensive advertising to encourage customers to drive to our stores. We may need to increase our advertising expense to support our business strategy in the future. If our advertisements fail to draw customers in the future, or if the cost of advertising or other marketing materials increases significantly, we could experience declines in our net sales and operating results. 17 Table of Contents Failure to maintain relevant product endorsement agreements and product placement arrangements could harm our reputation and cause our net sales to deteriorate. We have established relationships with well-known and respected home improvement celebrities to evaluate, promote and help establish with consumers the high-quality nature of our products. If these individuals were to stop promoting our products, if we were unable to renew our endorsement contracts with them or if we could not find other endorsers of a similar caliber, our net sales and reputation could be harmed. Similarly, any actions that persons endorsing our products may take, whether or not associated with our products, which harm their or our reputations could also harm our brand image with consumers and our reputation, and cause our net sales to deteriorate. We also have a number of product placement arrangements with home improvement-related television shows. We rely on these arrangements to increase awareness of our brands, and to enable potential customers to see both what our flooring will look like after installation and the relative ease with which it can be installed. Any failure to continue these arrangements could cause our brands to become less well-known and cause our net sales to deteriorate. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and harm our business. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. Our ability to implement our business plan successfully depends in part on our ability to further build brand recognition using our trademarks, service marks and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logo and the names and logos of our brands. We may incur significant costs and expenses relating to our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are inadequate, or if any third party infringes on or misappropriates our intellectual property, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could adversely affect our business and might prevent our brands from achieving or maintaining market acceptance. We may also encounter claims from prior users of similar intellectual property in locales where we operate or intend to operate. This could harm our image, brand or competitive position and cause us to incur significant penalties and costs. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Tom Sullivan has the ability to exercise influence over us and his interests in our business may be different than yours. At December 31, 2011, Tom controlled approximately 7% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, he is able to exercise influence over our business policies and affairs and all matters requiring a stockholders’ vote, including the composition of our board of directors, the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership could also delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without his support. Tom’s interests may conflict with yours, and he may seek to cause us to take courses of action that, in his judgment, could enhance his investment in us, but which might involve risks to holders of our common stock or be harmful to our business or other investors. In addition, the timing and volume of any transactions involving our common stock by Tom may, among other things, cause fluctuations in the price of our common stock. Our anti-takeover defense provisions may cause our common stock to trade at market prices lower than it might absent such provisions. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain several provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include a staggered board, the availability of “blank check” preferred stock, provisions restricting stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders or requiring one to be called or from taking action by written consent and provisions that set forth advance notice procedures for stockholders’ nominations of directors and proposals of topics for consideration at meetings of stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation also provides that Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which relates to business combinations with interested stockholders, applies to us. These provisions may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. In addition, these provisions may cause our common stock to trade at a market price lower than it might absent such provisions. Our common stock price may be volatile and you may lose all or part of your investment. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly. Those fluctuations could be based on various factors in addition to those otherwise described in this report, including: • our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; 18 Table of Contents • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who follow Lumber Liquidators or other companies in our industry; • variations in general economic conditions; • actions of our current stockholders, including sales of common stock by our directors and executive officers; • the arrival or departure of key personnel; and • other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors. In addition, the stock market may experience significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies but may cause declines in the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company or its performance. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of research analysts and investors due to various factors. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of various factors, including: • changes in comparable store net sales and customer visits, including as a result of declining consumer confidence or the introduction of new products; • the timing of new store openings and related sales and expenses; • profitability of our stores, especially in new markets; • the impact of inclement weather, natural disasters and other calamities; • variations in general economic conditions, including the impact of interest rates on our interest income; • the timing and scope of sales promotions and product introductions; • changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending; • fluctuations in supply prices; and • tax expenses, impairment charges and other non-operating costs. Due to these factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. Average store net sales or comparable store net sales in any particular future period may decrease. In the future, operating results may fall below the expectations of research analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to fall. Risk Related to Accounting Standards Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including but not limited to, revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, lease accounting, sales returns reserves, inventories, self-insurance, income taxes, unclaimed property laws and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 19 Table of Contents 