D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry Difficult global economic conditions and credit environment may adversely affect the demand for our products. The demand for solar power products is influenced by macroeconomic factors, such as the supply and price of other energy products, as well as government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry. The global financial markets have experienced a downturn since 2008, and most of the world’s major economies have experienced a period of slow economic growth. The global economic downturn has resulted in weakened market demand for products that require significant initial capital expenditures, including solar power products. For example, the global economic downturn in several key solar power markets has resulted in slower investments in new installation projects that make use of solar power products. Existing projects may also be delayed as a result of the credit and other disruptions. The unfavorable credit environment, which affects the ability of sponsors to obtain financing for their projects, has also contributed to the slowdown of the large solar project market segments. Furthermore, a decrease in the price of other energy products, such as oil, coal and natural gas, may reduce the urgency of the market to invest in alternative energy. These macroeconomic factors have resulted in reduced demand for our solar power products, and have adversely affected our operating results. In 2008 and 2009, partly due to the impact of global financial market disruption and economic slowdown, some of our customers cancelled or delayed orders for our products. 8 The overall global economic conditions and credit environment have improved significantly over the second half of 2009. However, at the time of this annual report, European Union and International Monetary Fund are preparing effective bail-out plans to resolve the economic crisis in Greece, which has the potential to spread to other parts of Europe. If such negative economic and market downturn happens, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Volatile market and industry trends, in particular, the decline in demand for solar products may cause the average selling price of our products to decline, and reduce our revenues and profitability. We are affected by solar power market and industry trends. From the fourth quarter of 2008 to the first quarter of 2009, the global solar power industry experienced a precipitous decline in demand. During the same period, the global supply of solar products exceeded the global demand due to the excess production capacity as a result of the global economic downturn. Such oversupply of solar products contributed to the decline in the average selling price of solar cells. The average selling prices of our solar cells decreased from $3.32 per watt in 2008 to $1.36 per watt in 2009. As the effect of the global economic crisis subsided through 2009, the combination of increased availability of financing for downstream buyers and decreased average selling prices of solar power products contributed to an overall increase in demand during the second half of 2009 for solar power products compared to the first quarter of 2009. However, if demand for solar power products declines again and the supply of solar power products continues to grow, the average selling price of our products will be materially and adversely affected, which may reduce our revenues and profitability. The availability and price of silicon raw materials may affect our gross margins and profitability. Polysilicon is an essential raw material in our production of solar power products. The procurement costs of silicon wafers and other silicon-based raw materials have accounted for a substantial majority of our cost of revenues since we began our commercial production of solar cells in August 2005. The global supply of polysilicon is controlled by a limited number of producers and in the past several years there was an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon due to the growing demand for solar power products and the continuing expansion of the semiconductor industry. According to Solarbuzz LLC, or Solarbuzz, an independent solar energy research and consulting firm, the average long-term supply contract price of polysilicon increased from approximately $60-$65 per kilogram in 2007 to $60-$75 per kilogram in 2008. In addition, according to Solarbuzz, spot prices for solar grade polysilicon were in the range of $230-$375 per kilogram for most of the first half of 2008 and rose to a peak of $450-$475 per kilogram by mid-2008. Increases in the price of polysilicon have in the past resulted in increases in the price of wafers, and these increases in the price of silicon raw materials have in the past increased our production costs and thus affected our profitability. However, in late 2008 and 2009, newly available polysilicon capacity has resulted in an increased supply of polysilicon, which created a downward pressure on the price of polysilicon. According to Solarbuzz, the average initial price range of long-term polysilicon supply contracts decreased to $50-$60 in the fourth quarter of 2009, and the spot price for solar grade polysilicon decreased rapidly to $150-$200 per kilogram by the beginning of 2009, and further declined to $55-$60 per kilogram by the end of 2009. However, we cannot assure you that the price of polysilicon will continue to decline or remain at its current levels, especially if the global solar power market regains its growth momentum. Moreover, if the industry-wide shortage of polysilicon happens again, we may face a shortage of silicon raw materials and experience late or non-delivery from suppliers and purchase silicon raw materials of lower grade quality that may result in lower conversion efficiency and reduced average selling price and revenues. Our strategy of expanding into downstream solar power business may not be as successful as we envisioned. In March 2010, we entered into two share transfer agreements with China Electric Equipment Group Co., Ltd., or CEEG, an entity controlled by Mr. Tingxiu Lu, our chairman, and Sundex Holdings Limited, a company not affiliated with us, pursuant to which we will acquire from CEEG and Sundex Holdings Limited the 100% equity interests in CEEG (Shanghai) Solar Science & Technology Co., Ltd. and the 100% equity interests in CEEG (Nanjing) New Energy Co., Ltd., both of which are our affiliates and are controlled by Mr. Tingxiu Lu, at a total consideration of approximately RMB320.0 million ($46.9 million). The two transactions are expected to close before June 30, 2010, subject to customary closing conditions including obtaining necessary government approvals. CEEG (Shanghai) Solar Science & Technology and CEEG (Nanjing) New Energy integrate the research and development, production, sales and servicing of solar modules, with total annual production capacities of 150 MW and 70 MW, respectively, as of March 2010. These acquisitions will facilitate the implementation of our strategy to expand into downstream solar power business, including solar module and solutions businesses. 9 These proposed acquisitions and our implementation of the strategy of expanding into downstream solar power business will result in substantial changes to our business, including, among others, the change of our customer base, from primarily module manufacturers and system integrators purchasing solar cells to primarily system integrators and solar power project developers. We have limited experience engaging in solar module and solutions businesses and may not be successful in establishing a strong reputation in the market. Moreover, this sector of the solar power industry is rapidly evolving and is becoming increasingly competitive. We cannot predict whether, or how quickly, this market will grow. Our successful expansion into solar module and solutions businesses depends on a number of factors, including: level of demand for solar modules and solutions services; our ability to provide solar modules and solutions services with quality satisfactory to our customers; our ability to hire and retain enough staff with relevant experience in this business; our ability to compete effectively with other companies engaging in similar businesses; our ability to maintain and develop relationships with solar module and solutions services customers, including existing customers of these companies to be acquired; our ability to offer module products and solutions services in the countries presenting culture, language, regulatory or other barriers; our ability to adapt and develop our products and services according to market conditions and needs; and our ability to integrate the companies to be acquired. If we fail to successfully expand such business, our growth strategy will be impaired. We may fail to recoup our investment, and our business, competitiveness and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have a limited operating history and we have incurred losses in certain prior periods and may incur losses in the future. We incurred net losses of $4.9 million, $22.9 million and $9.8 million in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will not incur net losses in the future or that there will not be any earnings or revenue declines in any future periods. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability depends on, among others, the growth rate of the solar power market, the continued global market acceptance of solar power products in general and our existing and future products in particular, our ability to secure quality raw materials, primarily silicon wafers, the pricing trend of solar power products, the competitiveness of our products as well as our ability to provide new products to meet the demands of our customers, our ability to achieve our manufacturing expansion plans and our ability to control our costs and expenses. We may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Furthermore, our limited operating history may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. Accordingly, even though we achieved growth or profitability during certain prior periods, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we have as a company which has a limited operating history and is seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a rapidly evolving market. Our dependence on a limited number of third-party suppliers for key raw materials and customized manufacturing equipment could prevent us from timely delivering our products to our customers in the required quantities, which could result in order cancellations and decreased revenue. We purchase silicon raw materials, primarily silicon wafers, from a limited number of third-party suppliers. Our top ten suppliers supplied approximately 57.4% of the silicon raw material supplies we procured in 2009, mostly under contracts with a term of less than one year. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with our major suppliers, we may be unable to manufacture our products or our products may only be available at a higher cost or after a long delay, and we could be prevented from delivering our products to our customers in the required quantities and at prices that are profitable. Problems of this kind could cause order cancellations and loss of market share. Historically, we encountered problems with respect to the quality of silicon raw material supplied by some of our suppliers, which resulted in lower conversion efficiencies of our solar cells. Some of our suppliers have failed to perform their delivery obligations in the past. In addition, historically, many of our contracts did not provide for a remedy for non-delivery beyond a refund of any advance payment that we may have made, and our legal recourse in cases of non-delivery may be limited. 10 The failure of any major supplier to supply raw materials that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could impair our ability to manufacture our products and could increase our costs, particularly if we are unable to obtain these materials and components from alternative sources on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms. The pricing terms under our raw material supply framework agreements generally are to be determined based on future negotiations. If we cannot reach agreement on pricing terms with those suppliers in the future, those agreements will not be enforceable and we would then need to seek alternative supplies. In such an event, we may not be able to secure sufficient alternative supplies. In addition, certain of our manufacturing equipment has been designed and made specifically for us. As a result, such equipment is not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace. Any significant damage to, or breakdown of, our customized manufacturing equipment could cause material interruptions to our operations and consequentially could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our costs and expenses may increase as a result of entering into fixed price, firm purchase commitment arrangements with our suppliers. In response to the industry-wide shortage of silicon raw materials experienced prior to the third quarter of 2008, we purchased silicon raw materials using short-term and long-term contracts from a limited number of international and domestic suppliers. Currently we use primarily short-term contracts to secure our silicon raw materials supply. Some agreements provide for firm purchase commitments and fixed pricing or pricing adjustable within a relatively small range. From the fourth quarter of 2008 to mid-2009, the price of silicon raw materials decreased precipitously because of the excess supply of silicon raw materials resulting from slower global solar power market growth. In light of such excess supply, we have sought to re-negotiate with our long-term supply partner in regard to certain long-term supply contracts signed in 2008. If we fail to re-negotiate or terminate these contracts, we may be subject to contractual damages. See “—We have been a party in several legal proceedings, which, if determined adversely, could negatively affect our business and results of operations.” If the prices under our amended supply contracts continue to be higher than the market prices, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage versus our competitors, and our profitability could decline. In addition, if demand for our solar power products decreases and such agreements require us to purchase more silicon raw materials than are required to meet our demand, we may incur costs associated with carrying excess inventory, which may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. To the extent we are not able to pass these increased costs and expenses on to our customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We have significant outstanding bank borrowings, and we may not be able to arrange adequate financing when they mature or may encounter other difficulties in maintaining liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, we had $123.9 million in cash and cash equivalents, and we had $102.5 million in outstanding borrowings, all of which would become due within one year. In the first quarter of 2010, we borrowed additional loans and repaid some of our loans, and all of our current loans will become due within one year of the date of this report. Recent turmoil in the credit markets and the potential impact on the liquidity of financial institutions may adversely affect our ability to fund our business through borrowings, under either existing or newly created instruments in the public or private markets on terms that we believe to be reasonable, if at all. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain extensions of these facilities as they mature. If we are unable to obtain extensions of these facilities, or if we are unable to obtain sufficient alternative funding on reasonable terms to make repayments, we will have to repay these borrowings with cash generated by our operating activities. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations to repay these borrowings. In addition, repaying these borrowings with cash generated by our operating activities will divert our financial resources from the requirements of our ongoing operations and future growth. Historically, given the state of the industry, we generally needed to make prepayments at a certain percentage of the order value to our suppliers of silicon raw materials in advance of shipment. Due to the relative oversupply of polysilicon, prepayment as a percentage of the entire contract has been reducing. In 2009, most of our suppliers granted us credit terms under their contracts with us. However, our purchases of silicon raw materials may continue to require us to make certain working capital commitments. We may also need additional capital for the expansion and modification of our manufacturing lines in the future. As a result of these requirements, we may require additional debt or equity financing. Furthermore, we have granted credit terms for our sales to some of our large customers. Some of our customers may fail to meet their payment obligations, which would materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. 11 In addition, we may also need a significant amount of cash to meet future capital requirements in connection with our overall expansion plan, including the expansion of our solar power product manufacturing facilities, as well as research and development activities in order to remain competitive. Future acquisitions, expansions, market changes or other developments may also cause us to obtain additional funds. If we fail to effectively manage our cash flows from operations, borrowings and equity contributions to support our cash flow requirements, we may encounter difficulty in liquidity, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future prospects. Our advance payments to most of our silicon raw material suppliers expose us to the credit risk of these suppliers, and if these suppliers default in delivery or refunding the payment, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. Under the supply contracts with most of our silicon raw material suppliers entered into during an industry-wide shortage of silicon raw materials in the past few years, we made prepayments to our suppliers prior to the scheduled delivery dates for silicon raw materials. The prepayment as a percentage of the entire contract has been reducing due to the dramatic change of the availability of polysilicon since the fourth quarter of 2008, and our advances to suppliers decreased significantly to $7.3 million and further decreased to $0.2 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively. However, we still depend on a limited number of suppliers and we may continue to be required to make such advance payments without receiving collateral in the future. As a result, our claims for such advance payments would rank only as unsecured claims, exposing us to the credit risks of the suppliers in the event of their insolvency or bankruptcy. We may not be able to recover such advance payments and would suffer losses should the suppliers fail to fulfill their delivery obligations under the contracts. Our dependence on a limited number of customers may cause significant fluctuations or declines in our revenues. We currently sell a substantial portion of our solar cells to a limited number of customers. Our top five customers contributed over 56.4% of our net revenues in 2009, including CEEG (Shanghai) Solar Science and Technology Co., Ltd. and CEEG (Nanjing) New Energy Co., Ltd., both of which are our affiliates and are controlled by Mr. Tingxiu Lu, our chairman, which contributed approximately 19.3% and 9.3%, respectively, of our net revenues in 2009. Sales to our customers are typically made through non-exclusive arrangements. After the completion of our proposed acquisitions as described above, our customer base may change from primarily module manufacturers and system integrators to primarily system integrators and solar power project developers. We anticipate that our dependence on a limited number of customers will continue in the foreseeable future. Consequently, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenues: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; • loss of one or more of our significant customers and our failure to identify additional or replacement customers; and • failure of any of our significant customers to make timely payment for our products. The practice of requiring customers to make advance payments when they place orders with us has declined, and we have experienced and will continue to experience increased needs to finance our working capital requirements and are exposed to increased credit risk of our customers. We historically required our customers to make an advance payment of a certain percentage of their orders, a business practice that helped us to manage our accounts receivable, prepay our suppliers and reduce the amount of funds that we needed to finance our working capital requirements. In line with market trend, this practice of requiring our customers to make advance payments is on the decline, and has resulted in our increased need to obtain additional short-term borrowings to fund our current cash requirements. Furthermore, a larger portion of our revenues have been and may continue to be, derived from credits sales to our customers. Receivables from our top three customers represented approximately 43.6% of our total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2009. CEEG (Shanghai) Solar Science and Technology Co., Ltd. and CEEG (Nanjing) New Energy Co., Ltd., both of which are our affiliates and are controlled by Mr. Tingxiu Lu, our chairman, accounted for 18.8% and 12.3% of our total accounts receivable, respectively, as of December 31, 2009. Failure to timely collect our receivables may adversely affect our cash flows. In 2009, we recorded $7.3 million allowance for doubtful accounts, primarily attributable to the doubtful accounts in connection with our sales to a major client of us in 2008. In 2010, we believe a majority of our revenues are expected to be derived from credit sales, generally with payment schedules according to negotiated contracts. As a result of the disruptions in the financial markets and other macro-economic challenges which had affected the world economy, our customers may experience cash flow concerns. As a result, they may delay their payment to us. Any inability of current or potential customer to pay us may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. 12 If we are unable to maintain a high utilization rate of our manufacturing capacity, our operating margins may decline substantially. Our ability to achieve profitability depends in part on our ability to maintain a high utilization rate of our manufacturing capacity. With the slowed growth of the solar power market, it is more difficult for us to obtain enough orders for the solar power products that we are capable of producing. If we are unable to obtain sufficient orders for our products, procure sufficient raw materials, or if we experience any material equipment failure, then we will not be able to maintain a high utilization rate of our manufacturing capacity. As we incur fixed costs associated with our facilities and equipment whether they are being utilized, operating at less than full utilization results in expenses without corresponding revenue, which may reduce our operating margins. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications could cause demand for our products and our revenues to decline. Almost all of our solar power products sold are eventually used in the on-grid market, where the solar power systems are connected to the utility grid and generate electricity to feed into the grid. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for on-grid applications depends in large part on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. The reduction or elimination of subsidies and economic incentives may adversely affect the growth of this market or result in increased price competition, either of which could cause our revenues to decline. Today, when upfront system costs are factored into cost per kilowatt, the cost of solar power substantially exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid in almost all locations. As a result, national and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably in China, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain, South Korea and the United States, have provided subsidies and economic incentives in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax credits and other incentives to distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products in order to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependence on other forms of energy. Policy shifts could reduce or eliminate these government economic incentives altogether. For example, the rapid rise of German and Spanish markets were largely due to the enactment of relevant government policies setting feed-in tariff rates at attractive levels. In September 2008, the Spanish government reduced its national feed-in tariff and set a 500 MW installation cap for 2009, which had a significant negative effect on the Spanish solar power market and partly contributed to decreases in global selling prices of solar power products in later 2008 and early 2009. At the beginning of 2009, the German government reduced solar feed-in tariffs by between 9% and 11%. In May 2010, German Parliament Lower House (Bundestag) approved a proposal of a further mid-year reduction in solar feed-in tariffs of 16% for rooftop systems and 15% for most open-field installations. If this proposal is later approved by German Parliament Upper House (Bundesrat) and becomes law, a significant decrease in the demand for solar power products in Germany will likely follow. In addition, we exported a large amount of our products to Europe, especially to Germany, and we expect to sell more products to the European market after our expansion into downstream solar power business. There have been market rumors that the European Union may seek to initiate anti-dumping investigations regarding imports of solar power products from China. If an anti-dumping investigation is initiated against Chinese exporters or if the European Union imposes anti-dumping measures, including tariffs on solar power product imports from China, such action could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Reductions in, or eliminations of, subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications could result in decreased demand for our products and cause our revenues to decline. 13 Because the markets in which we compete are highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do, we may not be able to compete successfully and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. The market for solar power products is highly competitive and continually evolving. We expect to face increased competition, which may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. Our competitors include solar power divisions of large conglomerates such as Kyocera, Sanyo and Sharp Corporation, as well as specialized power product manufacturers such as Canadian Solar Inc., JA Solar Holdings Co., Ltd., Motech Industries Inc., Q-Cells AG, Sunpower Corp., Suntech Power Holdings Co., Ltd., Solarfun Power Holdings Co., Ltd. and Trina Solar Ltd. Some of our competitors, for example Yingli Green Energy Holding Co., Ltd., have also become vertically integrated, from wafer and module manufacturing to solar system integration. During periods of raw material supply shortage, their internally produced raw materials may enable them to realize a higher margin in comparison with other solar power product manufacturers. We may also face new competition from semiconductor manufacturers, several of which have already announced their intention to start production of solar power products. Decrease in polysilicon price and increase in solar power product manufacturing could result in substantial downward pressure on the price of solar power products and intensify the competition in 2010. In addition, the entire solar power industry faces competition from conventional and non-solar renewable energy technologies. Due to the relatively high manufacturing costs compared to most other energy sources, solar energy is generally not competitive without government subsidies and economic incentives. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. Our competitors’ greater size in some cases provides them with a competitive advantage with respect to manufacturing costs due to their economies of scale and their ability to purchase raw materials at lower prices. For example, those of our competitors that also manufacture semiconductors may source both semiconductor grade silicon wafers and solar grade silicon wafers from the same supplier. As a result, such competitors may have stronger bargaining power with the supplier and have an advantage over us in pricing as well as obtaining silicon wafer supplies at times of shortage. Many of our competitors also have more established distribution networks and larger customer bases. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our customers and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products or respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions than we can. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among existing competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. If we fail to compete successfully, our business would suffer and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. Prices for our silicon raw materials and products, and therefore our results of operations, may vary according to seasonal demand, unpredictable events such as adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, and other factors. The price of polysilicon, an essential raw material for our production of solar power products, is volatile. Historically our margins and results of operations have been materially and adversely affected by the availability and price of polysilicon and other silicon raw materials. The market prices for our products are also subject to fluctuation due to a number of other factors and could decline unexpectedly. For example, the price for solar power products in Germany, which is used throughout our industry as a pricing benchmark, could be adversely affected by changes in the subsidies available for solar power, and price declines in Germany or in any other major market for solar power products could adversely affect our average selling prices. Purchases of solar power products also tend to decrease during the winter months because of adverse weather conditions in certain regions, which complicate the installation of solar power systems. Historically, our results of operations have been affected by such seasonality of industry-wide demand for solar power products. Our quarterly operating results also may fluctuate from period to period due to other factors, including adverse weather conditions and natural disasters. For example, unusually heavy snowstorms in central China in the first quarter of 2008 disrupted our power supply and the transportation of our raw materials and finished products, forcing us to suspend our operations for three weeks. Any of these various factors could negatively affect our production, margins and results of operations and, as a result of these factors, you may not be able to rely on period to period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. If solar power technology is not suitable for widespread adoption, or if sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our revenues may not continue to increase or may even decline, and we may be unable to achieve or sustain our profitability. The solar power market is at a relatively early stage of development, and the extent of acceptance of solar power products is uncertain. Historical and current market data on the solar power industry are not as readily available as those for other more established industries where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. In addition, demand for solar power products may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of solar power technology and demand for solar power products, including: 14 • cost-effectiveness, performance and reliability of solar power products compared to conventional and other renewable energy sources and products; • success of other alternative energy generation technologies, such as wind power, hydroelectric power and biomass; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and other renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels or decreases in capital expenditures by end users of solar power products; • availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar power industry; • capital expenditures by end users of solar power products, which tend to decrease when the economy slows down; and • deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader energy industry. If solar power technology is not viable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or develops to a lesser extent than we anticipate, our revenues may suffer and we may be unable to sustain our profitability. Advances in solar power technology could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales and profit to decline. The solar power market is characterized by evolving technology standards that require improved features, such as higher conversion efficiencies and higher power output. This requires us to develop new solar power products and enhancements for existing solar power products to keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. For example, currently we are focused on crystalline silicon technology and the expansion of production capacity based on crystalline silicon, which today is the primary technology used by most solar cell and module manufacturers. Some overseas producers have focused on developing alternative forms of solar power technologies, such as thin-film technologies. Failure to further refine our technology and to develop and introduce new solar power products could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our revenues to decline. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to maintain our market position, keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and effectively compete in the future. If our future innovations fail to enable us to maintain or improve our competitive position, we may lose market share. If we are unable to successfully design, develop and bring to market competitive new solar power products or enhance our existing solar power products, we may not be able to compete successfully. Competing solar power technologies may result in lower manufacturing costs or higher product performance than those expected from our solar power products. In addition, if we, or our customers, are unable to manage product transitions, our business and results of operations would be negatively affected. We may not be successful in the commercial production of N-type solar cells or other new products, which could limit our growth prospects. We are currently developing process technology for manufacturing N-type solar cells. The conversion efficiency rate of N-type solar cells may generally be higher than that of mainstream P-type solar cells. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to commercially manufacture N-type solar cells on a large scale in a cost effective way. We may face significant challenges in manufacturing N-type solar cells. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause decreases in yield and cell conversion efficiencies. We may face difficulty in securing wafer supply for the manufacture of N-type solar cells. If we are unable to commence manufacturing our N-type solar cells on a timely basis, or if we face technological difficulties in cost-efficiently producing our N-type solar cells with the expected performance on a stable level, or if we are unable to secure sufficient raw material supplies or generate sufficient customer demand for our N-type solar cells, our business and prospects may be adversely impacted. 15 In addition, as of the date of this prospectus, we have five selective emitter cell manufacturing lines. During the second half of 2009, we made a concerted effort to improve the performance of our standard HP solar cells. We are also developing Matrix cells, which demonstrated significant improvement during 2009. However, these products are still new and their stability and performance is still unproven. We may face difficulty in the development and commercial production of selective emitter cells, Matrix cells or other new products. We may also have difficulty in converting existing manufacturing lines or installing new manufacturing lines for the production of new products. These difficulties could arise from a number of reasons, including difficulties or delays in obtaining or installing equipment, adapting our production to new processes or training our personnel. We may also have difficulties in achieving the higher conversion efficiencies that we expect to achieve with these new products. Any of these difficulties may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future success substantially depends on our ability to increase both our manufacturing capacity and total output, which exposes us to a number of risks and uncertainties. We currently have ten solar cell manufacturing lines, with an aggregate annual production capacity of 320 MW, assuming the use of 156-millimeter monocrystalline silicon wafers. Our future success depends on our ability to increase both our manufacturing capacity and total output. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to expand our business, decrease our costs per watt, maintain our competitive position and improve our profitability. Our ability to establish additional manufacturing capacity and increase output is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: • the need to raise significant additional funds, which we may be unable to obtain on commercially viable terms or at all, to purchase raw materials and to build additional manufacturing facilities; • delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as increases in the price of silicon raw materials and problems with equipment vendors; • delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities; • diversion of significant management attention; • the ability to secure sufficient silicon raw materials, primarily silicon wafers, to support our expanded manufacturing capacity; and • the recovery of global economy and demand for solar products in overseas markets as influenced by the global economic downturn and its effects. If we are unable to establish or successfully operate additional manufacturing capacity, or if we encounter any of the risks described above, we may be unable to expand our business as planned. Moreover, we cannot assure you that if we do expand our manufacturing capacity as planned, we will be able to generate sufficient customer demand for our solar power products to support our increased production levels. We may experience difficulty in achieving acceptable yields and product performance as a result of manufacturing problems, which could negatively impact our future revenue. The technology for the manufacture of solar power products is highly complex and is continually being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. The quality of the raw materials used, microscopic impurities such as dust and other contaminants, difficulties in the manufacturing process, or malfunctions of the equipment or facilities used can lower yields, cause quality control problems, interrupt production or result in losses of products in process. Because our existing manufacturing capabilities are, and our future manufacturing capabilities will likely remain, concentrated in our manufacturing facilities in Nanjing, China, any problem in our facilities may limit our ability to manufacture products. We may encounter problems in our manufacturing facilities as a result of, among other things, production failures, construction delays, human errors, equipment malfunction or process contamination, which could seriously harm our operations. We may also experience floods, droughts, power losses and similar events beyond our control that would affect our facilities. For example, the unusually heavy snowstorms in the first quarter of 2008 disrupted our power supply and forced us to suspend our manufacturing operations for three weeks. Any disruption in our manufacturing process that forces us to shut down and restart our production causes a drop-off in production quality during the first two or three weeks after we resume production, which in turn reduces our yield as more of our output falls below our quality control standards during that period. 16 Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our chairman, executive officers and key employees, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of Mr. Tingxiu Lu, our chairman, our executive officers and key employees, especially Dr. Jianhua Zhao, our vice chairman and chief technology officer, Mr. Stephen Zhifang Cai, our director and chief executive officer, Mr. Siegfried Yi Chou Hsu, our chief financial officer, and Dr. Aihua Wang, our vice president. In the past, certain of our executive officers and key employees resigned from their positions. For example, Mr. Kenneth Luk resigned from the position as our chief financial officer in March 2009. Dr. Fengming Zhang resigned from the positions as our director and vice president in charge of manufacturing technology in April 2009. Mr. Ruennsheng Allen Wang resigned from the position as our director and chief executive officer in March 2010. We subsequently appointed Mr. Shiliang Guo as our director in May 2009, Mr. Siegfried Yi Chou Hsu as our chief financial officer in October 2009, and Mr. Stephen Zhifang Cai as our chief executive officer and director in March and April 2010, respectively. Although we have successfully found replacements for these vacated positions in the past, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to find eligible candidates in the future if one or more of our executive officers or key employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions. Although we believe that these changes of our management team did not materially affect our business operations in the past, if we lose the services of our executive officers or key employees due to their resignation, non-compliance with applicable law or any other reason in the future, especially if we cannot timely find replacements, our business may be severely disrupted, our financial conditions and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected and we may incur additional expenses to recruit, train and retain personnel. If any of our executive officers or key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, suppliers, know-how and key professionals and staff members. Each of our executive officers and key employees has entered into an employment agreement with us which contains non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between our executive officers or our key employees and us, these agreements may not be enforceable in China, where these executive officers or our key employees reside, in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us.” If we fail to manage our growth and expansion effectively, our business may be adversely affected. We have experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion that has placed, and continues to place, significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To accommodate our growth, we anticipate that we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including improvements to our accounting and other internal management systems, all of which require substantial management efforts. We also will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, manage our customer relationships and manage our relationships with raw material suppliers. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and skill and the incurrence of additional expenditures. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, that failure may have a material adverse effect on our business. Future acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire technologies, businesses or assets that are complementary to our business. For example, in March 2010, we entered into two share transfer agreements to acquire the 100% equity interests in CEEG (Shanghai) Solar Science & Technology Co., Ltd. and the 100% equity interests in CEEG (Nanjing) New Energy Co., Ltd., both of which are our affiliates and are controlled by Mr. Tingxiu Lu, our chairman. These and any future acquisitions may expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the assimilation of new personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing business and the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions. Any difficulties encountered in the acquisition and integration process may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. 17 We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our solar power products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. In 2009, we derived 35.0% of our net revenues from sales of our products to customers outside of China. We intend to continue to expand our sales in Europe as well as in other overseas markets such as the United States, Australia and other Asian countries and regions. The marketing, distribution and sale of our solar power products in the international markets expose us to a number of risks, including: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • increased costs associated with maintaining marketing efforts in various countries; • difficulty and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer our products; • difficulty in engaging and retaining sales personnel who are knowledgeable about, and can function effectively in, overseas markets; • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries; and • demand for solar products in overseas markets as influenced by world wide credit crisis and its effects. If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, particularly technical personnel with expertise in the solar power industry. Since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain the qualified technical staff or other highly- skilled employees that we will need to achieve our strategic objectives. As we are still a relatively young company and our business has grown rapidly, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the growing demands of our business. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to solar power technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time-consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products, or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly. We rely primarily on trade secrets, patent laws and other contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. Nevertheless, these afford only limited protection, and the actions we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. For example, as of March 31, 2010, we have seven patents and 11 pending patent applications in China. We cannot assure you that in a legal proceeding the claims of our patents would be found valid or that the claims would be interpreted as having sufficient scope to protect the technology we consider important to our business, nor can we assure you that our patent applications will eventually issue with claims of sufficient scope to protect additional technology significant to our business. As a result, we may be unable to exclude third parties from using the technologies that we have developed and compete with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. 18 Furthermore, we have granted NewSouth Innovations Pty Limited, a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use the technology for manufacturing N-type solar cells covered in one of our patents in China for internal research purposes, and a right to commercially utilize or sublicense such technology after March 1, 2009, provided that they may not sublicense such technology to certain of our Chinese competitors until after March 1, 2010. As a result, we may not be able to block our competitors from using the technology covered by this patent after March 1, 2010, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as divert other resources away from our business. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes to existing regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies adopted by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical requirements regarding the interconnection between customer-owned electricity generation and the grid. In a number of countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our products. For example, without a regulatory mandated exception for solar power systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to customers of using our solar power products and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that our products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local regulations relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual jurisdictions and to design products that comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar power products may result in significant additional expenses to us or cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar power products. Heightened environmental concerns and increased awareness of climate change risks associated with fossil fuel-based power generation have generated political momentum in many governments, which subsequently implemented strategies aimed at the reduction of emissions of carbon dioxide and certain other gases commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases.” Renewable energy sources such as solar power help address these environmental concerns, and governments around the world have implemented a variety of policy initiatives to accelerate the development and adoption of solar power. While passage of climate change legislation or other regulatory initiatives that regulate or restrict emissions of greenhouse gases may encourage use of solar power and accordingly increase demand for our products and services, this could cause us to incur additional direct costs in complying with any new environmental regulations during our manufacturing and research and development processes, as well as increased indirect costs resulting from our customers, suppliers or both incurring additional compliance costs which are subsequently passed on to us. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy caused the Renminbi to appreciate approximately 21.5% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Since reaching a high against the U.S. dollar in July 2008, however, the Renminbi has traded within a narrow band against the U.S. dollar, remaining within approximately 1% of its August 2008 high. As a consequence, the Renminbi has fluctuated sharply since July 2008 against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. For example, the Renminbi appreciated approximately 27% against the Euro between July 2008 and November 2008. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how it may change again. 19 A major portion of our sales are denominated in Renminbi and Euros, with the remainder in U.S. dollars, while a substantial portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi and U.S. dollars, with the remainder in Euros. Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly among the U.S. dollars, Renminbi and Euros, may affect our net profit margins and could result in fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and operating gains and losses. We incurred a net foreign exchange loss of approximately $0.5 million in 2009. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may incur net foreign currency losses in the future. In addition, as we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by our operating subsidiaries in China, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ordinary shares and ADSs. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Furthermore, due to the fact that we are paid in Euros for a proportion of our sales, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Euro and the RMB may also have a material effect on our results of operations. Noncompliance with present or future construction and environmental regulations may result in potentially significant monetary damages and fines. In the past, we had begun operating facilities without having obtained all the necessary approvals on the completion acceptance of our certain facilities from relevant PRC construction and environmental protection authorities. As of the date of this annual report, we have not received any administrative penalties in respect of such non-compliance. As of the date of this annual report, we have obtained all the approvals from the relevant PRC environmental protection authorities and construction authorities with respect to the completion acceptance for these facilities. As our manufacturing processes generate noise, waste water, gases and other industrial wastes, we are required to comply with all national and local regulations regarding protection of the environment. In addition, the National People’s Congress of China and the Chinese government have promulgated certain resolutions and regulations regarding climate change, which generally require enterprises to take actions to effectively manage the impact of climate change, develop renewable energy solutions and control emissions. We believe we are in material compliance with present environmental protection requirements and regulations, and have all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business, except as disclosed herein. However, if more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with such new regulations could be substantial. We believe that we have all of the permits necessary to conduct our business as it is presently conducted. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, however, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. We use, generate and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development and manufacturing activities. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from product liability claims. As the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, product liability insurance available in China offer limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries. We do not have any product liability insurance. As with other solar power product manufacturers, we are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims if the use of our solar power products results in injury. Since our products generate electricity, it is possible that users could be injured or killed by our products as a result of product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. We only began commercial shipment of our solar power products in August 2005, and, because of our limited operating history, we cannot predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on our business. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. In addition, we have purchased business interruption insurance in 2009, but we can not assure you that it is adequate. 20 Problems with product quality or product performance may result in a decrease in customers and revenues, incur unexpected expenses or cause us to incur warranty expenses, and may damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. Our products may contain defects that are not detected until after they are sold or are installed because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. We have received in the past, and may receive from time to time in the future, complaints from certain customers that portions of our solar power products have quality deficiencies. If we deliver solar power products that do not satisfy our customers’ or end users’ quality requirements, or if there is a perception that our products are of poor quality, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our solar power products could be harmed. We may also incur substantial expenses to compensate the customers. Historically, some of our sales contracts with overseas customers provided for a 10-year warranty for the performance of our solar cells, and in some cases, our solar cells were sold with up to a 20-year warranty. In 2009, we sold 8.3 MW of solar modules, in most cases with a five-year warranty for defects in material and workmanship and a minimum power output warranty of up to 25 years following the date of purchase. We expect to sell more solar modules with similar warranty terms after our expansion into downstream solar power business. As a result, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have sold our products and recognized revenues. We have sold solar cells only since August 2005. Due to the short usage history of our products, we cannot assure you that our assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our products are reasonable. Our warranty provisions may be inadequate, and we may have to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products in the future. Any increase in the defect rate of our products would cause us to increase the amount of our warranty reserves and have a correspondingly negative impact on our operating results. Furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation, reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our common shares may, therefore, be adversely impacted. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. Beginning with our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, we are required to prepare a management report on our internal controls over financial reporting containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. There have been historical deficiencies with our internal controls. For example, in connection with the audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified several significant deficiencies in connection with access control on important transactions in our enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system, our management of inventory and fixed assets, bad debt provision and ERP software application development. In connection with the audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified a significant deficiency in our internal financial reporting procedure relating to the internal communications between our legal and finance department. We have undertaken remedial steps to improve our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls. In connection with the preparation of this annual report on Form 20-F, we carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Based on this evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and an effective system of disclosure controls in the future, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and as a result, investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely impacted. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our chairman has substantial influence over our company, and his interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Mr. Tingxiu Lu, our chairman, currently beneficially owns 14.7% of our outstanding share capital as of March 31, 2010. Part of the shares he beneficially owns became the subject of a dispute, which is further described in Item 6E. Further, most of our bank borrowings are guaranteed by CEEG, an entity controlled by Mr. Lu. CEEG guaranteed the bank borrowings of Sunergy Nanjing for up to RMB1 billion until May 2011, subject to adjustment in the event of a material change in CEEG’s credit or operational status. Mr. Lu has substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders and holders of our ADSs, including those who purchased our ADSs in our initial public offering. 21 We have been a party in several legal proceedings, which, if determined adversely, could negatively affect our business and results of operations. We and several of our directors and officers were named defendants in three purported class actions currently pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York—Brown v. China Sunergy Co., Ltd. et al., Case No. 07-CV-07895 (DAB), Sheshtawy v. China Sunergy Co., Ltd. et al., Case No. 07-CV-08656 (DAB), and Giombetti v. China Sunergy Co., Ltd. et al., Case No. 07-CV-09689 (DAB). On September 29, 2008, the District Court appointed a lead plaintiff and consolidated the three cases. The lead plaintiff alleges that we made false and misleading statements in our registration statement and prospectus in connection with our initial public offering in May 2007 regarding, among other things, the procurement of polysilicon, and seek unspecified damages. In July 2009, the defendants agreed to settle the class action. The proposed settlement agreement, filed with the court on October 16, 2009, is still pending and must be approved by the court before becoming final. We have recorded an estimated amount of $1.1 million for the final settlement in our consolidated financial statements as of and during the year ended December 31, 2009. We have filed a petition in a Norwegian district court seeking injunction with regard to the withdrawal of a $50 million bank guarantee, which is a security for our payment obligation under a long term supply contract entered into between REC SiTech AS, a Norwegian wafer supplier, and us in June 2008. Without obtaining our written consent as the contract requires, REC SiTech AS merged into REC Wafer Norway AS upon its dissolution on January 1, 2009. Subsequently, the bank guarantee was not renewed. REC Wafer Norway AS claimed that the non-renewal of the bank guarantee was a breach of contract which according to the supply contract is the basis for the drawdown of the bank guarantee, and it sought to draw on the bank guarantee. The Salten District Court initially granted us the injunction prohibiting REC Wafer Norway AS from drawing on the bank guarantee but later rejected our request for an extension of the injunction upon a hearing held in January 2010. We subsequently appealed to the Court of Appeal in Norway, which denied our injunction request on April 16, 2010, and we have now a further appeal to the supreme court of Norway. The Court of Appeal further ordered on April 23, 2010 to the effect that its ruling on April 16, 2010 is to be suspended until the appeal is determined by the Supreme Court, which may not provide its ruling before mid-June 2010. Unfavorable resolutions of these legal proceedings or any future legal proceedings could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See Item 8, “Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. All of our business operations are conducted in China and a majority of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the amount of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. 22 While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 20 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage or control economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. As the PRC economy is increasingly linked to the global economy, it is affected in various respects by downturns and recessions of major economies around the world, such as the recent financial services and economic crises of these economies. The various economic and policy measures enacted by the PRC government to forestall economic downturns or shore up the PRC economy could materially affect our clients’ businesses and our business. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency- denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditures by solar energy users, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We conduct substantially all of our manufacturing operations through our wholly owned subsidiary, China Sunergy (Nanjing) Co., Ltd., or Sunergy Nanjing, previously named CEEG (Nanjing) PV-Tech Co., Ltd., a limited liability company established in China. Sunergy Nanjing is generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations have not been fully developed and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties. We cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, the preemption of local regulations by national laws, or the overturn of local government’s decisions by the superior government. These uncertainties may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We rely on dividends paid by our subsidiary for our cash needs. We conduct substantially all of our operations through Sunergy Nanjing. We rely on dividends paid by Sunergy Nanjing for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Sunergy Nanjing is also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Sunergy Nanjing is also required to allocate a portion of its after-tax profits, as determined by its board of directors, to its staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners. In addition, if Sunergy Nanjing incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, the dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiary may also be adversely affected by the Law of the People’s Republic of China on Enterprise Income Tax, or the New EIT Law, and its implementation rules, or the New EIT Law Implementation Rules, which became effective on January 1, 2008. See “—Our global income and the dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiary may be subject to PRC tax under the New EIT Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.” 23 Our global income and the dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiary may be subject to PRC tax under the New EIT Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the New EIT Law and the New EIT Law Implementation Rules, which became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a PRC resident enterprise and will be subject to a 25% PRC enterprise income tax on its global income. The New EIT Law Implementation Rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation released a circular, or the Resident Enterprise Circular, which sets out the standards and procedures for recognizing the location of the “de facto management bodies” of an enterprise registered outside of the PRC and funded by Chinese enterprises as controlling investors, or the Chinese Funded Enterprise. Under the Resident Enterprise Circular, if (i) a Chinese Funded Enterprise’s major management department and personnel who are responsible for carrying out daily operations are primarily located in the PRC; (ii) the department or the personnel who have the right to decide or approve the Chinese Funded Enterprise’s financial and human resource matters are located in the PRC; (iii) the major assets, accounting books and records, company seals, board and shareholder meeting resolutions of the Chinese Funded Enterprise are located or maintained in the PRC; and (iv) 50% or more of voting board members or senior executives habitually reside in China, such Chinese Funded Enterprise shall be considered as a PRC resident enterprise. The Resident Enterprise Circular explicitly provides that the above standards shall apply to the enterprises which are registered outside the PRC and funded by Chinese enterprises as controlling investors, therefore such standards may be cited for reference only and may not be directly adopted when considering whether our Company’s “de facto management body” is in the PRC or not. Moreover, the assessment of “resident enterprise” shall be determined by the PRC tax authorities based on the facts and circumstances of each individual case. Accordingly, it is still unclear whether we will be considered as a PRC resident enterprise under the New EIT Law as of the date of this annual report. If we are considered a PRC resident enterprise, we will be subject to a 25% PRC income tax on our global income and such 25% PRC income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Under the applicable PRC tax laws in effect before January 1, 2008, dividend payments to foreign investors made by foreign- invested enterprises such as our PRC subsidiary, Sunergy Nanjing, were exempt from PRC withholding tax. Pursuant to the New EIT Law and the New EIT Law Implementation Rules, however, dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by a foreign-invested enterprise to its foreign investors will be subject to a 10% withholding tax if the foreign investors are considered as non-PRC resident enterprises without any establishment or place of business within China or if the dividends payable have no connection with the establishment or place of business of the foreign investors within China, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a reduced withholding arrangement. The Cayman Islands, where we are incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with China. China Sunergy (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd., or Sunergy Hong Kong, the direct holder of the 100% equity interest in Sunergy Nanjing, is incorporated in Hong Kong. According to the Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Arrangement on Avoiding Double Taxation or Evasion of Taxation on Income agreed between China and Hong Kong in August 2006, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its direct holding company in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of no more than 5% (if the foreign investor owns directly at least 25% of the shares of the foreign-invested enterprise). Under the New EIT Law Implementation Rules, if we and Sunergy Hong Kong were regarded as PRC resident enterprises, the dividends payable to us from Sunergy Nanjing would be exempt from the PRC income tax. If we were regarded as a non-PRC resident enterprise and Sunergy Hong Kong were regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, then Sunergy Hong Kong would be required to withhold a 10% withholding tax on any dividends payable to us, while if Sunergy Hong Kong is regarded as a non-PRC resident enterprise, then Sunergy Nanjing would be required to withhold a 5% withholding tax on any dividends payable to Sunergy Hong Kong. In either case, the amount of funds available to us to meet our cash requirements, including the payment of dividends to our shareholders and debt service on any debt we incur, could be materially reduced. In addition, if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, under the New EIT Law, any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders or holders of ADSs will be subject to a withholding tax. We also cannot assure you that any gain realized by non-PRC shareholders or holders of our ADSs from the transfer of our shares or ADSs will not be subject to a withholding tax. Unless there are further rules announced by the Chinese tax authorities, we may be required under the New EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC shareholders or holders of ADSs, or any gain realized by our non-PRC shareholders or holders of ADSs from transfer of the shares or ADSs, and your investment in our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 24 According to a circular released by the State Administration of Taxation regarding the understanding and recognition of the identification of “beneficial owner” under tax treaties on October 27, 2009, or the Beneficial Owner Recognition Circular, a corporate resident of a contracting state will not be entitled to the lower withholding tax rate under a tax treaty if it is considered a "conduit company" which is set up merely for the purpose of avoiding or reducing tax or transferring or accumulating profits, as opposed to a beneficial owner who owns and controls an item of income, or the right or property from which that item of income is derived, and is normally engaged in substantive business activities such as manufacturing, sales and management. Therefore, if Sunergy Hong Kong were not considered to be the beneficial owner of Sunergy Nanjing as the case may be, under the terms of the Beneficial Owner Recognition Circular, we may not be able to enjoy the applicable tax treaty benefits between the PRC and Hong Kong, and any dividends paid by Sunergy Nanjing to Sunergy Hong Kong may incur a higher withholding tax rate of 10%. No similar tax treaty exists between the PRC and the Cayman Islands. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues or financing effectively. Certain portions of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. If our revenues denominated in Renminbi increase or expenses denominated in Renminbi decrease in the future, we may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares or ADSs. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, Sunergy Nanjing is able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Most foreign exchange transactions by Sunergy Nanjing under capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of, or registration with, PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if Sunergy Nanjing borrows foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE, and if we finance Sunergy Nanjing by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved or registered by certain government authorities including the SAFE, the Ministry of Commerce or their local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of Sunergy Nanjing to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, and could affect our business and financial condition. Our business benefits from certain PRC preferential tax treatments. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The PRC government has provided various incentives to foreign-invested enterprises. Because Sunergy Nanjing is a foreign-invested enterprise engaged in manufacturing businesses and located in Nanjing, which is within a coastal economic zone, it was entitled to a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 24% prior to January 1, 2008. As a foreign-invested enterprise engaged in manufacturing businesses, Sunergy Nanjing is also entitled to a two-year income tax exemption and 50% reduction for the succeeding three years from the first profitable year. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China, or the Congress, enacted the New EIT Law, under which foreign invested enterprises and domestically-owned enterprises would be subject to enterprise income tax at a uniform rate of 25%. On December 6, 2007, the State Council promulgated the New EIT Law Implementation Rules. Both the New EIT Law and its Implementation Rules became effective on January 1, 2008. The New EIT Law also provides transitional measures for enterprises established prior to the promulgation of the New EIT Law and eligible for lower tax rate or preferential treatment in accordance with the then-prevailing tax laws and administrative regulations. On December 26, 2007, State Council of China promulgated the Circular on Carrying Out the Transitional Preferential Policies concerning Enterprise Income Tax, or the Circular. Under the New EIT Law, the Implementation Rules and the Circular, enterprises which were established and already enjoyed preferential enterprise income tax treatments before March 16, 2007 will continue to enjoy them (i) in the case of preferential tax rates, for a period of five years from January 1, 2008, and the enterprises which previously enjoyed the tax rate of 24% shall be subject to the tax rate of 25% in 2008, or (ii) in the case of preferential tax exemption or reduction for a specified term, until the expiration of such term or 2012, whichever is earlier. However, the Circular also prescribes that if the above transitional relief of enterprise income tax overlaps with the preferential treatments provided by the New EIT Law, an enterprise may choose the more favorable treatment, and shall not enjoy both. The treatment cannot be changed once it is chosen. In addition, on April 14, 2008, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Science and Technology and the State Administration of Taxation jointly promulgated the Administration Measures for Recognition of High and New Technology Enterprises, or the Recognition Measures. Pursuant to the New EIT Law, the New EIT Law Implementation Rules and the Recognition Measures, the qualifying High and New Technology Enterprise, or HNTE, is eligible for a preferential tax rate of 15%. In October 2008, Sunergy Nanjing obtained the HNTE certificate with a three-year validity term from 2008 to 2010. Therefore, Sunergy Nanjing is entitled to a preferential income tax rate of 15% as long as it maintains its HNTE qualification under the New EIT Law and the Recognition Measures. Based on the Circular, the management chooses to enjoy the transitional relief, i.e. 12.5% from 2008 to 2010. The management believes it is more-likely-than-not to renew its HNTE status in 2011 and will be eligible for the 15% preferential rate for the following three years from 2011 to 2013. If Sunergy Nanjing fails to maintain the HNTE qualification, its applicable enterprise income tax rate will increase to up to 25%, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current effective tax rate in the future. Any discontinuation of preferential tax treatment or any increase of the enterprise income tax rate applicable to Sunergy Nanjing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 25 Our failure to obtain the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, of the listing and trading of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including CSRC, promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, which became effective on September 8, 2006. This regulation, among other things, has certain provisions that purport to require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for the purpose of acquiring PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. The application of this PRC regulation remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website a notice specifying the documents and materials that are required to be submitted for obtaining CSRC approval. We believe, based on the advice of our PRC counsel, Jun He Law Offices, that although the CSRC generally has jurisdiction over overseas listing of SPVs like us, it was not necessary for us to obtain CSRC approval for our initial public offering given the fact that we had legally completed the acquisition of all the equity interest in Sunergy Nanjing before the new regulation became effective. Uncertainty as to how this regulation will be interpreted or implemented still remains. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that the CSRC’s approval was required for our initial public offering, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency. If this happens, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our initial public offering into the PRC, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends by Sunergy Nanjing, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. Also, if later the CSRC requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. In October 2005, SAFE issued a regulation entitled “Circular on several issues concerning foreign exchange regulation of corporate finance and roundtrip investments by PRC residents through special purpose companies incorporated overseas,” or Circular No. 75. Circular No. 75 states that if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their PRC entities as capital contributions to establish offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, they must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies and must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events involving capital variation, such as changes in share capital, share transfers, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions, long-term equity or debt investments or uses of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Under Circular No. 75, failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in such regulation may result in restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on the capital inflow from the offshore entity to the PRC entity. While we believe our shareholders have complied with existing SAFE registration procedures, any future failure by any of our shareholders who is a PRC resident or controlled by a PRC resident to comply with relevant requirements under Circular No. 75 could subject our company to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on Sunergy Nanjing’s ability to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in or provide loans to Sunergy Nanjing. 26 A failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration of shares and share options held by our employees who are PRC citizens may subject such employees or us to fines and legal or administrative sanctions. Pursuant to the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, promulgated on January 5, 2007 by SAFE and the Operating Procedures on Administration of Foreign Exchange for PRC Individuals’ Participation in Employee Share Ownership Plans and Employee Share Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or the Share Option Rules, issued by SAFE in March 2007, PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by an overseas-listed company according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required, through the PRC subsidiary of such overseas-listed company or other qualified PRC agents, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or other share incentive plan. In addition, the overseas listed company or its PRC subsidiary or other qualified PRC agent is required to appoint an asset manager or administrator and a custodian bank, and open special foreign currency accounts to handle transactions relating to the share option or other share incentive plan. In addition, the General Administration of Taxation has issued certain circulars concerning employee share options. Pursuant to these circulars, our employees working in China who exercise their share options will be subject to PRC individual income tax. Our PRC subsidiaries have obligations to file documents related to such employee share options with relevant tax authorities and withhold individual income taxes of those employees who exercise their share options. We and the participants of our share incentive plans who are PRC citizens are subject to these rules, and we will attempt to comply with the relevant requirements under such rules. Failure to comply with such rules may subject us and the participants of our share incentive plans who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from further granting options and restricted share under our share incentive plans, which could adversely affect our business operations. Increase in labor costs and the new Labor Contract Law and other labor-related regulations in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our profitability. On June 29, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted a new Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. Compared to the PRC Labor Law effective as of January 1, 1995, the new Labor Contract Law imposes more restrictions and increases costs for the employers to terminate employment, including specific provisions related to fixed term employment contracts, temporary employment, probation, consultation with the labor union and employee assembly, employment without a contract, dismissal of employees, compensation upon termination and overtime work, and collective bargaining. According to the new Labor Contract Law, the employer is obliged to sign an unlimited term labor contract with an employee if the employer continues to hire the employee after two consecutive fixed term labor contracts or after the employee spends 10 consecutive years working for the employer. The employer also has to pay a compensation fee to the employee if the employer terminates an unlimited term labor contract. Unless an employee refuses to extend an expired labor contract, such compensation is also required when the labor contract expires. Further, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have served more than one year for an employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on their length of service. Employees who waive such vacation time at the request of employers shall be compensated for three times their normal salaries for each waived vacation day. As a result of these new protective labor measures, our labor costs are expected to increase, which may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak. China reported a number of cases of SARS in April 2004. Since 2005, there have been reports of occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. In April 2009, an outbreak of a new strain of influenza identified as the Influenza A (H1N1) virus occurred in Mexico resulting in a number of deaths. As the virus continued to spread worldwide including China, the World Health Organization on June 11, 2009 declared the H1N1 virus outbreak a global pandemic. The spread of H1N1 or any prolonged recurrence of avian influenza, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include restrictions on our ability to travel or ship our products outside of China as well as temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. 27 Risks Related to Our Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been volatile since our ADSs began trading on NASDAQ, and may be subject to fluctuations in the future, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The closing price of our ADSs has ranged from a high of $17.88 to a low of $1.38 since our ADSs began trading on NASDAQ on May 17, 2007. We cannot assure you that the market price of ADSs will not significantly fluctuate from its current level. The market price of our ADSs may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the conversion efficiencies of our products or those of our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other solar power technology companies; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; • announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, the Euro and RMB; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ADSs. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. In particular, the performance and fluctuation of market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volumes for our ADSs. The trading performances of these China-based companies’ securities at the time of or after their offerings may affect the overall sentiment toward China-based companies’ securities listed in the United States and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs. Volatility in global capital markets could also have an effect on the market price of our ADSs. For example, financial markets have experienced extreme disruption in the past years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices. In the event of a continuing market downturn, the market price of our ADSs may further decline. Substantial future sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ordinary shares, the prevailing market price for our ADSs could be adversely affected. 28 In addition, we may issue additional ordinary shares or ADSs for future acquisitions. If we pay for our future acquisitions in whole or in part with additionally issued ordinary shares or ADSs, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Based on the market price of our ADSs, the value of our assets, and the composition of our income and assets, although we do not believe that we were a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2009, we cannot assure you that we were not a PFIC for such year. A non-U.S. corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. We must make a separate determination after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares, fluctuations in the market price of the ADSs or ordinary shares may cause us to become a PFIC. Although we do not believe that we were a PFIC for our taxable year ended December 31, 2009, because of the depressed market price of the ADSs and our retention of a significant amount of cash during such year, there is a significant risk that we could be treated as a PFIC for such year. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we were not a PFIC for such year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined in Item 10, “Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation”) holds an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. Holder. See Item 10, “Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunities to sell their shares at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors will have the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. Preferred shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors issues preferred shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected. 29 Our amended and restated articles of association provide for a staggered board, which means that our directors are divided into three classes, with around one- third of our board standing for election every year. This means that, with our staggered board, at least two annual shareholders’ meetings, instead of one, are generally required in order to effect a change in a majority of our directors. Our staggered board can discourage proxy contests for the election of our directors and purchases of substantial blocks of our shares by making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to take control of our board in a relatively short period of time. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You will have limited ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct a majority of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside the U.S. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through Sunergy Nanjing, our wholly owned subsidiary established in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and substantially all of the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the applicable securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. The voting rights of holders of our ADSs are limited in several significant ways by the terms of the deposit agreement. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise their voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is ten clear days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. 30 You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs, represented by American depositary receipts, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is necessary or advisable to do so in connection with the performance of its duty under the deposit agreement, including due to any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement. ITEM 