Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks as well as the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements, before investing in shares of our common stock. As indicated earlier in this annual report on Form 10-K under the title “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements,” certain information contained in this annual report are forward-looking statements. If any of the following events actually occur or risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow could be materially adversely affected and could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements in this annual report on Form 10-K. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Professional Services Division David A. Trott, the chairman and chief executive officer of NDeX, and certain other employees of NDeX, who are also shareholders and principal attorneys of our law firm customers, may under certain circumstances have interests that differ from or conflict with our interests. NDeX’s chairman and chief executive officer, David A. Trott, its executive vice presidents, senior executives in NDeX’s Indiana operations and certain members of senior management at Barrett-NDEx, which we acquired in September 2008, are the principal attorneys and shareholders of NDeX’s eight law firm customers. In addition, 14 Table of Contents certain members of the senior management at Barrett-NDEx own an interest in NDeX and have the right to require that we redeem their interest beginning in September 2012 (See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Noncontrolling Interest” later in this report). As a result of these relationships with NDeX and our law firm customers, Mr. Trott and these individuals may experience conflicts of interest in the execution of their duties on behalf of us. These conflicts may not be resolved in a manner favorable to us. For example, they may be precluded by their ethical obligations as attorneys or may otherwise be reluctant to take actions on behalf of us that are in our best interests, but are not or may not be in the best interests of their law firms or their clients. Further, as licensed attorneys, they may be obligated to take actions on behalf of their law firms or their respective clients that are not in our best interests. In addition, Mr. Trott has other direct and indirect relationships with The Detroit Legal News Publishing, LLC and other vendors NDeX uses that could cause similar conflicts. See “Related Party Transactions and Policies — David A. Trott” in our proxy statement and Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for a description of these relationships. If the number of case files referred to us by our mortgage default processing service law firm customers or loan servicers and mortgage lenders we serve directly in California decreases or fails to increase, our operating results and ability to execute our growth strategy could be adversely affected. NDeX has eight law firm customers and also provides mortgage default professing services directly to lenders and loan servicers on residential real estate located in California. Revenues from NDeX constituted 87.8% and 85.0% of our Professional Services Division’s revenues in 2009 and 2008, respectively, and 57.6% and 44.5% of our total revenues in 2009 and 2008, respectively. We are paid different fixed fees for each foreclosure, bankruptcy, eviction, litigation, and other mortgage default related case file referred by these eight law firms to us for processing services. Therefore, the success of NDeX and our mortgage default processing services segment is tied to the number of these case files that each of our law firm customers receives from their mortgage lending and mortgage loan servicing firm clients and the number of California foreclosure files we receive directly from our mortgage lender and loan servicer customers. In 2009, our largest law firm customer was the Barrett law firm, who represented approximately 43.6% of our mortgage default processing services revenues. Trott & Trott was our second largest law firm customer in 2009 and accounted for 28.7% of these revenues. Also, in 2009, the top ten clients for all of our law firm customers, on an aggregated basis, accounted for over 68% of the case files our law firm customers directed to us for mortgage default processing services. Our operating results and ability to execute our growth strategy could be adversely affected if (1) any of our law firm customers lose business from these clients; (2) these clients are affected by changes in the market and industry, enacted legislation or court orders in the states where they do business or by the federal government or other factors that cause them to be unable to pay for the services of our law firm customer or reduce the volume of files referred to our law firm customers and which they direct us to process; or (3) our law firm customers are unable to attract additional business from current or new clients for any reason, including any of the following: the provision of poor legal services, the loss of key attorneys (such as David A. Trott, who has developed and maintains a substantial amount of Trott & Trott’s client relationships), the desire of the law firm’s clients to allocate files among several law firms or a decrease in the number of residential mortgage foreclosures in the eight states where we do business, including due to market factors or governmental action. A failure by one or more of our law firm customers to pay us as a result of these factors could materially reduce the cash flow of NDeX and result in losses in our mortgage default processing services segment. Please refer to the risk factors below for more information about governmental or other voluntary action on the part of the clients of our law firm customers that could negatively affect NDeX. Further, to the extent that Trott & Trott’s or the Barrett law firm’s clients direct either of them to use another provider of mortgage default processing services or those clients conduct such services in-house, the number of files we process would be adversely affected. We could also lose any law firm customer if we materially breach our services agreements with such customer. 15 Table of Contents Bills introduced and laws enacted, along with court orders, to mitigate foreclosures in states where we do business (including recently enacted legislation in Michigan and Indiana), the Hope for Homeowners Act, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, the Streamlined Modification Program, the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan (including the Making Home Affordable Program), the Protecting Tenants at Foreclosure Act and voluntary foreclosure relief programs developed by lenders, loan servicers and the Hope Now Alliance, a consortium that includes loan servicers, may have an adverse effect on or restrict our mortgage default processing services and public notice operations. The increasing number of mortgage defaults, foreclosures and evictions have resulted, and may continue to, result in new or increased government regulation (either legislatively or through courts) of residential mortgage products or the foreclosure of delinquent loans. If new or more stringent regulations are enacted, our customers and/or their clients would likely be subject to these regulations. As a result, these new or more stringent regulations may adversely impact the number of mortgage default files that our law firm customers receive from their clients and can then direct us to process or that we receive for processing from our California mortgage lender and loan servicer customers. Similarly, these new or more stringent regulations could impose new requirements on the processing of foreclosures, which could adversely affect when public notices are sent to our business information products or Detroit Legal Publishing News (our minority investment) for publication. In the past two years, the federal government, along with local governments in Michigan, Indiana and other states where we do business, have enacted legislation and developed programs and reforms to mitigate the volume of mortgages in foreclosure. On December 28, 2009, the Florida Supreme Court issued an administrative order mandating mediation in connection with foreclosure proceedings of homestead residences involving homes originated under the Truth in Lending Act and the Minnesota and California legislatures are considering bills that would also require lenders to engage in mediation prior to commencing foreclosure proceedings. We have described this legislation, these court orders and these programs, along with their effect on us, in “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Recent Developments — Regulatory Environment” later in this annual report. If this legislation or any other bills being considered, or court orders or programs are successful, they will likely reduce the number of mortgages going into default and, thus, the number of mortgage default files that we process and the number of foreclosure public notices referred to us or The Detroit Legal News Publishing for publication. If any of these occur, it could have a negative impact on our earnings and growth. For example, the decrease in foreclosure files we processed on Indiana properties and decreased equity in earnings of The Detroit Legal News Publishing in 2009 compared to 2008, we believe, is due to legislation enacted in Indiana and Michigan in 2009. Further, we recognize revenue at NDeX on a proportional performance basis over the period during which the services are provided. This requires us to make significant estimates regarding the length of time it takes to process mortgage default files in each state, as well as the timing of our allocation of revenues during these periods. To the extent enacted legislation or court orders, or other factors, add steps to the foreclosure process that lengthen the time it takes us to process files or the period in which we perform certain steps of the process as occurred in connection with the enacted legislation in Michigan and Indiana, it could change the assumptions and estimates upon which our revenue recognition policies are based. If we are unable to accurately estimate the effect of this enacted legislation, court orders or other factors on our revenue recognition policies, we may not recognize revenue appropriately, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, a number of lenders and loan servicers, including clients of us and our law firm customers, are focusing their attention toward loss mitigation, loan modifications and other similar efforts which may delay or prevent foreclosures. To the extent that these lenders, loan servicers and others over whom we have no control voluntarily, or are required to, continue these efforts, the number of files we process and the number of foreclosure public notices referred to us for publication could be adversely affected, which would have a negative impact on our earnings, growth and operations. We have owned and operated DiscoverReady LLC for a very short period of time and we are highly dependent on the skills and knowledge of the individuals serving as chief executive officer and president of DiscoverReady as none of our executive officers have managed or operated a discovery management and document review services company prior to this acquisition. We acquired an 85.0% equity interest in DiscoverReady LLC on November 2, 2009. DR Holdco LLC owns the remaining 15.0% membership interest in DiscoverReady. DR Holdco is a limited liability company owned by James K. Wagner, Jr. and Steven R. Harber, DiscoverReady’s chief executive officer and president, respectively, along 16 Table of Contents with other DiscoverReady employees, DiscoverReady provides outsourced discovery management and document review services to major United States companies and their counsel. Prior to our acquisition of this business, our executive officers have not managed or operated a discovery management and document review business. Thus, we rely heavily on the management skills and experiences of Messrs. Wagner and Harber, who have co-founded and built DiscoverReady and have a deep understanding of the discovery management and document review business. If our executive officers cannot effectively manage and operate this business, the operating results and prospects for DiscoverReady, our litigation support services segment and our Professional Services Division may be adversely affected and we may not be able to execute our growth strategy with respect to DiscoverReady. We have employment agreements with Messrs. Wagner and Harber; however, these employment agreements do not ensure that either of them will not voluntarily terminate their employment with us. We also do not have key man insurance for either of Messrs. Wagner or Harber. The loss of either Messr. Wagner or Harber could require our executive officers to divert immediate attention to seeking a replacement and operating a business in which our executive officers have no prior experience. Our inability to find a suitable replacement for either of Messrs. Wagner or Harber on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow DiscoverReady. DiscoverReady’s business revenues are very concentrated among a few customers and if these customers choose to manage their discovery with their own staff or by engaging another provider and if we are unable to develop new customer relationships, our operating results and the ability to execute our growth strategy at DiscoverReady may be adversely affected. DiscoverReady generates revenue through fee-based arrangements for outsourced discovery management and document review services with major United States companies and their counsel. DiscoverReady’s top two customers (both in the financial services industry) accounted for more than 65%, in the aggregate, of its total revenues for 2009 (which includes the 10-month period when we did not own a majority interest in DiscoverReady). In particular, one of these customers accounted for approximately 40% of its 2009 revenues and accounted for approximately 33% of its 2008 revenues. During the two-month period in which we owned a majority interest in DiscoverReady in 2009, these two customers accounted for 75.7% of DiscoverReady’s revenues. These two customers accounted for 21.9% of our full year 2009 litigation support services revenues and 1.8% of our full year 2009 total revenues. As a result, the success of DiscoverReady is tied to our relationships with these key customers as well as our ability to develop new customer relationships. Our operating results and ability to execute our growth strategy for DiscoverReady could be adversely affected if (1) we lose business from either of these customers; (2) if these customers are affected by changes in the market and industry or other factors that cause them to be unable to pay for our services; or (3) if we are unable to attract additional business from current or new customers for any reason, including any of the following: poor service, the loss of key employees, such as James K. Wagner, Jr. and Steven R. Harber, the decision of our customers to perform document review services with their own staff or to engage the services of one of our competitors. If any of these were to occur, it could reduce the cash flow of DiscoverReady and adversely affect the results of operations of this business. Regulation of the legal profession may constrain the operations of the businesses in our Professional Services division, and numerous related issues could impair our ability to provide professional services to our customers and reduce our revenues and profitability. Each state has adopted laws, regulations and codes of ethics that provide for the licensure of attorneys, which grants attorneys the exclusive right to practice law and places restrictions upon the activities of licensed attorneys. The boundaries of the “practice of law,” however, are indistinct, vary from one state to another and are the product of complex interactions among state law, bar associations and constitutional law formulated by the U.S. Supreme Court. Many states define the practice of law to include the giving of advice and opinions regarding another person’s legal rights, the preparation of legal documents or the preparation of court documents for another person. In addition, all states and the American Bar Association prohibit attorneys from sharing fees for legal services with non-attorneys. Pursuant to services agreements between NDeX and its law firm customers, we provide mortgage default processing services to law firms and directly to mortgage lenders and loan servicers on California foreclosure files. Through DiscoverReady, we provide outsourced discovery management and document review services. Through 17 Table of Contents Counsel Press, we provide procedural and technical advice to law firms and attorneys to enable them to file appellate briefs, records and appendices on behalf of their clients that comply with court rules. Current laws, regulations and codes of ethics related to the practice of law pose the following principal risks: • State or local bar associations, state or local prosecutors or other persons may challenge the services provided by NDeX, Counsel Press or DiscoverReady as constituting the unauthorized practice of law. Any such challenge could have a disruptive effect upon the operations of our business, including the diversion of significant time and attention of our senior management. We may also incur significant expenses in connection with such a challenge, including substantial fees for attorneys and other professional advisors. If a challenge to any of these businesses were successful, we may need to materially modify our professional services operations in a manner that could adversely affect that division’s revenues and profitability and we could be subject to a range of penalties that could damage our reputation in the legal markets we serve. In addition, any similar challenge to the operations of NDeX’s law firm customers could adversely impact their mortgage default business, which would in turn adversely affect our mortgage default processing segment and Professional Service Division’s revenues and profitability; • The services agreements to which NDeX is a party could be deemed to be unenforceable if a court were to determine that such agreements constituted an impermissible fee sharing arrangement between the law firm and NDeX; and • Applicable laws, regulations and codes of ethics, including their interpretation and enforcement, could change in a manner that restricts NDeX’s, Counsel Press’ or DiscoverReady’s operations. Any such change in laws, policies or practices could increase our cost of doing business or adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Failure to effectively customize either of our proprietary case management software systems so that they can be used to serve law firm customers in new states could adversely affect our mortgage default processing service business and growth prospects. We have two proprietary case management software systems, each of which stores, manages and reports on the large amount of data associated with each foreclosure, bankruptcy or eviction case file we process. One system was initially built for use in Michigan and the other for use in Texas, both of which are primarily non-judicial foreclosure states. Other states, like Indiana, are judicial foreclosures states. As a result, our law firm customers must satisfy different requirements depending on the state in which they serve their clients. When we enter a service agreement with a law firm customer in a state where we do not currently do business, we would need to customize one of our proprietary case management software systems so that it can be used to assist that customer in satisfying the foreclosure requirements of their state. If we are not, on a timely basis, able to effectively customize one of our case management software systems to serve our new law firm customers, we may not be able to realize the operational efficiencies and increased capacity to handle files that we anticipated when we entered the service agreements. At times, we base the fees we agree to receive from these law firm customers for each case file they direct us to process on the assumption that we would realize those operational efficiencies. Therefore, the failure to effectively customize our case management software system could impact our profitability under our services agreement with new law firm customers in our mortgage default processing services segment. Over the next two years, we intend to migrate our mortgage default processing operations at Barrett-NDEx to the proprietary case management software system initially developed for use in Michigan. To the extent that we are unable to effectively migrate those operations, we may not be able to realize the operational efficiencies and capacity to handle files that we experienced prior to the migration. Risks Relating to Our Business Information Division We depend on the economies and the demographics of our targeted sectors in the local and regional markets that we serve, and changes in those factors could have an adverse impact on our revenues, cash flows and profitability. Our advertising revenues and, to a lesser extent, circulation revenues depend upon a variety of factors specific to the legal, financial and real estate sectors of the 21 markets that our Business Information Division serves. These 18 Table of Contents factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the population, including the number of companies and professionals in our targeted business sectors, and local economic conditions affecting these sectors. For example, if the local economy or targeted business sector in a market we serve experiences a downturn, display and classified advertising, which constituted 30.3%, 37.1% and 41.8% of our Business Information revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, generally decreases for our business information products that target such market or sector. This was the case in 2009, when our display and classified advertising revenues decreased $6.1 million from 2008 due to a decrease in the number of ads placed in our publications as customers tightened discretionary spending in response to the local economic conditions in the markets we serve. Further, if the local economy in a market we serve experiences growth, public notices, which constituted 53.6%, 45.9% and 38.9% of our Business Information revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, may decrease as a result of fewer foreclosure proceedings requiring the posting of public notices. If the level of advertising in our business information products or public notices in our court and commercial newspapers were to decrease, our revenues, cash flows and profitability could be adversely affected. A change in the laws governing public notice requirements, as well as new or increased regulation of residential mortgage products, may delay, reduce or eliminate the amount of public notices required to be published in print, affect how newspapers are chosen for the publication of public notices or adversely change the eligibility requirements for publishing public notices, which could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and growth opportunities. In various states, legislatures have considered proposals that would eliminate or reduce the number of public notices required by statute. In addition, some state legislatures have proposed that state and local governments publish official government notices themselves online. The impetus for the passage of such laws may increase as online alternatives to print sources of information become increasingly familiar and more generally accepted. Some states have also proposed, enacted or interpreted laws to alter the frequency with which public notices are required to be published, reduce the amount of information required to be disclosed in public notices or change the requirements for publications to be eligible to publish public notices. In addition, new or increased government regulation of residential mortgage defaults may result in less or delayed foreclosures and, therefore, the publication of fewer related public notices or a delay in the publication of related public notices. For example, in April 2008, Maryland’s foreclosure law changed to require lenders to wait at least 90 days after default before they can commence an action to foreclose a mortgage. In addition, this law requires lenders to give defaulting mortgagors 45 days written notice of their intent to foreclose. By delaying when we receive public notices from lenders to publish, this change affected public notice revenues at our Maryland operation during the second and third quarters of 2008. Further, legislation changing the public notices required to be published in print or that adversely change the eligibility requirements for publishing public notices in states where we publish or intend to publish court and commercial newspapers would adversely affect our public notice revenues and could adversely affect our ability to differentiate our business information products, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues, profitability and growth opportunities. If our Business Information operations in certain states where we generate a significant portion of that operating division’s revenues are not as successful in the future, our operating results could be adversely affected. Revenues from our publications targeting the Maryland, Minnesota and Missouri markets each accounted for more than 10% of our Business Information revenues in 2009. Publications targeting the Minnesota and Missouri markets each accounted for more than 10% of our Business Information revenues in 2008. As a result, our operating results could be adversely affected if our business information operations in any of these markets are not as successful in the future, whether as a result of a loss of subscribers to our paid publications (in particular, our Lawyers Weekly publication in Missouri, and our Finance & Commerce publication in Minnesota) that serve those markets, a decrease in public notices or advertisements placed in these publications or changes in public notice laws that delay or change the requirements for publishing public notice advertisements (as occurred in Maryland during 2008). 19 Table of Contents A key component of our operating income and operating cash flows has been, and may continue to be, our minority equity investment in a Michigan publishing company. We own 35.0% of the membership interests in The Detroit Legal News Publishing, LLC, or DLNP, the publisher of The Detroit Legal News and ten other publications in Michigan. We account for our investment in DLNP using the equity method, and our share of DLNP’s net income was $4.9 million, $5.6 million and $5.4 million, or 8.8%, 16.5% and 16.8% of our total operating income, in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our share of DLNP’s net income is net of amortization expense of $1.5 million in all three years. In addition, we received an aggregate of $5.6 million, $7.0 million and $5.6 million from DLNP, or 9.1%, 20.3% and 20.5% of our net cash provided by operating activities, in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. If DLNP’s operations, which we do not control, are not as successful in the future, our operating income and cash flows may be adversely affected. For example, the Michigan legislature enacted legislation in 2009 that has resulted in a delay in residential mortgage foreclosures in Michigan (See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Recent Developments — Regulatory Environment” for more information about this new legislation in Michigan). Government regulations related to the Internet could increase our cost of doing business, affect our ability to grow or may otherwise negatively affect our business. Governmental agencies and federal and state legislatures have adopted, and may continue to adopt, new laws and regulatory practices in response to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and other online services. These new laws may be related to issues such as online privacy, copyrights, trademarks and service mark, sales taxes, fair business practices, domain name ownership and the requirement that our operating units register to do business as foreign entities or otherwise be licensed to do business in jurisdictions where they have no physical location or other presence. In addition, these new laws, regulations or interpretations relating to doing business through the Internet could increase our costs materially and adversely affect the revenues and results of operations in our Business Information Division. If we are unable to generate traffic to our online publications and other web sites and electronic services, our ability to continue to grow our Business Information Division may be negatively affected. We have devoted, and expect to devote, a significant amount of resources to distributing the information we provide through the Internet, web sites, electronic mail and other online services and the growth of our Business Information Division will increasingly depend upon our ability to effectively use these methods to provide information to our customers. For these methods to be successful, we will need to attract and retain frequent visitors to our web sites or users of our other electronic services, develop and expand the content, products and other tools that we offer on our web sites and through other electronic services, attract advertisers to our web sites and other electronic services and continue to develop and upgrade our technologies. If we are not successful in our efforts, our Business Information revenues and results of operations and our ability to grow this division will be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Business in General We depend on key personnel and we may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any of our key personnel or are unable to attract qualified personnel in the future. We rely heavily on our senior management team, including James P. Dolan, our founder, chairman, chief executive officer and president; Scott J. Pollei, our executive vice president and chief operating officer; David A. Trott, chairman and chief executive officer of NDeX; Mark W.C. Stodder, our executive vice president-Business Information; and Vicki J. Duncomb, our vice president and chief financial officer, because they have a unique understanding of our diverse product and service offerings and the ability to manage an organization that has a diverse group of employees. Our ability to retain Messrs. Dolan, Pollei, Trott and Stodder and Ms. Duncomb and other key personnel is therefore very important to our future success. In addition, we rely on our senior management, especially Mr. Dolan, to identify growth opportunities through the development or acquisition of 20 Table of Contents additional publications and professional services opportunities, such as our acquisition of DiscoverReady in November 2009 and Barrett-NDEx in September 2008. We have employment agreements with Messrs. Dolan, Pollei, Trott and Stodder and Ms. Duncomb. These employment agreements, however, do not ensure that Messrs. Dolan, Pollei, Trott and Stodder and Ms. Duncomb will not voluntarily terminate their employment with us. Further, we do not typically enter into employment agreements with other key personnel. In addition, our key personnel are subject to non-competition restrictions, which generally restrict such employees from working for competing businesses for a period of one year after the end of their employment with us. These non-compete provisions, however may not be enforceable. We also do not have key man insurance for any of our current management or other key personnel. The loss of any key personnel would require the remaining key personnel to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Competition for senior management personnel is intense. An inability to find a suitable replacement for any departing executive officer or key employee on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. We intend to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities, which we may not do successfully and may subject us to considerable business and financial risks. We have grown, and anticipate that we will continue to grow, through opportunistic acquisitions of professional services and business information businesses. For example, revenues from acquired businesses, specifically Barrett-NDEx, accounted for the increase in our total revenues from 2008 to 2009. While we evaluate potential acquisitions on an ongoing basis, we may not be successful in assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of acquisition opportunities or consummating acquisitions on acceptable terms. For example, to the extent that market studies performed by third parties are not accurate indicators of market and business trends, we may not appropriately evaluate or realize the future market growth or business opportunities in targeted geographic areas and business lines that we expect from an acquisition. Furthermore, we may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities and suitable acquisition opportunities may not even be made available or known to us. In addition, we may compete for certain acquisition targets with companies that have greater financial resources than we do. Our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities may also be limited by non-competition provisions to which we are subject. For example, our ability to carry public notices in Michigan and to provide mortgage default processing services in Florida, Indiana and Minnesota is limited by contractual non-competition provisions. We anticipate financing future acquisitions through cash provided by operating activities, borrowings under our bank credit facility and/or other debt or equity financing, including takedowns on our $200 million shelf registration statement, which the SEC declared effective on January 27, 2010. All of these could reduce our cash available for other purposes or, in the case of a common stock or other equity offering under our shelf registration statement, substantially dilute your investment in us. For example, we were required to incur additional indebtedness to close the acquisitions of Barrett-NDEx and DiscoverReady and this additional debt consumed a significant portion of our ability to borrow and may limit our ability to pursue other acquisitions or growth strategies. We may incur significant expenses while pursuing acquisitions, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations because, beginning January 1, 2009, we are required to expense these costs under current FASB guidance related to business combination accounting. In 2009, we expensed an aggregate of approximately $0.5 million of acquisition costs that we would have previously included in the purchase price allocation of these acquired businesses. Acquisitions that we complete may expose us to particular business and financial risks that include, but are not limited to: • diverting management’s time, attention and resources from managing our business; • incurring additional indebtedness and assuming liabilities; • incurring significant additional capital expenditures and operating expenses to improve, coordinate or integrate managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems; • experiencing an adverse impact on our earnings from non-recurring acquisition-related charges or the write-off or amortization of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets; 21 Table of Contents • failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • facing operational difficulties in new markets or with new product or service offerings; and • failing to retain key personnel and customers of the acquired businesses, including subscribers and advertisers for acquired publications, clients of the law firm customers served by acquired mortgage default processing and other customers served by acquired mortgage default processing and litigation support services businesses. We may not be able to successfully manage acquired businesses or increase our cash flow from these operations. If we are unable to successfully implement our acquisition strategy or address the risks associated with acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired, we may fail to achieve acquisition synergies and we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than other profitable areas. We may have difficulty managing our growth, which may result in operating inefficiencies and negatively impact our operating margins. Our growth may place a significant strain on our management and operations, especially as we continue to expand our product and service offerings, the number of markets we serve and the number of local offices we maintain throughout the United States, including through acquiring new businesses. We may not be able to manage our growth on a timely or cost effective basis or accurately predict the timing or rate of this growth. We believe that our current and anticipated growth will require us to continue implementing new and enhanced systems, expanding and upgrading our data processing software and training our personnel to utilize these systems and software. Our growth has also required, and will continue to require, that we increase our investment in management personnel, financial and management systems and controls and office facilities. In particular, we are, and will continue to be, highly dependent on the effective and reliable operation of our centralized accounting, circulation and information systems. In addition, the scope of procedures for assuring compliance with applicable rules and regulations has changed as the size and complexity of our business has changed. If we fail to manage these and other growth requirements successfully or if we are unable to implement or maintain our centralized systems, or rely on their output, we may experience operating inefficiencies or not achieve anticipated efficiencies. In addition, the increased costs associated with our expected growth may not be offset by corresponding increases in our revenues, which would decrease our operating margins. Our business and reputation could suffer if third-party providers of printing, delivery and outsourced technology services that we rely upon, as well as newspapers, including The Detroit Legal News Publishing, where we place foreclosure public notices fail to perform satisfactorily. We outsource a significant amount of our printing to third-party printing companies. As a result, we are unable to ensure directly that the final printed product is of a quality acceptable to our subscribers. We also outsource a significant amount of our technology and software systems support to third-party information technology vendors. Further, we rely on public notice newspapers in the markets where we process mortgage default files, including Detroit Legal News Publishing, to timely and accurately publish our foreclosure public notices. To the extent that any of these third party providers do not perform their services satisfactorily, do not have the resources to meet our needs or decide or are unable to provide these services to us on commercially reasonable terms, our ability to provide timely and dependable business information products, as well as our professional services, could be adversely affected. In addition, we could face increased costs or delays if we must identify and retain other third-party providers of these services. Most of our print publications are delivered to our subscribers by the U.S. Postal Service. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in the delivery of our print publications by the U.S. Postal Service. To the extent we try to avoid these delays by using third-party carriers other than the U.S. Postal Service to deliver our print products, we will incur increased operating costs. In addition, the U.S. Postal Service is considering eliminating Saturday delivery from its services. To the extent this change is implemented, it may have an adverse affect on our Minnesota and Missouri business information operations, who publish Saturday editions for certain of 22 Table of Contents their papers. In addition, timely delivery of our publications is extremely important to many of our advertisers, public notice publishers and subscribers. Any delays in delivery of our print publications to our subscribers could negatively affect our reputation, cause us to lose advertisers, public notice publishers and subscribers and limit our ability to attract new advertisers, public notice publishers and subscribers. We rely on our proprietary case management software systems, document conversion and review systems, web sites and online networks, and a disruption, failure or security compromise of these systems may disrupt our business, damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our proprietary case management software systems are critical to our mortgage default processing service business because it enables us to efficiently and timely service a large number of foreclosure, bankruptcy, eviction and, to a lesser extent, litigation and other mortgage default related case files. Our litigation support services businesses rely upon our proprietary document conversion and review systems that facilitate our efficient processing of appellate briefs, records and appendices and document reviews. Similarly, we rely on our web sites and email notification systems to provide timely, relevant and dependable business information to our customers. Therefore, network or system shutdowns caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural disasters and similar events, could have an adverse impact on our operations, customer satisfaction and revenues due to degradation of service, service disruption or damage to equipment and data. In addition to shutdowns, our systems are subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information, including sensitive case file data maintained in our proprietary case management systems and credit card information for our business information customers. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, the potential misuse of such information and legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection and security of personal information, information-related risks are increasing, particularly for businesses like ours that handle a large amount of personal data. Disruptions or security compromises of our systems could result in large expenditures to repair or replace such systems, remedy any security breaches and protect us from similar events in the future. We also could be exposed to negligence claims or other legal proceedings brought by our customers or their clients, and we could incur significant legal expenses and our management’s attention may be diverted from our operations in defending ourselves against and resolving lawsuits or claims. In addition, if we were to suffer damage to our reputation as a result of any system failure or security compromise, NDeX’s customers and/or their clients could choose to send fewer foreclosure, bankruptcy or eviction case files to us and/or our law firm customers. Any reduction in the number of case files handled by our customers would also reduce the number of mortgage default case files we by us. Similarly, our litigation support services clients may elect to use other service providers. In addition, customers of our Business Information Division may seek out alternative sources of the business information available on our web sites and email notification systems. Further, in the event that any disruption or security compromise constituted a material breach under our services agreements, our law firm customers could terminate these agreements. In any of these cases, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. We may be required to incur additional indebtedness or raise additional capital to fund our operations and acquisitions, repay our indebtedness and fund capital expenditures and this additional cash may not be available to us on satisfactory timing or terms or at all. Our ability to generate cash depends to some extent on general economic, financial, legislative and regulatory conditions in the markets which we serve and as they relate to the industries in which we do business and other factors outside of our control. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from foreclosures (approximately 76% of our total revenues in the 2009). Therefore, legislation, loss mitigation, moratoria, loan modifications and other efforts that significantly mitigate and/or delay foreclosures may adversely impact our ability to use cash flow from operations to fund day-to-day operations in our mortgage default processing services segment and Professional Services Division, and, to a lesser extent, our Business Information Division, to repay our indebtedness, when due, to fund capital expenditures, to meet our cash flow needs and to pursue any material expansion of our business, 23 Table of Contents including through acquisitions or increased capital spending. We may, therefore, need to incur additional indebtedness or raise funds from the sale of additional equity. Financing, however, may not be available to us at all, at an acceptable cost or on acceptable terms, when needed. Our existing bank credit facility may also limit our ability to raise additional funds through debt or equity financing. In addition, if we issue a significant amount of additional equity securities, the market price of our common stock could decline and our stockholders could suffer significant dilution of their interests in us. If our indefinite-lived intangible assets (including goodwill) or finite-life intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. In the course of our operating history, we have acquired numerous assets and businesses. Some of our acquisitions have resulted in the recording of a significant amount of indefinite-lived and finite-life intangible assets on our financial statements. At December 31, 2009, our indefinite-lived intangible assets (including goodwill) were $222.6 million, in the aggregate, and our finite-life intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, were $193.7 million. If we acquire new assets or businesses in the future, as we intend to do, we may record additional goodwill or other intangible assets. We assess our goodwill for impairment on an annual basis using a measurement date of November 30 and, based on this assessment, we have determined that our goodwill is not impaired. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets” later in this report for information for our annual test of goodwill impairment. Accounting standards require that we also assess the impairment of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets whenever events, circumstances or other conditions indicate that we may not recover the carrying value of the asset. This may require us to conduct an interim assessment of our goodwill and finite-life intangible assets. As a result of this interim assessment, we may record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or identifiable intangible assets is determined. This charge, if taken, could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and future earnings and, as a result, could cause our stock price to decline. We are subject to risks relating to litigation due to the nature of our product and service offerings. We may, from time to time, be subject to or named as a party in libel actions, negligence claims, and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business given the editorial content of our business information products and the technical rules with which our litigation support services and mortgage default processing businesses must comply and the strict deadlines these businesses must meet. We could incur significant legal expenses and our management’s attention may be diverted from our operations in defending ourselves against and resolving lawsuits or claims. An adverse resolution of any future lawsuits or claims against us could result in a negative perception of us and cause the market price of our common stock to decline or otherwise have an adverse effect on our operating results and growth prospects. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained on our debt instruments could result in an event of default that could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to operate our business as planned. We have, and will continue to have, significant debt and debt service obligations. Our credit agreement contains, and any agreements to refinance our debt likely will contain, financial and restrictive covenants that limit our ability to incur additional debt, including to finance future operations or other capital needs, and to engage in other activities that we may believe are in our long-term best interests, including to dispose of or acquire assets. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the banks accelerating the maturity of our indebtedness or preventing us from accessing availability under our credit facility. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient cash resources to satisfy our debt obligations and we may not be able to continue our operations as planned. In addition, the indebtedness under our credit agreement is secured by a security interest in substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets, including the equity interests of our subsidiaries, and therefore, if we are unable to repay such indebtedness the banks could foreclose on these assets and sell the pledged equity interests, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. 24 Table of Contents We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights, particularly those in our Business Information Division. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States to protect our rights to the marks “DOLAN MEDIA COMPANY,” and “DOLAN MEDIA,” as well as distinctive logos and other marks associated with our print and online publications and services in our Professional Services Division. These measures may not be adequate, we may not have secured, or may not be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights in the United States, or third parties may infringe upon or violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to use our trademarks and other proprietary rights for their similar uses. Our management’s attention may be diverted by these attempts and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. Third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the trademarks, copyright or other proprietary rights of that third party. Some third party proprietary rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid those intellectual property rights. Any such claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. Our general liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our classes or pay monetary damages, which may be significant. Risks Associated with Purchasing Our Common Stock Our common stock has a limited trading history and, during that time, the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. The market price of our common stock depends on a variety of factors, which could cause our common stock to trade at prices below the price you have paid. Our common stock has traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “DM” since August 2, 2007. Since that time and through March 1, 2010, the closing sales price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $30.84 to a low of $2.97 per share. The market price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could affect our share price include, but are not limited to: • variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • changes in the legal or regulatory environment affecting our business; • changes in our earnings estimates or expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • the contents of published research reports about us or our industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • any increased indebtedness we may incur in the future; • announcements by us or others and developments affecting us; • actions by institutional stockholders; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • speculation or reports by the press or investment community with respect to us or our industry in general; and • general economic, market and political conditions. 25 Table of Contents These factors could cause our common stock to trade at prices below the price you paid for our common stock, which could prevent you from selling your common stock at or above this price. In addition, the stock market in general, and the New York Stock Exchange in particular, has from time to time, and most recently, during the fourth quarter of 2008, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of individual securities. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of publicly traded companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against that company. If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our operations. Future offerings of debt or equity securities by us may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or your rights as holders of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by offering debt or additional equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes, shares of preferred stock, shares of our common stock, and/or warrants through our $200 million shelf registration statement the SEC declared effective on January 27, 2010. Upon liquidation, holders of such debt securities and preferred shares, if issued, and lenders with respect to other borrowings, would receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the economic and voting rights of our existing stockholders and/or reduce the market price of our common stock. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately 36 million shares of common stock authorized but not issued and not reserved for issuance under our incentive compensation plan or employee stock purchase plan and 5 million shares of authorized but unissued preferred stock. We may issue all of these shares without any action or approval by our stockholders. We intend to continue to actively pursue acquisitions and may issue shares of common stock in connection with these acquisitions. Further, we may issue additional equity interests in NDeX in connection with acquisitions of mortgage default processing service businesses or in DiscoverReady in connection with acquisitions of document review and discovery management services businesses. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Future sales of our common stock in the public market may adversely affect the market price of our common stock or our ability to raise additional capital. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or limit our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. Other than restricted shares of common stock issued to our employees under our incentive compensation plan, shares issued to the Trott sellers in connection with the acquisition of their interest in NDeX in December 2009 (which we are required to register for resale), and shares of our common stock held by our “affiliates,” all of our outstanding shares of common stock are freely tradeable. Shares held by our affiliates are subject to the volume, manner of sale, and notice restrictions of Rule 144. In addition, our certificate of incorporation permits the issuance of up to 70 million shares of common stock. At December 31, 2009, we had an aggregate of approximately 36 million shares of our common stock authorized but unissued, exclusive of shares reserved for issuance under our equity compensation and employee stock purchase plan. Thus, we have the ability to issue substantial amounts of common stock in the future, which would dilute the percentage ownership held by current investors. In addition, on January 27, 2010, the SEC declared our shelf registration statement effective. Under the terms of this registration statement, we can offer for sale in one or more transactions shares of our common stock or preferred stock and other securities, having an aggregate value of up to $200 million. If we issue any shares of our common stock or preferred stock or any securities convertible into shares of common stock or preferred stock under this registration statement, such issuance would dilute the percentage ownership our investors own in our common stock. In connection with our initial public offering, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act covering 2,700,000 shares of common stock that have been issued or will be issuable pursuant to our incentive compensation plan and 900,000 shares of common stock that will be issuable pursuant to an employee stock purchase plan, to the extent we decide to implement one, which in the aggregate equals 12.0% of the aggregate number of shares of our common stock that are outstanding as of December 31, 2009. Accordingly, subject to 26 Table of Contents applicable vesting requirements, the exercise of options, and the provisions of Rule 144 with respect to affiliates, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 will be available for sale in the open market. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws and stockholder rights plan may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that you may consider favorable or prevent the removal of our current board of directors and management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and stockholder rights plan could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock and your rights as a holder of our common stock. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws (1) permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock with rights and preferences designated by our board, (2) stagger the terms of our board of directors into three classes and (3) impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at stockholders’ meetings. In addition, our stockholder rights plan, which our board adopted on January 29, 2009, entitles the holders of rights, when exercisable, to acquire, in exchange for the exercise price of each right, shares of our common stock, having a value equal to two times the exercise price of each right. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company. In addition, our bank credit facility contains provisions that could limit our ability to enter into change of control transactions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 