Item 1A. Risk FactorsInvestment in our capital stock involves significant risks. If any of the risks discussed in this report occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risk factors set forth below are not the only risks that may affect us. Some statements in this report, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Forward Looking Statements.” Risks Related To Our Business Increases in interest rates and adverse market conditions may negatively affect the value of our investments and increase the cost of our borrowings, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and reduced cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We invest indirectly in mortgage loans by purchasing Agency RMBS. Under a normal yield curve, an investment in Agency RMBS will decline in value if long term interest rates increase. In addition, net interest income could decrease if the yield curve becomes inverted or flat. Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees of the principal and interest payments related to the Agency RMBS we own do not protect us from declines in market value caused by changes in interest rates. Declines in the market value of our investments may ultimately result in losses to us, which may reduce earnings and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A significant risk associated with our investment in Agency RMBS is that both long term and short term interest rates will increase significantly. If long term rates were to increase significantly, the market value of our Agency RMBS would decline, and the duration and weighted average life of the investments would increase. We could realize a loss if the securities were sold. At the same time, an increase in short term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on our repurchase agreements used to finance the purchase of Agency RMBS, which would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Market values of our investments may decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments for those investments that we have that are subject to prepayment risk and widening of credit spreads. If the market values of our investments were to decline for any reason, the value of your investment could also decline. We leverage our portfolio investments in Agency RMBS, which may adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We leverage our portfolio investments in Agency RMBS through borrowings under repurchase agreements. Leverage can enhance our potential returns but can also exacerbate losses. The percentage of leverage will vary depending on our ability to obtain these financing facilities. As of December 31, 2013, our portfolio leverage ratio (calculated by dividing (i) our repurchase agreements balance plus payable for securities purchased minus receivable for securities sold by (ii) net assets) was approximately 6.97 to 1. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced if market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, our debt service payments will reduce cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations. To the extent that we cannot meet our debt service obligations, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy our debt obligations. 6Table of ContentsOur lenders may require us to provide additional collateral, especially when the market values for our investments decline, which may restrict us from leveraging our assets as fully as desired, and reduce our liquidity, earnings and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We currently use repurchase agreements to finance our investments in Agency RMBS. Our repurchase agreements allow the lenders, to varying degrees, to determine a new market value of the collateral to reflect current market conditions. If the market value of the securities pledged or sold by us to a funding source declines, we may be required by the lender to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced on minimal notice, which is known as a margin call. Posting additional collateral will reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets, which could adversely affect our business. Additionally, in order to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur further losses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may impair our ability to maintain our current level of distributions to our stockholders. We receive margin calls from our repurchase agreement counterparties from time to time in the ordinary course of business similar to other entities in the specialty finance business. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $1,115.8 million, or 63.1% of our net assets, in Agency RMBS, U.S. Treasury securities, cash and cash equivalents available to satisfy future margin calls. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy these margin calls, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness, increase our borrowing rates, liquidate our collateral and terminate our ability to borrow. Such a situation would likely result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and possibly necessitate a filing for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Hedging against interest rate exposure does not completely insulate us from interest rate risk and may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distributions to our stockholders. Subject to compliance with the requirements to qualify as a REIT, we engage in certain hedging transactions to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates and therefore may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors and Eurodollar and U.S. Treasury futures to seek to hedge the interest rate risk associated with our portfolio. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, we may establish other hedging positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of our hedging transactions depends on our ability to accurately predict movements of interest rates and credit spreads. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. We currently hedge against interest rate risk. Our hedging activity varies in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of portfolio investments held and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: •interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile interest rates;•available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;•the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability;•the credit quality of the hedging counterparty may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and•the counterparty in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay.Our interest rate hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders and negatively impact our stock price. Our use of repurchase agreements may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or any of our lenders file for bankruptcy, which may make it difficult for us to recover our collateral. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay if we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that any of our lenders file for bankruptcy. Thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to 7Table of Contentsrisk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either our lenders or us. In addition, if the lender is a broker or dealer subject to the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 or an insured depository institution subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, our ability to exercise our rights to recover our investment under a repurchase agreement or to be compensated for any damages resulting from the lender’s insolvency may be further limited by those statutes. Our use of certain hedging techniques may expose us to counterparty risks. If an interest rate swap counterparty cannot perform under the terms of the interest rate swap, we may not receive payments due under that swap, and thus, we may lose any unrealized gain associated with the interest rate swap. The hedged liability could cease to be hedged by the interest rate swap. Additionally, we may risk the loss of any collateral we have pledged to secure our obligations under the interest rate swap if the counterparty becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy. Similarly, if an interest rate cap counterparty fails to perform under the terms of the interest rate cap agreement, we may not receive payments due under that agreement that would offset our interest expense. We could then incur a loss for the then remaining fair market value of the interest rate cap. If the lending institution under one or more of our repurchase agreements defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the agreement term, we will lose money on our repurchase transactions. When we engage in a repurchase transaction, we initially sell securities to the transaction counterparty under a master repurchase agreement in exchange for cash from the counterparty. The counterparty is obligated to resell the same securities back to us at the end of the term of the repurchase agreement, which typically is 30 to 90 days but may be longer. If the counterparty in a repurchase transaction defaults on its obligation to resell the securities back to us, we will incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming no change in the value of the securities). Losses incurred on our repurchase transactions would adversely affect our earnings and our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If we default on our obligations under our repurchase agreements, we may be unable to establish a suitable replacement facility on acceptable terms or at all. If we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase agreement, the counterparty may terminate the agreement and cease entering into any other repurchase agreements with us. In that case, we would likely need to establish a replacement repurchase facility with another financial institution in order to continue to leverage our investment portfolio and carry out our investment strategy. We may be unable to establish a suitable replacement repurchase facility on acceptable terms or at all. Failure to procure adequate funding and capital would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the value of our common stock and our ability to distribute cash to our stockholders. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations. To maintain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income annually, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, to our stockholders and therefore are not able to retain our earnings for new investments. We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. In the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding and capital on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, and you may lose part or all of your investment. The U.S. Federal Reserve reducing its monthly purchases pursuant to QE3 could impact the market for and value of the Agency RMBS in which we invest as well as our net asset value and net interest margin.On September 13, 2012, the U.S. Federal Reserve announced a third round of quantitative easing, or QE3, which is an open-ended program designed to expand the Federal Reserve’s holdings of long-term securities by purchasing an additional $40 billion of Agency RMBS per month until key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate, show signs of improvement. In December 2012, the U.S. Federal Reserve announced that it would begin buying $45 billion of long-term Treasury bonds each month. On December 18, 2013, the U.S. Federal Reserve announced that it would reduce its purchases of both Agency RMBS and Treasury bonds by $5 billion each for the month of January. On January 29, 2014, the U.S. Federal Reserve announced additional $5 billion reductions to its monthly purchase of both Agency RMBS and Treasury bonds to take effect in February 2014.The immediate effect of the announcement of QE3 was an increase in Agency RMBS prices. Since the initial price spike, prices for all securities have receded below the price levels that existed before the announcement of QE3. It is unclear what effect, if any, the incremental reduction in the rate of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s monthly purchases will have on the value of the Agency RMBS in which we invest. However, it is possible that the market for such securities, the price of such securities and, as a result, our net asset value and net interest margin could be negatively affected.8Table of ContentsAdoption of the Basel III standards and other proposed supplementary regulatory standards may negatively impact our access to financing or affect the terms of our future financing arrangements.In response to various financial crises and the volatility of financial markets, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision adopted the Basel III standards several years ago. The final package of Basel III reforms was approved by the G20 leaders in November 2010. In January 2013, the Basel Committee agreed to delay implementation of the Basel III standards and expanded the scope of assets permitted to be included in a bank’s liquidity measurement.U.S. regulators have elected to implement substantially all of the Basel III standards. Financial institutions will have until 2019 to fully comply with the Basel III standards, which could cause an increase in capital requirements for, and could place constraints on, the financial institutions from which we borrow.Shortly after approving the Basel III standards, U.S. regulators also issued a notice of proposed rule-making calling for enhanced supplementary leverage ratio standards, which would impose capital requirements more stringent than those of the Basel III standards for the most systematically significant banking organizations in the U.S. The enhanced standards are currently subject to public comment, and there can be no assurance that they will be adopted or, if adopted, that they will resemble the current proposal. Adoption and implementation of the Basel III standards and the supplemental regulatory standards proposed by U.S. regulators may negatively impact our access to financing or affect the terms of our future financing arrangements.Clearing facilities or exchanges upon which some of our hedging instruments are cleared may increase margin requirements on our hedging instruments in the event of adverse economic developments.In response to events having or expected to have adverse economic consequences or which create market uncertainty, clearing facilities or exchanges upon which some of our hedging instruments, such as interest rate caps and swaps, are traded may require us to post additional collateral against our hedging instruments. In response to the U.S. approaching its debt ceiling without resolution and the government shutdown, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange announced on October 15, 2013 that it would increase margin requirements by 12% for all over-the-counter interest rate swap portfolios that its clearinghouse guaranteed. This increase was subsequently rolled back on October 17, 2013 upon the news that Congress passed legislation to temporarily suspend the debt ceiling and reopen the government, which allowed time for broader negotiations concerning budgetary issues. In the event that future adverse economic developments or market uncertainty result in increased margin requirements for our hedging instruments, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity position, business, financial condition and results of operations.Loss of our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act would negatively affect the value of shares of our common stock and our ability to distribute cash to our stockholders. We have operated and intend to continue to operate our business so as to be exempt from registration under the Investment Company Act because we are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Specifically, we invest and intend to continue to invest so that at least 55% of the assets that we own on an unconsolidated basis consist of qualifying mortgages and other liens and interests in real estate, which are collectively referred to as “qualifying real estate assets,” and so that at least 80% of the assets we own on an unconsolidated basis consist of real estate related assets (including our qualifying real estate assets). We treat Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae whole-pool residential mortgage pass-through securities issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgage loans in which we hold all of the certificates issued by the pool as qualifying real estate assets. Although CMOs are real estate related assets, they are not “qualifying real estate assets” for purposes of the Investment Company Act. On August 31, 2011, the SEC issued a concept release (No. IC-29778; File No. SW7-34-11, Companies Engaged in the Business of Acquiring Mortgages and Mortgage-Related Instruments) pursuant to which it is reviewing whether certain companies that invest in RMBS and rely on the exemption from registration under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act (such as us) should be allowed to continue relying on such exemption from registration. If we fail to qualify for this exemption, or the SEC determines that companies that invest in RMBS are no longer able to rely on this exemption, we could be required to restructure our activities in a manner that, or at a time when, we would not otherwise choose to do so, or we may be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, either of which could negatively affect the value of shares of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The federal conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government, may adversely affect our business. The payments we receive on the Agency RMBS in which we invest depend upon a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities and are guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Ginnie Mae is part of a U.S. Government agency and its guarantees are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Fannie Mae and Freddie 9Table of ContentsMac are U.S. Government-sponsored entities (“GSEs”), but their guarantees are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Since 2007, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have reported substantial losses and a need for substantial amounts of additional capital. In response to the deteriorating financial condition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the recent credit market disruption, Congress and the U.S. Treasury undertook a series of actions to stabilize these GSEs and the financial markets, generally. The Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 was signed into law on July 30, 2008, and established the Federal Housing Finance Agency, (“FHFA”), with enhanced regulatory authority over, among other things, the business activities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the size of their portfolio holdings. On September 7, 2008, in response to the deterioration in the financial condition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the FHFA placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship, which is a statutory process pursuant to which the FHFA will operate Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as conservator in an effort to stabilize the entities. Together with the U.S. Treasury and the U.S. Federal Reserve, the Federal Housing Administration ("FHA") has undertaken actions designed to boost investor confidence in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, support the availability of mortgage financing and protect taxpayers. The appointment of the FHFA as conservator of both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac allows the FHFA to control the actions of the two GSEs without forcing them to liquidate, which would be the case under receivership. In addition, the U.S. Treasury has taken steps to capitalize and provide financing to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and agreed to purchase direct obligations and Agency RMBS issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Shortly after Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed in federal conservatorship, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, in announcing the actions, noted that the guarantee structure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac required examination and that changes in the structures of the entities were necessary to reduce risk to the financial system. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be eliminated or considerably limited relative to historical measurements. Any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitutes Agency RMBS and could have broad adverse market implications as well as negatively impact us. The problems faced by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac resulting in their being placed into federal conservatorship have stirred debate among some federal policy makers regarding the continued role of the U.S. Government in providing liquidity for the residential mortgage market. If federal policy makers decide that the U.S. Government’s role in providing liquidity for the residential mortgage market should be reduced or eliminated, each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be dissolved and the U.S. Government could decide to stop providing liquidity support of any kind to the mortgage market. If Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac were eliminated, or their structures were to change radically, we would not be able to acquire Agency RMBS from these companies, which would drastically reduce the amount and type of Agency RMBS available for investment. As of December 31, 2013, 99.9% of our investments had the principal and interest guaranteed by either Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae or were U.S. Treasury securities. Our income could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold. For example, the current credit support provided by the U.S. Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rate we receive from Agency RMBS, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted investments and our cost of financing that portfolio. A reduction in the supply of Agency RMBS could also increase the prices of Agency RMBS we seek to acquire thereby reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. As indicated above, recent legislation has changed the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government and requires Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce the amount of mortgage loans they own or for which they provide guarantees on Agency RMBS. The effect of the actions taken by the U.S. Government remains uncertain. Furthermore, the scope and nature of the actions that the U.S. Government will ultimately undertake are unknown and will continue to evolve. Future legislation could further change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government, and could also nationalize or eliminate these GSEs entirely. Any law affecting these GSEs may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. As a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on investments in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Agency RMBS. It is also possible that such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and the spreads at which they trade. All of the foregoing could materially adversely affect the pricing, supply, liquidity and value of our target assets and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. 10Table of ContentsWe cannot predict the impact, if any, on our earnings or cash available for distribution to our stockholders of the FHFA's proposed revisions to Fannie Mae's, Freddie Mac's and Ginnie Mae's existing infrastructures to align the standards and practices of the three entities. On February 21, 2012, the FHFA released its Strategic Plan for Enterprise Conservatorships, which set forth three goals for the next phase of the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac conservatorships. These three goals are to (i) build a new infrastructure for the secondary mortgage market, (ii) gradually contract Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's presence in the marketplace while simplifying and shrinking their operations, and (iii) maintain foreclosure prevention activities and credit availability for new and refinanced mortgages. On October 4, 2012, the FHFA released its white paper entitled Building a New Infrastructure for the Secondary Mortgage Market, which proposes a new infrastructure for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that has two basic goals. The first such goal is to replace the current, outdated infrastructures of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with a common, more efficient infrastructure that aligns the standards and practices of the two entities, beginning with core functions performed by both entities such as issuance, master servicing, bond administration, collateral management and data integration. The second goal is to establish an operating framework for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that is consistent with the progress of housing finance reform and encourages and accommodates the increased participation of private capital in assuming credit risk associated with the secondary mortgage market.The FHFA recognizes that there are a number of impediments to their goals which may or may not be surmountable, such as the absence of any significant secondary mortgage market mechanisms beyond Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, and that their proposals are in the formative stages. As a result, it is unclear if the proposals will be enacted. If such proposals are enacted, it is unclear how closely what is enacted will resemble the proposals from the FHFA White Paper or what the effects of the enactment will be in terms of our net asset value, earnings or cash available for distribution to our stockholders.Separate legislation has been introduced in both houses of the U.S. Congress, which would, among other things, revoke the charters of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and we could be materially adversely affected if these proposed laws were enacted. On June 25, 2013, a bipartisan group of senators introduced the Housing Finance Reform and Taxpayer Protection Act of 2013, which may serve as a catalyst for congressional discussion on the reform of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to the U.S. Senate. On July 11, 2013, members of the House Committee on Financial Services introduced the Protecting American Taxpayers and Homeowners Act to the U.S. House of Representatives. While the two bills are distinguishable in many respects, they have some notable commonalities. Both bills call for the revocation of the charters of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and seek to increase the opportunities for private capital to participate in, and consequently bear the risk of loss in connection with, government-guaranteed mortgage back securities. Both bills also have considerable support in their respective houses of Congress, which suggests that efforts to reform and possibly eliminate Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may be gaining momentum. The passage of any new legislation affecting Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may create market uncertainty and reduce the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government through a new or existing successor entity to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. If the charters of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were revoked, it is unclear what effect, if any, this would have on the value of the existing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Agency RMBS. It is also possible that the above-referenced proposed legislation, if made law, could adversely impact the market for securities issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government and the spreads at which they trade. The foregoing could materially adversely affect the pricing, supply, liquidity and value of our target assets and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition.Mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the Agency RMBS in which we invest. During the second half of 2008, the U.S. Government, through the FHA, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), commenced implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures. These and any future programs may involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans. In addition, in February 2009 the U.S. Treasury announced the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, or HASP, which is a multi-faceted plan, intended to prevent residential mortgage foreclosures by, among other things: •allowing certain homeowners whose homes are encumbered by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac conforming mortgages to refinance those mortgages into lower interest rate mortgages with either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac;11Table of Contents•creating the Homeowner Stability Initiative, which is intended to utilize various incentives for banks and mortgage servicers to modify residential mortgage loans with the goal of reducing monthly mortgage principal and interest payments for certain qualified homeowners; and•allowing judicial modifications of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac conforming residential mortgage loans during bankruptcy proceedings.In September 2011, the White House announced they were working on a major plan to allow some of the 11 million homeowners who owe more on their mortgages than their homes are worth to refinance. In October 2011, the FHFA announced proposed changes to the Home Affordable Refinance Program (“HARP”) that would expand access to refinancing for qualified individuals and families whose homes have lost value, among other things, increasing the HARP loan-to-value ratio above 125%. However, this would only apply to mortgages guaranteed by the GSEs. There are many challenging issues to this proposal, notably the question as to whether a loan with a loan-to-value ratio of 125% qualifies as a mortgage or an unsecured consumer loan. The chances of this initiative’s success have created additional uncertainty in the RMBS market, particularly with respect to possible increases in prepayment rates. On January 4, 2012, the U.S. Federal Reserve issued a white paper outlining additional ideas with regard to refinancing’s and loan modifications. It is likely that loan modifications would result in increased prepayments on some Agency RMBS. See“—Prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our Agency RMBS, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders,” for information relating to the impact of prepayments on our business. These initiatives, any future loan modification programs and future legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the Agency RMBS, CMOs and U.S. Agency Debentures in which we may invest. On December 10, 2013, Mel Watt was confirmed as the new Director of the FHFA, which may result in new mortgage loan or refinancing programs that could adversely impact market pricing and liquidity for our securities or the securities we target for future purchase.Prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our Agency RMBS, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In the case of residential mortgage loans, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ abilities to prepay their loans. Homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when applicable mortgage interest rates decline. Furthermore, both HARP and QE3 could cause an increase in prepayment rates. Consequently, owners of the loans have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when mortgage interest rates remain steady or increase. Consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher prevailing interest rates. This volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our Agency RMBS portfolio and may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees of principal and interest related to the Agency RMBS we own do not protect us against prepayment risks. Our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value based on market quotations from pricing services and broker/dealers. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. All of our current portfolio investments are, and some of our future portfolio investments will be, in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We currently value and will continue to value these investments monthly at fair value as determined by our management based on market quotations from pricing services and brokers/dealers. Because such quotations and valuations are inherently uncertain, they may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, and our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a public market for these securities existed. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. We are required to discontinue use of investment company accounting effective on January 1, 2014.We adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification, Clarification on the Scope of Audit and Accounting Guide Investment Companies ("ASC 946"), prior to its deferral in February 2008. In June 2013, the FASB issued a new standard that clarifies the characteristics of an investment company and provides comprehensive guidance for assessing whether an entity is an investment company. Based on the new standard, we can no longer use investment company accounting effective January 1, 2014, with retrospective application. This change could be confusing to investors, impact their understanding of our financial statements and potentially affect the value of the shares of our common stock. 12Table of ContentsOur delayed delivery transactions, including “to-be-announced” transactions ("TBAs"), subject us to certain risks, including price risks and counterparty risks. We purchase a substantial portion of our Agency RMBS through delayed delivery transactions, including TBAs. In a delayed delivery transaction, we enter into a forward purchase agreement with a counterparty to purchase either (i) an identified Agency RMBS, or (ii) a to-be-issued (or “to-be-announced”) Agency RMBS with certain terms. As with any forward purchase contract, the value of the underlying Agency RMBS may decrease between the contract date and the settlement date. Furthermore, a transaction counterparty may fail to deliver the underlying Agency RMBS at the settlement date. If any of the above risks were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. An increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our assets may impair our profitability and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. As our repurchase agreements and other short term borrowings mature, we must either enter into new borrowings or liquidate certain of our investments at times when we might not otherwise choose to do so. Lenders may seek to use a maturity date as an opportune time to demand additional terms or increased collateral requirements that could be adverse to us and harm our operations. An increase in short term interest rates when we seek new borrowings would reduce the spread between our returns on our assets and the cost of our borrowings. This would reduce the returns on our assets, which might reduce earnings and in turn cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We generally expect that the interest rates tied to our borrowings will adjust more rapidly than the interest rates tied to the assets in which we invest. We are dependent on our key personnel and the loss of such key personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We are dependent on the efforts of our key officers and employees, including Kevin E. Grant, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Investment Officer. Although we have an employment agreement with him, we cannot assure you that he will remain employed with us. The loss of Mr. Grant’s services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make. We compete with other REITs, financial companies, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, the U.S. Federal Reserve, other governmental entities or government sponsored entities and commercial finance companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Several other REITs may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create competition for investment opportunities. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. We provide no assurances that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives. Our board of directors does not approve each of our investment decisions, and may change our investment guidelines without notice or stockholder consent, which may result in riskier investments. Our directors periodically reviews our investment guidelines, our investment portfolio, and potential investment strategies. However, our board of directors does not pre-approve individual investments leaving management with day to day discretion over the portfolio composition within the investment guidelines. Within those guidelines, management has discretion to significantly change the composition of the portfolio. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, the directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by our management. Our board of directors has the authority to change our investment guidelines at any time without notice to or consent from our stockholders. In 2008, our board of directors amended our investment guidelines to require that we invest exclusively in Agency RMBS. In 2010, our board of directors modified our investment guidelines to permit investments in CMOs. In 2012, our board of directors amended our investment guidelines to allow us to invest in U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Agency Debentures. To the extent that our investment guidelines change in the future, we may make investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A change in our investment guidelines may increase our exposure to interest rate and real estate market fluctuations.Most hedging instruments are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or a clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. 13Table of ContentsIn addition, hedging instruments typically involve risk because most of them are not currently traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction most likely will result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. In addition, we may not always be able to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to unexpected economic losses in the future. Swaps, caps and certain options and other custom instruments are subject to the risk of non-performance by the counterparty, including risks relating to the creditworthiness of the counterparty. In addition, we are subject to the risk of the failure of any of the exchanges or clearing houses on which we trade. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we may enter into interest rate swaps and caps. Swap and cap agreements can be individually negotiated and structured to include exposure to a variety of different types of investments or market factors. Depending on their structure, swap and cap agreements may increase or decrease exposure to long term or short term interest rates (in the United States or abroad), foreign currency values, mortgage securities, corporate borrowing rates, or other factors such as security prices, baskets of equity securities or inflation rates. Swap agreements can take many different forms and are known by a variety of names. We are not precluded from any particular form of swap or option agreement if we determine it is consistent with our investment objectives and policies. Swap and cap agreements tend to shift investment exposure from one type of investment to another. Depending on how they are used, swap and cap agreements may increase or decrease the overall volatility of our portfolio. The most significant factor in the performance of swap agreements is the change in the specific interest rate, currency, individual equity values or other factors that determine the amounts of payments due to and from us. If a swap agreement calls for payments or collateral transfers by us, we must be prepared to make such payments and transfers when due. Additionally, if a counterparty’s creditworthiness declines, the value of swap agreements with the counterparty can be expected to decline, potentially resulting in losses by us. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and certain commodity exchanges have established limits referred to as speculative position limits or position limits on the maximum net long or net short position that any person or group of persons may hold or control in particular futures and options. Limits on trading in options contracts also have been established by the various options exchanges. It is possible that trading decisions may have to be modified and that positions held may have to be liquidated to avoid exceeding such limits. Such modification or liquidation, if required, could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, such as the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by any event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the derivative contract. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open derivative positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These potential payments will be contingent liabilities and therefore may not appear on our balance sheet. The economic losses will be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time. The need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. Failure to obtain and maintain an exemption from being regulated as a commodity pool operator could subject us to additional regulation and compliance requirements and may result in fines and other penalties which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), established a comprehensive new regulatory framework for derivative contracts commonly referred to as “swaps.” As a result, any investment fund that trades in swaps may be considered a “commodity pool,” which would cause its operators (and in some cases the fund's directors) to be regulated as “commodity pool operators” ("CPOs"). Under new rules adopted by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC, those funds that become commodity pools solely because of their use of swaps must register with the National Futures Association ("NFA"). Registration requires compliance with the CFTC's regulations and the NFA's rules with respect to capital raising, disclosure, reporting, recordkeeping and other business conduct. However, the CFTC's Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary Oversight has issued a no-action letter saying, although it 14Table of Contentsbelieves that mortgage REITs are properly considered commodity pools, it would not recommend that the CFTC take enforcement action against the operator of a mortgage REIT who does not register as a CPO if, among other things, the mortgage REIT limits the initial margin and premiums required to establish its swaps, futures and other commodity interest positions to not more than five percent of its total assets, the mortgage REIT limits the net income derived annually from those commodity interest positions that are not qualifying hedging transactions to less than five percent of its gross income and interests in the mortgage REIT are not marketed to the public as or in a commodity pool or otherwise as or in a vehicle for trading in the commodity futures, commodity options or swaps markets.We use hedging instruments in conjunction with our investment portfolio and related borrowings to reduce or mitigate risks associated with changes in interest rates, mortgage spreads, yield curve shapes and market volatility. These hedging instruments include interest rate swaps, interest rate futures and options on interest rate futures. We do not currently engage in any speculative derivatives activities or other non-hedging transactions using swaps, futures or options on futures. We do not use these instruments for the purpose of trading in commodity interests, and we do not consider our company or our operations to be a commodity pool as to which CPO registration or compliance is required. We have submitted the required filing to claim the no-action relief afforded by the above-described no-action letter. Consequently, we will be restricted to operating within the parameters discussed in the no-action letter and will not enter into hedging transactions covered by the no-action letter if they would cause us to exceed the limits set forth in the no-action letter.The CFTC has substantial enforcement power with respect to violations of the laws over which it has jurisdiction, including its anti-fraud and anti-manipulation provisions. For example, the CFTC may suspend or revoke the registration of or the no-action relief afforded to a person who fails to comply with commodities laws and regulations, prohibit such a person from trading or doing business with registered entities, impose civil money penalties, require restitution and seek fines or imprisonment for criminal violations. Additionally, a private right of action exists against those who violate the laws over which the CFTC has jurisdiction or who willfully aid, abet, counsel, induce or procure a violation of those laws. In the event that we fail to comply with statutory requirements relating to derivatives or with the CFTC's rules thereunder, including the no-action letter described above, we may be subject to significant fines, penalties and other civil or governmental actions or proceedings, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are highly dependent on communications and information systems operated by third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems that allow us to monitor, value, buy, sell, finance and hedge our investments. These systems are primarily operated by third parties and, as a result, we have limited ability to ensure their continued operation. In the event of systems failure or interruption, we will have limited ability to affect the timing and success of systems restoration. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including Agency RMBS trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. CMOs may be subject to greater risks than whole-pool Agency RMBS. In March 2010, our board of directors amended our investment guidelines to allow us to invest in CMOs. CMOs are securitizations issued by a government agency or a government-sponsored entity that are collateralized by Agency RMBS that are divided into various tranches that have different characteristics (such as different maturities or different coupon payments), and, therefore, may carry greater risk than an investment in whole-pool Agency RMBS. For example, certain CMO tranches, such as interest-only securities, principal-only securities, support securities and securities purchased at a significant premium, are more sensitive to prepayment risks than other tranches or whole-pool Agency RMBS. In addition, the yield on floating interest rate tranches, and inverse floating rate tranches are sensitive to changes in the interest rate index used to calculate the coupon on such classes. If we were to invest in CMO tranches that were more sensitive to prepayment risks relative to other CMO tranches or whole-pool Agency RMBS, we may increase our portfolio-wide prepayment and interest rate risk. If we issue debt securities or equity securities that are senior to our stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, our operations may be restricted and we will be exposed to additional risk and the market price of our common stock could be adverse affected. If we decide to issue debt securities in the future, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. We have issued and outstanding an aggregate of 3,000,000 shares of our 7.75% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock and 8,000,000 shares of our 7.50% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. Other classes or series of our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to make a distribution to the holders of our common stock. We, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear 15Table of Contentsthe cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Holders of debt securities may be granted specific rights, including but not limited to, the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments, and rights to approve the sale of assets. Such additional restrictive covenants, operating restrictions and preferential dividends could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. A security breach or a cyber-attack could adversely affect our business.We rely on sophisticated information technology systems, networks and infrastructure in managing our day-to-day business and operations. Despite in-place cyber-security measures, our information technology systems, networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to deliberate attacks or unintentional events that could interrupt or interfere with their functionality or the confidentiality of our information. Our inability to effectively utilize our information technology systems, networks and infrastructure, and protect our information could adversely affect our business.Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may inhibit potential acquisition bids that you and other stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect and inhibit a change in our board of directors. These provisions include the following: There are ownership limits and restrictions on transferability and ownership in our charter. In order to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year after 2006, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), to include natural persons and certain entities) during the second half of any calendar year and our shares must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of twelve months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. To assist us in meeting these requirements, subject to some exceptions, our charter generally prohibits any stockholder from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of any class or series of our outstanding capital stock unless an exemption is granted by our board of directors in its sole discretion. For purposes of this calculation, warrants treated as held by a person will be deemed to have been exercised. However, warrants held by other unrelated persons will not be deemed to have been exercised. This ownership restriction may: •discourage a tender offer or other transactions or a change in the composition of our board of directors or control that might involve a premium price for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders; or•result in shares issued or transferred in violation of such restriction being automatically transferred to a trust for a charitable beneficiary and thereby resulting in a forfeiture of such shares.Our charter permits our board of directors to issue common or preferred stock with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our charter permits our board of directors to amend our charter, without approval of our stockholders, to increase the total number of authorized shares of stock or the number of shares of any class or series, and to cause the issuance of common or preferred stock, having preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption as determined by our board of directors. Thus, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of common or preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of our shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price of our shares. Our charter and bylaws contain other possible anti-takeover provisions. Our charter and bylaws contain other provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us or the removal of existing directors and, as a result, could prevent our stockholders from being paid a premium for their common stock over the then-prevailing market price. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, ( the “MGCL”), may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock, including: •“business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power 16Table of Contentsof our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and•“control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.We have elected to opt out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL, by resolution of our board of directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL, pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to repeal the foregoing opt-outs from the business combination provisions of the MGCL, and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests. Our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or•a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated.We have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and executive officers that obligate us to indemnify them to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. In addition, our charter authorizes our company to obligate itself to indemnify our present and former directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, to indemnify each present or former director or officer who has been successful in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, laws or regulations, or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations, that impact our business and Maryland corporations may be amended. In addition, the markets for MBS and derivatives, including swaps, have been the subject of intense scrutiny in recent years. We cannot predict when or if any new law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted or promulgated or will become effective. Additionally, revisions in these laws, regulations or administrative interpretations could cause us to change our investments. We could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, law, regulation or administrative interpretation, which could reduce the market price of our common stock. Tax Risks Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of our stock and would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We operate in a manner that is intended to cause us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, the federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Qualifying as a REIT requires us to meet various tests regarding the nature of our assets and our income, the ownership of our outstanding stock, and the amount of our distributions on an ongoing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Although we intend to operate so that we will qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will so qualify for any particular year. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any calendar year, we would be required to pay federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Further, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any resulting tax. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our 17Table of Contentsincome available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT was subject to relief under federal tax laws, we could not re-elect to qualify as a REIT until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify. Our ability to invest in and dispose of securities through forward settling transactions could be limited by our REIT status, and we could lose our REIT status as a result of these investments. We purchase a substantial portion of our Agency RMBS through contracts for forward settling transactions, including where the pool is TBAs. In certain instances, rather than take delivery of the Agency RMBS subject to a contract for a forward settling transaction, we will dispose of the contract for a forward settling transaction through a dollar roll transaction in which we agree to purchase similar securities in the future at a predetermined price or otherwise, which may result in the recognition of income or gains. We account for dollar roll transactions as purchases and sales. The law is unclear regarding whether contracts for forward settling transactions will be qualifying assets for the 75% asset test and whether income and gains from dispositions of contracts for forward settling transactions will be qualifying income for the 75% gross income test. Until such time as we seek and receive a favorable private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), or we are advised by counsel that contracts for forward settling transactions should be treated as qualifying assets for purposes of the 75% asset test, we will limit our net investment in contracts for forward settling transactions and any non-qualifying assets to no more than 25% of our assets at the end of any calendar quarter and will limit our investments in contracts for forward settling transactions with a single counterparty to no more than 5% of our total assets at the end of any calendar quarter. Further, until such time as we seek and receive a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS or we are advised by counsel that income and gains from the disposition of contracts for forward settling transactions should be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, we will limit our gains from dispositions of contracts for forward settling transactions and any non-qualifying income to no more than 25% of our gross income for each calendar year. Accordingly, our ability to purchase Agency RMBS through contracts for forward settling transactions and to dispose of contracts for forward settling transactions, through dollar roll transactions or otherwise, could be limited. Moreover, even if we are advised by counsel that contracts for forward settling transactions should be treated as qualifying assets or that income and gains from dispositions of contracts for forward settling transactions should be treated as qualifying income, it is possible that the IRS could successfully take the position that such assets are not qualifying assets and such income is not qualifying income. In that event, we could be subject to a penalty tax or we could fail to qualify as a REIT if (i) the value of our contracts for forward settling transactions, together with our non-qualifying assets for the 75% asset test, exceeded 25% of our gross assets at the end of any calendar quarter or if the value of our investments in contracts for forward settling transactions with a single counterparty exceeded 5% of our total assets at the end of any calendar quarter or (ii) our income and gains from the disposition of contracts for forward settling transactions, together with our non-qualifying income for the 75% gross income test, exceeded 25% of our gross income for any taxable year. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego attractive business or investment opportunities. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT qualification. To qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, an entity must distribute to its stockholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that a REIT satisfies the 90% distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income, it will be subject to federal corporate income tax on its undistributed income. In addition, a REIT will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which its distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: •85% of its REIT ordinary income for that year;•95% of its REIT capital gain net income for that year; and18Table of Contents•100% of its undistributed taxable income from prior years.We intend to continue to make distributions in the future to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both federal corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. However, there is no requirement that taxable REIT subsidiaries ("TRSs") distribute their after-tax net income to their parent REIT or their stockholders, and if we utilize a TRS, it may determine not to make any distributions to us. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on GAAP because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as phantom income. Although some types of phantom income are excluded in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid federal corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in that year. We may satisfy the 90% distribution test with taxable distributions of our stock or debt securities. The IRS has issued private letter rulings to other REITs treating certain distributions that are paid partly in cash and partly in stock as dividends that would satisfy the REIT annual distribution requirement and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for federal income tax purposes. Those rulings may be relied upon only by taxpayers to whom they were issued, but we could request a similar ruling from the IRS. In addition, the IRS issued a revenue procedure authorizing publicly traded REITs to make elective cash/stock dividends, but that revenue procedure has expired. Accordingly, it is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to make taxable dividends payable in cash and stock. Although we have no current intention of paying dividends in our own stock, if in the future we choose to pay dividends in our own stock, our stockholders may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash that they receive. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code limit our ability to hedge Agency RMBS and related borrowings. Under these provisions, we must limit our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees, and certain other non-qualifying sources to 5% or less of our annual gross income. As a result, we might in the future have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a domestic TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities, because a domestic TRS would be subject to tax on gains, or leave us exposed to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. Withholding tax may apply to our dividends after June 30, 2014 and proceeds of sales in respect of our stock after December 31, 2016. U.S. federal withholding tax at a 30% rate will apply to payments of dividends after June 30, 2014 and gross proceeds from sales of our stock after December 31, 2016 made to foreign financial institutions (and certain of their affiliates) unless the payee foreign financial institution agrees with the IRS, or, in some cases its home country government, among other things, to disclose the identity of certain U.S. persons and U.S-owned foreign entities with accounts at the institution (or the institution’s affiliates) and to annually report certain information about such accounts. The withholding tax also will apply to payments of dividends and gross proceeds of sales to certain foreign entities that do not disclose the name, address and taxpayer identification number of any substantial U.S-owners (or certify that they do not have any substantial United States owners). Thus, if a stockholder holds our shares through a foreign financial institution or foreign corporation or trust, dividends and gross proceeds of sales made after the applicable dates may be subject to a 30% withholding tax. Stockholders that are not United States persons may be subject to withholding tax on our dividends under current law. The taxation of corporate dividends may adversely affect the value of our stock. The maximum tax rate applicable to “qualified dividend income” payable to U.S. stockholders that are taxed at individual rates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates on qualified dividend income. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our stock.The failure of Agency RMBS subject to a repurchase agreement to qualify as real estate assets would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We have entered into sale and repurchase agreements under which we nominally sold certain of our Agency RMBS to a counterparty and simultaneously entered into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. We believe that we are treated for federal income tax purposes as the owner of the Agency RMBS that are the subject of any such agreement notwithstanding that 19Table of Contentssuch agreements may transfer record ownership of such assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could successfully assert that we did not own the Agency RMBS during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case we could fail to qualify as a REIT. We may lose our REIT qualification, or be subject to a penalty tax, if the IRS, successfully challenges our characterization of income from our investments in subordinated tranches of collateralized loan obligations ("CLOs") issued by foreign corporations. We likely will be required to include in our income, even without the receipt of actual distributions, earnings from our investment in the subordinated tranches of CLOs issued by foreign corporations. We intend to treat certain of these income inclusions as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test but not the 75% gross income test. The provisions that set forth what income is qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test provide that gross income derived from dividends, interest and certain other enumerated classes of passive income qualify for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Income inclusions from equity investments in foreign corporations are technically neither actual dividends nor any of the other enumerated categories of income specified in the 95% gross income test for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, the IRS has issued private letter rulings to other REITs holding that income inclusions from equity investments in foreign corporations would be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Private letter rulings may be relied upon only by the taxpayers to whom they are issued, and the IRS may revoke a private letter ruling. Based on those private letter rulings and advice of counsel, we intend to treat such income inclusions as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Nevertheless, because this income does not meet the literal requirements of the REIT provisions, it is possible that the IRS could successfully take the position that such income is not qualifying income. In the event that such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we would be subject to a penalty tax with respect to such income to the extent it and any other non-qualifying income exceeds 5% of our gross income or we could fail to qualify as a REIT. In addition, if such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we would need to invest in sufficient qualifying assets, or sell some of our interests in other foreign corporations, to ensure that the income recognized by us from our investment in the subordinated tranches of CLOs issued by foreign corporations does not exceed 5% of our gross income, or we would cease to qualify as a REIT. We currently expect that our future income inclusions from our investment in subordinated tranches of CLOs issued by foreign corporations together with any nonqualifying income will not exceed 5% of our gross income, however, no assurance can be given that this will not change. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted or promulgated or will become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. Additionally, revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause us to change our investments and commitments and affect the tax considerations of an investment in us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 