Item 1A. Risk Factors Investment in our common stock involves significant risks. If any of the risks discussed in this report occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risk factors set forth below are not the only risks that may affect us. Some statements in this report, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related To Our Business No assurance can be given that the actions taken by the U.S. Government for the purpose of seeking to stabilize the financial and credit markets and stimulate the economy will achieve their intended effect, or will benefit our business, and further government or market developments could adversely affect us. In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system, the financial and housing markets and the economy as a whole, the U.S. Government has implemented a number of initiatives intended to bolster the banking system, the financial and housing markets and the economy as a whole. These actions include: (i) the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or the EESA, which established the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, (ii) the voluntary Capital Purchase Program, or the CPP, which was implemented under authority provided in the EESA and gives the U.S. Treasury the authority to purchase up to $250 billion of senior preferred shares in qualifying U.S. controlled banks, saving associations, and certain bank and savings and loan holding companies engaged only in financial activities, (iii) a program to purchase $200 billion in direct obligations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks and $1.25 trillion in RMBS issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae, (iv) the creation of a new funding mechanism, the Financial Stability Trust, that will provide financial institutions with bridge financing until such institutions can raise capital in the capital markets, (v) the creation of a Public-Private Investment Fund for private investors to purchase mortgages and mortgage-related assets from financial institutions, (vi) the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility with the goal of increasing securitization activity for various consumer and commercial loans and other financial assets, including student loans, automobile loans and leases, credit card receivables, SBA small business loans and commercial mortgage-backed securities and (vii) the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or the ARRA, which includes a wide variety of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. No assurance can be given that these initiatives will have a beneficial impact on the banking system, financial market or housing market. To the extent the markets do not respond favorably to these initiatives or if these initiatives do not function as intended, the pricing, supply, liquidity and value of our assets and the availability of financing on attractive terms may be materially adversely affected. Increases in interest rates and adverse market conditions may negatively affect the value of our investments and increase the cost of our borrowings, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and reduced cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We invest indirectly in mortgage loans by purchasing Agency RMBS. Under a normal yield curve, an investment in Agency RMBS will decline in value if long term interest rates increase. In addition, net interest income could decrease under an inverted or flat yield curve. Despite Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees of the principal and interest payments related to the Agency RMBS we own, those guarantees do not protect us from declines in market value caused by changes in interest rates. Declines in the market value of our investments may ultimately result in losses to us, which may reduce earnings and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders. A significant risk associated with our investment in Agency RMBS is the risk that both long term and short term interest rates will increase significantly. If long term rates were to increase significantly, the market value of these Agency RMBS would decline and the duration and weighted average life of the investments would 10 Table of Contents increase. We could realize a loss if the securities were sold. At the same time, an increase in short term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on our repurchase agreements used to finance the purchase of Agency RMBS, which would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Market values of our investments may decline without any general increase in interest rates for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments for those investments that we have that are subject to prepayment risk, and widening of credit spreads. If the market values of our investments were to decline for any reason, the value of your investment could also decline. We leverage our portfolio investments in Agency RMBS, which may adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We leverage our portfolio investments in Agency RMBS through borrowings under repurchase agreements. Leverage can enhance our potential returns but can also exacerbate losses. The percentage of leverage will vary depending on our ability to obtain these financing facilities and the lender’s and rating agencies’ estimate of the stability of the portfolio investments’ cash flow. As of December 31, 2009, our portfolio was leveraged (as measured by total liabilities to net assets) approximately 6.6 to 1. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced if market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, our debt service payments will reduce cash flow available for distributions to stockholders. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations. To the extent that we cannot meet our debt service obligations, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy our debt obligations. Our lenders may require us to provide additional collateral, especially when the market values for our investments decline, which may restrict us from leveraging our assets as fully as desired, and reduce our liquidity, earnings and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We currently use repurchase agreements to finance our investments in Agency RMBS. Our repurchase agreements allow the lenders, to varying degrees, to determine a new market value of the collateral to reflect current market conditions. If the market value of the securities pledged or sold by us to a funding source decline in value, we may be required by the lender to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced on minimal notice, which is known as a margin call. Posting additional collateral will reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets, which could adversely affect our business. Additionally, in order to satisfy a margin call, we may be required to liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time, which could cause us to incur further losses and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and may impair our ability to maintain our current level of distributions to our stockholders. We receive margin calls from our repurchase agreement counterparties from time to time in the ordinary course of business similar to other entities in the specialty finance business. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $153.0 million in Agency RMBS, cash and cash equivalents available to satisfy future margin calls. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to satisfy these margin calls, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness, increase our borrowing rates, liquidate our collateral and terminate our ability to borrow. Such a situation would likely result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and possibly necessitate a filing for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Hedging against interest rate exposure may not completely insulate us from interest rate risk and may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distributions to our stockholders. Subject to compliance with the requirements to qualify as a REIT, we engage in certain hedging transactions to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates and therefore may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors and Eurodollar and 11 Table of Contents U.S. Treasury futures to seek to hedge the interest rate risk associated with our portfolio. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, we may establish other hedging positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the portfolio positions should increase. Moreover, it may not be possible to hedge against an interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. The success of our hedging transactions depends on our Manager’s ability to accurately predict movements of interest rates and credit spreads. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. We currently hedge against interest rate risk. Our hedging activity varies in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of portfolio investments held, and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the credit quality of the hedging counterparty may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the counterparty in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. Our interest rate hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our stockholders and negatively impact our stock price. The federal conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government, may adversely affect our business. The payments we receive on the Agency RMBS in which we invest depend upon a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities and are guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Ginnie Mae is part of a U.S. Government agency and its guarantees are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are U.S. Government-sponsored entities, or GSEs, but their guarantees are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Since 2007, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have reported substantial losses and a need for substantial amounts of additional capital. In response to the deteriorating financial condition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the recent credit market disruption, Congress and the U.S. Treasury undertook a series of actions to stabilize these GSEs and the financial markets, generally. The Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 was signed into law on July 30, 2008, and established the Federal Housing Finance Agency, or FHFA, with enhanced regulatory authority over, among other things, the business activities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the size of their portfolio holdings. On September 7, 2008, in response to the deterioration in the financial condition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the FHFA placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship, which is a 12 Table of Contents statutory process pursuant to which the FHFA will operate Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as conservator in an effort to stabilize the entities, and together with the U.S. Treasury and the U.S. Federal Reserve, has undertaken actions designed to boost investor confidence in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, support the availability of mortgage financing and protect taxpayers. Appointing FHFA as conservator of both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac allows the FHFA to control the actions of the two GSEs without forcing them to liquidate, which would be the case under receivership. In addition, the U.S. Treasury has taken steps to capitalize and provide financing to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and agreed to purchase direct obligations and Agency RMBS issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Shortly after Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed in federal conservatorship, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, in announcing the actions, noted that the guarantee structure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac required examination and that changes in the structures of the entities were necessary to reduce risk to the financial system. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be eliminated or considerably limited relative to historical measurements. Any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitutes Agency RMBS and could have broad adverse market implications as well as negatively impact us. The problems faced by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac resulting in their being placed into federal conservatorship have stirred debate among some federal policy makers regarding the continued role of the U.S. Government in providing liquidity for the residential mortgage market. For example, in late January 2010, the Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee announced that the House Financial Services Committee will be recommending abolishing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in their current form and establishing a new system of providing housing finance. Following expiration of the current authorization, each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be dissolved and the U.S. Government could decide to stop providing liquidity support of any kind to the mortgage market. If Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac were eliminated, or their structures were to change radically, we would not be able to acquire Agency RMBS from these companies, which would drastically reduce the amount and type of Agency RMBS available for investment, which are our only targeted investments. As of December 31, 2009, 98.1% of our investments had the principal and interest guaranteed by either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Our income could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold. For example, the current credit support provided by the U.S. Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rate we receive from Agency RMBS, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted investments and our cost of financing that portfolio. A reduction in the supply of Agency RMBS could also increase the prices of Agency RMBS we seek to acquire by reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. As indicated above, recent legislation has changed the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government and requires Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce the amount of mortgage loans they own or for which they provide guarantees on Agency RMBS. The effect of the actions taken by the U.S. Government remain uncertain. Furthermore, the scope and nature of the actions that the U.S. Government will ultimately undertake are unknown and will continue to evolve. Future legislation could further change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government, and could also nationalize or eliminate these GSEs entirely. Any law affecting these GSEs may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. As a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on investments in Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac Agency RMBS. It is also possible that such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and spreads at which they trade. All of the foregoing could materially adversely affect the pricing, supply, liquidity and value of our target assets and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the Agency RMBS in which we invest. During the second half of 2008, the U.S. Government, through the Federal Housing Authority, or FHA, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, commenced implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures. One such program is the Hope for Homeowners program, which is effective from October 1, 2008 through September 30, 2011 and will enable certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages into FHA-insured loans. The programs may involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans. In addition, in February 2009 the U.S. Treasury announced the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, or HASP, which is a multi-faceted plan intended to prevent residential mortgage foreclosures by, among other things: • allowing certain homeowners whose homes are encumbered by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac conforming mortgages to refinance those mortgages into lower interest rate mortgages with either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac; • creating the Homeowner Stability Initiative, which is intended to utilize various incentives for banks and mortgage servicers to modify residential mortgage loans with the goal of reducing monthly mortgage principal and interest payments for certain qualified homeowners; and • allowing judicial modifications of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac conforming residential mortgage loans during bankruptcy proceedings. It is likely that loan modifications would result in increased prepayments on some Agency RMBS. See“—Prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our Agency RMBS, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders,” for information relating to the impact of prepayments on our business. These loan modification programs, as well as future legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the Agency RMBS in which we invest. Prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our Agency RMBS, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In the case of residential mortgage loans, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ abilities to prepay their loans. Homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when applicable mortgage interest rates decline. Consequently, owners of the loans have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when mortgage interest rates remain steady or increase. Consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher prevailing interest rates. This volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our Agency RMBS portfolio and may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. The Hope for Homeowners program, which is effective from October 1, 2008 through September 30, 2011, and HASP, which was announced in February 2009, will enable certain distressed borrowers to refinance their mortgages, which could increase prepayments on the mortgages backing our Agency RMBS. Despite Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae guarantees of principal and interest related to the Agency RMBS we own, those guarantees do not protect investors against prepayment risks. 14 Table of Contents Our portfolio investments are recorded at fair value based on market quotations from brokers and dealers. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. All of our current portfolio investments, and some of our future portfolio investments, will be in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We currently value and will continue to value these investments monthly at fair value as determined in good faith by our Manager based on market quotations from brokers and dealers. Because such quotations and valuations are inherently uncertain, they may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a public market for these securities existed. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. The significant downturn in the residential mortgage markets beginning in 2007, and the weakness in the credit markets, have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, one or more of our lenders, which could result in a contraction of available repurchase agreement financing, increases in our borrowing costs, reductions in our liquidity and reductions in the value of the investments in our portfolio. The significant downturn in the residential mortgage market beginning in 2007 and, in turn, the RMBS market that we have experienced since August 2007, has led lenders, including the financial institutions that provide financing for our investments, to heighten their credit review standards and reduce the loan amounts available to borrowers, which has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, funding for our Agency RMBS portfolio if our counterparties are unwilling or unable to provide us with additional financing. This could potentially limit our ability to finance our investments and operations, increase our financing costs and reduce our liquidity. Furthermore, if one or more of our counterparties are unwilling or unable to provide us with ongoing financing on terms that are acceptable to us, we may need to sell our investments at a time when prices are depressed, and we may be unable to obtain additional financing. If this were to occur, it could prevent us from complying with the REIT qualification requirements and otherwise materially harm our results of operations and financial outlook. Dramatic declines in the housing market in the past few years have resulted in significant write downs of asset valuations by several major financial institutions. These write downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Institutions from which we seek to obtain repurchase agreement financing for our investments in Agency RMBS may have owned or financed residential mortgage loans, real estate-related securities and real estate loans which have declined in value and caused losses as a result of the significant downturn in the housing markets. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. If these conditions persist, these institutions may become insolvent. As a result of recent market events, it may be more difficult for us to secure financing as there are fewer institutional lenders and those remaining lenders have tightened their lending standards. For example, during the month of March 2008, lenders generally increased haircuts (the difference between the cash we receive from the counterparty when we initially sell the securities to the counterparty and the value of those securities) substantially on Agency RMBS. During March 2008, the haircuts on our repurchase agreements ranged from 3% to 6%. Since March 2008, lenders have generally increased haircuts on Agency RMBS. Since March 2008 and through most of 2009 the haircuts on our repurchase agreements have ranged from 5% to 10%. During the fourth quarter of 2009 haircuts have decreased to a range of 4% to 8%. A material increase in haircuts on these securities would negatively affect our liquidity and the results of operations. As was the case after Lehman Brothers Inc. filed for bankruptcy in September 2008, if one or more major market participants fails or withdraws from the market, it could negatively impact the marketability of all fixed income securities, including Agency RMBS, and this could reduce the value of the securities in our portfolio, thus reducing our net asset value. 15 Table of Contents An increase in our borrowing costs relative to the interest we receive on our assets may impair our profitability and thus our cash available for distributions to our stockholders. As our repurchase agreements and other short term borrowings mature, we must either enter into new borrowings or liquidate certain of our investments at times when we might not otherwise choose to do so. Lenders may seek to use a maturity date as an opportune time to demand additional terms or increased collateral requirements that could be adverse to us and harm our operations. An increase in short term interest rates when we seek new borrowings would reduce the spread between our returns on our assets and the cost of our borrowings. This would reduce the returns on our assets which might reduce earnings and in turn cash available for distributions to our stockholders. We generally expect that the interest rates tied to our borrowings will adjust more rapidly than the interest rates tied to the assets in which we invest. If the lending institution under one or more of our repurchase agreements defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the agreement term, we will lose money on our repurchase transactions. When we engage in a repurchase transaction, we will initially sell securities to the transaction counterparty under a master repurchase agreement in exchange for cash from the counterparty. The counterparty is obligated to resell the same securities back to us at the end of the term of the repurchase agreement, which typically is 30 to 90 days, but which may be up to one year. If the counterparty in a repurchase transaction defaults on its obligation to resell the securities back to us we will incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming no change in the value of the securities). Losses incurred on our repurchase transactions would adversely affect our earnings and our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If we default on our obligations under our repurchase agreements, we may be unable to establish a suitable replacement facility on acceptable terms or at all. If we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase agreement, the counterparty may terminate the agreement and cease entering into any other repurchase agreements with us. In that case, we would likely need to establish a replacement repurchase facility with another financial institution in order to continue to leverage our investment portfolio and carry out our investment strategy. We may be unable to establish a suitable replacement repurchase facility on acceptable terms or at all. Our repurchase agreements may give our lenders greater rights in the event that we file for bankruptcy. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay if we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets under a repurchase agreement in the event that a lender party to such an agreement files for bankruptcy. Thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to increased risk in the event we or any of our lenders files for bankruptcy. Failure to procure adequate funding and capital would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the value of our common stock and our ability to distribute dividends to our stockholders. We depend upon the availability of adequate funding and capital for our operations. To qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income annually, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, to our stockholders and therefore are not able to retain our earnings for new investments. We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. In the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding and capital on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, and you may lose part or all of your investment. 16 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make. We compete with other REITs, financial companies, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial finance companies. Additionally, we may also compete with the U.S. Federal Reserve to the extent they purchase Agency RMBS pursuant to their respective Agency RMBS purchase programs. See “—The federal conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the U.S. Government, may adversely affect our business.” Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Several other REITs have recently raised, or are expected to raise, significant amounts of capital, and may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, which may create competition for investment opportunities. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage future growth effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives will depend on our ability to grow, which will depend, in turn, on our Manager’s ability to identify and invest in securities that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis largely will be a function of our Manager’s structuring and implementation of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and our access to financing on acceptable terms. The senior management team of our Manager has substantial responsibilities under the management agreement. In order to grow, our Manager, or its sub-advisors, needs to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees successfully. However, we can offer no assurance that any of those employees will contribute to the work of our Manager. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may change our investment strategy and asset allocation without notice or stockholder consent, which may result in riskier investments. Our board of directors has the authority to change our investment strategy or asset allocation at any time without notice to or consent from our stockholders. In 2008, our board of directors amended our investment guidelines to require that we invest exclusively in Agency RMBS. To the extent that our investment strategy changes in the future, we may make investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described in this annual report on Form 10-K. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and real estate market fluctuations. Furthermore, a change in our asset allocation could result in our allocating assets in a different manner than as described in this annual report on Form 10-K. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or a clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. 17 Table of Contents Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction most likely will result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. In addition, we may not always be able to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to unexpected economic losses in the future. Swaps and certain options and other custom instruments are subject to the risk of non-performance by the swap or option counterparty, including risks relating to the creditworthiness of the counterparty. In addition, we also are subject to the risk of the failure of any of the exchanges or clearing houses on which we trade. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we may enter into swap agreements, including interest rate swaps. Swap agreements can be individually negotiated and structured to include exposure to a variety of different types of investments or market factors. Depending on their structure, swap agreements may increase or decrease exposure to long term or short term interest rates (in the United States or abroad), foreign currency values, mortgage securities, corporate borrowing rates, or other factors such as security prices, baskets of equity securities, or inflation rates. Swap agreements can take many different forms and are known by a variety of names. We are not precluded from any particular form of swap or option agreement if our Manager determines it is consistent with our investment objectives and policies. Swap agreements tend to shift investment exposure from one type of investment to another. Depending on how they are used, swap agreements may increase or decrease the overall volatility of our portfolio. The most significant factor in the performance of swap agreements is the change in the specific interest rate, currency, individual equity values or other factors that determine the amounts of payments due to and from us. If a swap agreement calls for payments or collateral transfers by us, we must be prepared to make such payments and transfers when due. Additionally, if a counterparty’s creditworthiness declines, the value of swap agreements with the counterparty can be expected to decline, potentially resulting in losses by us. The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and certain commodity exchanges have established limits referred to as speculative position limits or position limits on the maximum net long or net short position that any person or group of persons may hold or control in particular futures and options. Limits on trading in options contracts also have been established by the various options exchanges. It is possible that trading decisions may have to be modified and that positions held may have to be liquidated to avoid exceeding such limits. Such modification or liquidation, if required, could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances, such as the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by any event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the derivative contract. The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open derivative positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These potential payments will be contingent liabilities and therefore may not appear on our balance sheet. The economic losses will be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Our investments in subordinated tranches of CLOs may be subject to losses. We have invested a small portion of our total assets in lower-rated or non-rated deeply subordinated tranches of CLOs collateralized primarily by corporate leveraged loans and to a lesser extent by corporate debt securities. In general, losses on a loan or other asset included in a securitization will be borne first by equity support, a cash reserve fund or a letter of credit, if any, and then by the subordinated security holders. In the event of nonpayment on the loan or other asset and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest, we will not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchased. In addition, if the underlying asset portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy payments due on the related CLO, significant losses to us may result. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments. A projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of loans underlying the CLO to make required payments may be impaired. In such event, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities. CLOs in which we have invested may not be adequately managed or may not have a liquid market. If this were the case, we could lose a portion, or potentially all, of our investment in subordinated tranches of CLOs. Many CLO managers are relatively new to the securitization business and may not have the systems or processes in place to adequately manage such CLOs. Failure to adequately manage a CLO could result in, among other things, mistimed collateral sales and purchases, purchasing underperforming collateral, and inadequate cash flow processing, all of which could negatively affect the performance of the CLO. In addition, the market for these securities is relatively new and has been volatile for the last two years due to the continued adverse developments in the fixed income and credit markets, and we may have difficulty valuing them, financing them or finding a market should we decide to sell them. As a result, we could lose a portion, or potentially all, of our investment in subordinated tranches of CLOs, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and business. The assets collateralizing the CLOs in which we have invested will subject us to specific risks that could adversely affect our operating results and the value of our assets. The CLOs in which we have invested are collateralized primarily by corporate leveraged loans. These loans are term loans and revolving loans, pay interest at a fixed or floating rate, are senior or subordinated and secured or unsecured. These loans are illiquid. To the extent that they are non-investment grade, they may also bear risks associated with high-yield bonds. The CLOs in which we have invested may acquire interests in corporate leveraged loans either directly (by way of sale or assignment) or indirectly (by way of participation). The purchaser of an assignment typically succeeds to all the rights and obligations of the assigning institution and becomes a lender under the credit agreement with respect to the debt obligation; however, its rights can be more restricted than those of the assigning institution. Participation interests in a portion of the debt obligation typically result in a contractual relationship only with the institution participating out the interest, not with the borrower. In purchasing participations, the CLOs in which we have invested generally have no right to enforce compliance by the borrower with the terms of the credit agreement, or any rights of set-off against the borrower, and the CLOs in which we have invested do not directly benefit from the collateral supporting the debt obligation in which it has purchased the participation. As a result, the CLOs in which we invest will assume the credit risk of both the borrower and the institution selling the participation. Default rates on the corporate leveraged loans collateralizing the CLOs in which we have invested increased in 2008 and the respective CLO managers have been unable to seek adequate recourse, which has resulted in a decrease in the value of and income generated by our CLOs. We could experience increased defaults on the loans in our CLOs in the future. 19 Table of Contents Our investments in CLOs with over-collateralization requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flow. The terms of CLOs in which we have invested require that the principal amount of assets must exceed the principal balance of the related bonds by a certain amount, commonly referred to as “over-collateralization.” The CLO terms generally provide that, if certain delinquencies and/or losses exceed specified levels, which are established based on the analysis by the rating agencies (or any financial guaranty insurer) of the characteristics of the assets collateralizing the bonds, our ability to receive net income from the assets collateralizing the obligations may be impaired. We cannot assure you that the over-collateralization tests will be satisfied. We are highly dependent on communications and information systems operated by third parties, and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems that allow us to monitor, value, buy, sell, finance and hedge our investments. These systems are operated by third parties and, as a result, we have limited ability to ensure their continued operation. In the event of systems failure or interruption, we will have limited ability to affect the timing and success of systems restoration. Any failure or interruption of our systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, including Agency RMBS trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we issue debt securities, our operations may be restricted and we will be exposed to additional risk. If we decide to issue debt securities in the future, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. We, and indirectly our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Holders of debt securities may be granted specific rights, including but not limited to, the right to hold a perfected security interest in certain of our assets, the right to accelerate payments due under the indenture, rights to restrict dividend payments, and rights to approve the sale of assets. Such additional restrictive covenants and operating restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Risks Related To Our Management and Our Relationship with Our Manager, Cypress and Sharpridge We are dependent on our Manager and may not find a suitable replacement if our Manager terminates the management agreement. We have no employees. Our officers are employees of Sharpridge. We are completely reliant on our Manager, which has significant discretion as to the implementation of our operating policies and strategies. We are subject to the risk that our Manager will terminate the management agreement and that no suitable replacement will be found to manage us. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the experience of our Manager’s executive officers, whose continued service is not guaranteed. If our Manager terminates the management agreement, we may not be able to execute our business plan and may suffer losses, which could materially decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We are dependent on certain key personnel of Sharpridge and Cypress for our future success, and their continued service to us is not guaranteed. The senior management of our Manager evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes and monitors our investments. We depend on the diligence, skill, investment expertise and network of business contacts of the senior management of our Manager and its affiliates. For a description of the senior management team, see 20 Table of Contents Item 10 of this annual report on Form 10-K. Kevin E. Grant is the chief executive officer of our Manager and has extensive experience managing investment portfolios maximizing risk adjusted returns. We are reliant on Mr. Grant’s expertise and his ability to select a highly talented team of senior management professionals to evaluate, negotiate, structure, close and monitor our investments. The loss of Mr. Grant’s services or the services of any of the executive officers of our Manager could have a material adverse effect on our performance and our ability to effectively monitor our portfolio of assets, source investment opportunities, make investment decisions, or execute our strategy and achieve our investment objectives. We also depend, to a significant extent, on our Manager’s access to the investment professionals and principals of Sharpridge and Cypress and the information and deal flow generated by the Sharpridge and Cypress investment professionals in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities. We are also subject to the risk that Sharpridge and/or Cypress will terminate their respective sub-advisory agreements with our Manager and that no suitable replacements will be found to advise our Manager. We can offer no assurance that our Manager will remain our Manager or that we will continue to have access to Sharpridge’s or Cypress’ principals and investment professionals or their information and deal flow. Because our management agreement was negotiated between related parties and due to our relationship with our Manager, conflicts of interest exist that could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. We are subject to potential conflicts arising out of our relationship with our Manager and its affiliates. We are entirely dependent on our Manager for our day-to-day management and have no independent officers. Our chairman, chief executive officer and president, chief financial officer, chief operating officer and secretary also serve as officers of Sharpridge. In addition, certain of our other directors are affiliated with our Manager. As a result, our management agreement with our Manager was negotiated between related parties and its terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. Although our Manager and its affiliates are not permitted to raise, advise or sponsor a new REIT that invests in domestic MBS, a portfolio company of any private equity fund controlled by Cypress shall not be deemed to be an affiliate or an entity under common control with our Manager. As a result, any such entity could engage in a business directly in competition with us. If our Manager or its affiliates engages in additional management or investment opportunities that have overlapping objectives with us, our Manager or its affiliates may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities to these other managed entities or investments. As a result of our available liquidity, our investment policies, REIT requirements and other legal restrictions applicable to us and other relevant considerations, it is possible that we may not be given the opportunity to participate in certain investments made by existing or future entities affiliated with our Manager. Additionally, the ability of our Manager and its officers and employees to engage in other business activities may reduce the time our Manager spends managing us. In addition, we may compete, directly or indirectly, with other accounts or pools of capital affiliated or managed by Cypress and/or Sharpridge for access to Cypress and Sharpridge’s resources and investment opportunities, which may reduce investment opportunities available to us. Our investment focus is different from those of other entities that are or have been managed by Cypress or Sharpridge investment professionals. Even though our Manager is an affiliate of Cypress and Sharpridge, our investment focus is different from those of other entities that are or have been managed by Cypress or Sharpridge investment professionals. We can offer no assurance that our Manager will replicate the historical success of the Manager’s investment professionals in their previous endeavors, and we caution you that our investment returns could be substantially lower than the returns achieved by our Manager’s investment professionals’ previous endeavors. 21 Table of Contents Our board of directors does not approve each investment decision made by our Manager. Our directors periodically review our investment guidelines and our investment portfolio. However, our board of directors does not review all of our proposed investments. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, the directors may rely primarily on information provided to them by our Manager. Furthermore, transactions entered into or structured for us by our Manager may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by the directors. Our base management fee is payable regardless of our performance. Our Manager is entitled to receive a base management fee that is based on the amount of our net assets (as defined in the management agreement), regardless of the performance of our portfolio. Our Manager’s entitlement to substantial non-performance based compensation might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking profitable opportunities for our portfolio. This in turn could hurt our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and could negatively impact our stock price. Termination by us of the management agreement with our Manager without cause is difficult and costly. The initial term of the management agreement expired on December 31, 2008, and it has been automatically renewed each year for a one-year term currently that will expire on December 31, 2010. Going forward, the management agreement will be automatically renewed for a one-year term each anniversary date thereafter unless notice of non-renewal is given to us by our Manager. Our independent directors will review our Manager’s performance annually and the management agreement may be terminated upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our independent directors, or by a vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock, based upon: • unsatisfactory performance by our Manager that is materially detrimental to us or • a determination that the management fees payable to our Manager are not fair, subject to our Manager’s right to prevent such a termination by accepting a reduction of management fees agreed to by at least two-thirds of our independent directors and our Manager. We must provide 180 days prior notice of any such termination. Our Manager will be paid a termination fee equal to four times the sum of (a) the average annual base management fee earned by the Manager during the 24-month period prior to such termination and (b) the average annual incentive compensation earned (notwithstanding that the payment of any such incentive compensation may have been waived) by our Manager during the 24-month period immediately prior to such termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter prior to the date of termination. However, we and our Manager have agreed to terminate the management agreement upon the completion of an internalization transaction without payment of any termination fee to our Manager pursuant to the terms of the management agreement. The current termination fee may make it more difficult for us to terminate the management agreement. These provisions may increase the effective cost to us of terminating the management agreement, thereby adversely affecting our ability to terminate our Manager without cause. Our Manager’s liability is limited under the management agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our Manager against certain liabilities. Pursuant to the management agreement, our Manager does not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder and is not responsible for any action of our board of directors in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. Our Manager and its sub-advisors, members, officers and employees are not liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our directors, our stockholders or any subsidiary’s stockholders for acts performed in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement, except by reason of acts constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of their 22 Table of Contents duties under the management agreement. We have agreed to indemnify our Manager and its sub-advisors, members, officers, and employees and each person controlling our Manager with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts of such indemnified party (i) not constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of duties and (ii) performed in good faith in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Loss of our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act would negatively affect the value of shares of our common stock and our ability to distribute cash to our stockholders. We have operated and intend to continue to operate our business so as to be exempt from registration under the Investment Company Act because we are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Specifically, we invest and intend to continue to invest so that at least 55% of the assets that we own on an unconsolidated basis consist of qualifying mortgages and other liens and interests in real estate, which are collectively referred to as “qualifying real estate assets,” and so that at least 80% of the assets we own on an unconsolidated basis consist of real estate related assets (including our qualifying real estate assets). We treat Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae whole-pool residential mortgage pass-through securities issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgage loans in which we hold all of the certificates issued by the pool as qualifying real estate assets. Our Agency RMBS consist and will consist solely of such Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae whole-pool residential mortgage pass-through securities. If we fail to qualify for this exemption, we could be required to restructure our activities in a manner that, or at a time when, we would not otherwise choose to do so, which could negatively affect the value of shares of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. For example, if the market value of our investments in CLOs and structured notes, neither of which are qualifying real estate assets or real estate related assets, were to increase by an amount that resulted in less than 80% of our assets being invested in Agency RMBS, we might have to sell CLOs and structured notes in order to maintain our exemption from the Investment Company Act. The sale could occur during adverse market conditions, and we could be forced to accept a price below that which we believe is acceptable. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may inhibit potential acquisition bids that you and other stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect and inhibit a change in our board of directors. These provisions include the following: There are ownership limits and restrictions on transferability and ownership in our charter. In order to qualify as a REIT for each taxable year after 2006, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned, directly or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”) to include natural persons and certain entities) during the second half of any calendar year and our shares must be beneficially owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of twelve months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. To assist us in meeting these requirements, subject to some exceptions, our charter generally prohibits any stockholder from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of any class or series of our outstanding capital stock unless an exemption is granted by our board of directors in its sole discretion. For purposes of this calculation, warrants treated as held by a person will be deemed to have been exercised. However, warrants held by other unrelated persons will not be deemed to have been exercised. Our board of directors has granted a waiver from the 9.8% ownership limit to Talon Sharpridge LLC, Talon Sharpridge QP LLC, Talon Opportunity Partners, LP and Talon Asset Management LLC, or collectively, Talon. The waiver allows Talon to own up to the greater of 15% or 2,509,246 shares of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents This ownership restriction may: • discourage a tender offer or other transactions or a change in the composition of our board of directors or control that might involve a premium price for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders; or • result in shares issued or transferred in violation of such restriction being automatically transferred to a trust for a charitable beneficiary and thereby resulting in a forfeiture of such shares. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue common or preferred stock with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our charter permits our board of directors to amend our charter, without approval of our stockholders, to increase the total number of authorized shares of stock or the number of shares of any class or series, and to cause the issuance of common or preferred stock, having preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications, or terms or conditions of redemption as determined by our board. Thus, our board could authorize the issuance of common or preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of our shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price of our shares. Our charter and bylaws contain other possible anti-takeover provisions. Our charter and bylaws contain other provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us or the removal of existing directors and, as a result, could prevent our stockholders from being paid a premium for their common stock over the then-prevailing market price. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. We have elected to opt out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL, by resolution of our board of directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL, pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to repeal the foregoing opt-outs from the business combination provisions of the MGCL, and we may, by amendment to our bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. 24 Table of Contents Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests. Our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. We have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and executive officers that obligate us to indemnify them to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. In addition, our charter authorizes our company to obligate itself to indemnify our present and former directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, to indemnify each present or former director or officer who has been successful in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, laws or regulations, or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations, that impact our business and Maryland corporations may be amended. In addition, the markets for MBS and derivatives, including swaps, have been the subject of intense scrutiny in recent years. We cannot predict when or if any new law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted or promulgated or will become effective. Additionally, revisions in these laws, regulations or administrative interpretations could cause us to change our investments. We could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, law, regulation or administrative interpretation, which could reduce the market price of our common stock. Tax Risks Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject us to federal income tax, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of our common stock and would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We operate in a manner that is intended to cause us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, the federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Qualifying as a REIT requires us to meet various tests regarding the nature of our assets and our income, the ownership of our outstanding stock, and the amount of our distributions on an ongoing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Although we intend to operate so that we will qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will so qualify for any particular year. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any calendar year, we would be required to pay federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Further, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any resulting tax. Our 25 Table of Contents payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our income available for distribution to our stockholders. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT was subject to relief under federal tax laws, we could not re-elect to qualify as a REIT until the fifth calendar year following the year in which we failed to qualify. We may lose our REIT qualification or be subject to a penalty tax if the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, successfully challenges our characterization of income from our investments in subordinated tranches of CLOs and structured notes issued by foreign corporations. We likely will be required to include in our income, even without the receipt of actual distributions, earnings from our investment in the subordinated tranches of CLOs and structured notes issued by foreign corporations. We intend to treat certain of these income inclusions as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test but not the 75% gross income test. The provisions that set forth what income is qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test provide that gross income derived from dividends, interest and certain other enumerated classes of passive income qualify for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Income inclusions from equity investments in foreign corporations are technically neither actual dividends nor any of the other enumerated categories of income specified in the 95% gross income test for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and there is no other clear precedent with respect to the qualification of such income. However, based on advice of counsel, we intend to treat such income inclusions as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test. Nevertheless, because this income does not meet the literal requirements of the REIT provisions, it is possible that the IRS could successfully take the position that such income is not qualifying income. In the event that such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we would be subject to a penalty tax with respect to such income to the extent it and our other non-qualifying income exceeds 5% of our gross income or we could fail to qualify as a REIT. In addition, if such income was determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we would need to invest in sufficient qualifying assets, or sell some of our interests in other foreign corporations, to ensure that the income recognized by us from our investment in the subordinated tranches of CLOs and structured notes issued by foreign corporations does not exceed 5% of our gross income, or we would cease to qualify as a REIT. We currently intend that income inclusions from our investment in subordinated tranches of CLOs and structured notes issued by foreign corporations together with any non-qualifying income will not exceed 5% of our gross income; however, no assurance can be given that this will not change in the future. Our ability to invest in and dispose of “to be announced” securities could be limited by our REIT status, and we could lose our REIT status as a result of these investments. We have purchased, and may purchase in the future, Agency RMBS through “to-be-announced” forward contracts, or TBAs, or dollar roll transactions. In certain instances, rather than take delivery of the Agency RMBS subject to a TBA, we will dispose of the TBA through a dollar roll transaction in which we agree to purchase similar securities in the future at a predetermined price or otherwise, which may result in the recognition of income or gains. We account for dollar roll transactions as purchases and sales. The law is unclear regarding whether TBAs will be qualifying assets for the 75% asset test and whether income and gains from dispositions of TBAs will be qualifying income for the 75% gross income test. Until such time as we seek and receive a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS or we are advised by counsel that TBAs should be treated as qualifying assets for purposes of the 75% asset test, we will limit our investment in TBAs and any non-qualifying assets to no more than 25% of our assets at the end of any calendar quarter. Further, until such time as we seek and receive a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS or we are advised by counsel that income and gains from the disposition of TBAs should be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, we will limit our gains from dispositions of TBAs and any non-qualifying income to no more than 25% of our gross income for each calendar year. Accordingly, our ability to purchase Agency RMBS through TBAs and to dispose of TBAs, through dollar roll transactions or otherwise, could be limited. 26 Table of Contents Moreover, even if we are advised by counsel that TBAs should be treated as qualifying assets or that income and gains from dispositions of TBAs should be treated as qualifying income, it is possible that the IRS could successfully take the position that such assets are not qualifying assets and such income is not qualifying income. In that event, we could be subject to a penalty tax or we could fail to qualify as a REIT if (i) the value of our TBAs, together with our non-qualifying assets for the 75% asset test, exceeded 25% of our gross assets at the end of any calendar quarter or (ii) our income and gains from the disposition of TBAs, together with our non-qualifying income for the 75% gross income test, exceeded 25% of our gross income for any taxable year. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego attractive business or investment opportunities. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT qualification. To qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, an entity must distribute to its stockholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that a REIT satisfies the 90% distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income, it will be subject to federal corporate income tax on its undistributed income. In addition, a REIT will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which its distributions in any calendar year are less than the sum of: • 85% of its REIT ordinary income for that year; • 95% of its REIT capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% of its undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to continue to make distributions in the future to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both federal corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. However, there is no requirement that TRSs distribute their after-tax net income to their parent REIT or their stockholders, and if we utilize a TRS it may determine not to make any distributions to us. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on GAAP because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, referred to as phantom income. Although some types of phantom income are excluded in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax with respect to any phantom income items if we do not distribute those items on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt, or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid federal corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in that year. 27 Table of Contents If we make taxable distributions of our stock or debt securities, our stockholders may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash that they receive. We may satisfy the 90% distribution test with taxable distributions of our stock or debt securities. Pursuant to Revenue Procedure 2010-12 (“Revenue Procedure”), which was recently issued by the IRS, the IRS has indicated that it will treat distributions from certain publicly traded REITs that are paid part in cash and part in stock as dividends that would satisfy the REIT’s annual distribution requirements and qualify for the dividends paid deduction for federal income tax purposes. In order to qualify for such treatment, the Revenue Procedure requires that at least 10% of the total distribution be payable in cash and that each stockholder have a right to elect to receive its entire distribution in cash. If too many stockholders elect to receive cash, each stockholder electing to receive cash must receive a proportionate share of the cash to be distributed (although no stockholder electing to receive cash may receive less than 10% of such stockholder’s distribution in cash). This Revenue Procedure applies to distributions declared on or before December 31, 2012 with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2011. Although we have no current intention of paying dividends in our own stock, if in the future we choose to pay dividends in our own stock, our stockholders may be required to pay tax in excess of the cash that they receive. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code limit our ability to hedge Agency RMBS and related borrowings. Under these provisions, we must limit our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees, and certain other non-qualifying sources to 5% or less of our annual gross income. As a result, we might in the future have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a domestic TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities, because a domestic TRS would be subject to tax on gains, or leave us exposed to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. The taxation of corporate dividends may adversely affect the value of our stock. Legislation enacted in 2003 and 2006, among other things, generally reduces to 15% the maximum marginal rate of tax payable by taxpayers taxed at individual rates on dividends received from a regular C corporation until January 1, 2011. This reduced tax rate, however, will not apply to dividends paid by a REIT on its stock, except for certain limited amounts. While the earnings of a REIT that are distributed to its stockholders generally will still be subject to less federal income taxation than earnings of a non-REIT C corporation that are distributed to its stockholders net of corporate-level income tax, this legislation could cause taxpayers taxed at individual rates to view the stock of regular C corporations as more attractive relative to the stock of a REIT than was the case prior to the enactment of the legislation, because the dividends from regular C corporations will generally be taxed at a lower rate while dividends from REITs will generally be taxed at the same rate as the investor’s other ordinary income. We cannot predict what effect, if any, this legislation may have on the value of the stock of REITs in general or on the value of our common stock in particular, either in terms of price or relative to other investments. The failure of Agency RMBS subject to a repurchase agreement to qualify as real estate assets would adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We have entered into sale and repurchase agreements under which we nominally sold certain of our Agency RMBS to a counterparty and simultaneously entered into an agreement to repurchase the sold assets. We believe that we are treated for federal income tax purposes as the owner of the Agency RMBS that are the subject of any such agreement notwithstanding that such agreements may transfer record ownership of such assets to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could successfully assert that we did not own the Agency RMBS during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case we could fail to qualify as a REIT. 28 Table of Contents If the CLO and structured note issuers in which we have invested are subject to federal income tax at the entity level, it would greatly reduce the amounts those entities would have available to pay their creditors and to distribute to us. We have invested in subordinated tranches of CLOs and structured notes, which are treated as equity for federal income tax purposes. The CLO and structured note issuers in which we have invested will be treated as corporations for federal income tax purposes. The CLO and structured note issuers are organized in foreign countries. There is a specific exemption from federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities (or any activity closely related thereto) for their own account whether such trading (or such other activity) is conducted by the corporation or its employees or through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian or other agent. We expect that the CLO and structured note issuers in which we have invested will rely on that exemption or otherwise operate in a manner so that they will not be subject to federal income tax on their net income at the entity level. If the IRS were to succeed in challenging that tax treatment, it could greatly reduce the amount that those CLO and structured note issuers would have available to pay to their creditors and to distribute to us. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. For example, recently proposed legislation would impose U.S. withholding tax at a 30% rate on dividends and proceeds of sale in respect of our common stock received by a non-U.S. stockholder if certain disclosure requirements related to U.S. ownership are not satisfied. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted or promulgated or will become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. Additionally, revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could cause us to change our investments and commitments and affect the tax considerations of an investment in us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 