ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Described below are certain risks that our management believes are applicable to our business and the industry in which we operate. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the events described below occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or access to the capital markets could be materially adversely affected. The following risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and from results predicted by forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf related to conditions or events we anticipate may occur in the future. All forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are qualified by the risks below. Our business is dependent on the general economic conditions in our markets. In general, our sales depend on discretionary spending by our customers. General economic factors and other conditions that may affect our business, include periods of slow economic growth or recession, volatility and/or lack of liquidity from time to time in U.S. and world financial markets and the consequent reduced availability and/or higher cost of borrowing to hhgregg and its customers, slower rates of growth in real disposable personal income, sustained high rates of unemployment, high consumer debt levels, increasing fuel and energy costs, inflation or deflation of commodity prices, natural disasters, acts of terrorism and developments in the war against terrorism. General economic conditions and discretionary spending are beyond our control and are affected by, among other things: • consumer confidence in the economy; • unemployment trends; • consumer debt levels; • consumer credit availability; • the housing and home improvement markets; • gasoline and fuel prices; • interest rates and inflation; • slower rates of growth in real disposable personal income; • natural disasters; • national and international security concerns; • tax rates and tax policy; and • other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Increasing volatility in financial markets may cause some of the above factors to change with an even greater degree of frequency and magnitude. The above factors could result in slowdown in the economy or an uncertain economic outlook, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Other conditions that may impact our results of operations include disruptions in the availability of content such as sporting events or other televised content. Such disruptions may influence the demand for hardware that our customers purchase to access such content, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have many competitors, direct and indirect. If we fail to execute our merchandising, marketing and distribution strategies effectively, those competitors could take sales and market share from us. The retail market for consumer electronics and major home appliances is intensely competitive. We currently compete against a diverse group of national retailers, including Best Buy, Home Depot, Lowe’s, Sears, 13 Table of Contents Wal-Mart, internet retailers, regional or independent specialty retail stores and mass merchandisers that sell many of the same or similar consumer electronics and major home appliances that we do. There are few barriers to entry and as a result new competitors may enter our existing or new markets at any time. We may not be able to compete successfully against existing and future competitors. Some of our competitors have financial resources that are substantially greater than ours and may be able to purchase inventory at lower prices. Our competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and may have greater resources to devote to discounts, promotions and sales of products and services. They may also have financial resources that enable them to weather economic downturns better than us. As it relates to internet retailers, we will need to ensure we have an effective multi-channel strategy. Our existing competitors or new entrants into our industry may use a number of different strategies to compete against us, including: • lower pricing; • more aggressive advertising and marketing; • enhanced product and service offerings; • extension of credit to customers on terms more favorable than we make available; • innovative store formats; • improved retail sales methods; • online product offerings; • not charging sales tax at the time of sale on internet purchases; and • expansion into markets where we currently operate. Competition could cause us to lose market share, net sales and customers, which could negatively impact our comparable store sales, increase expenditures or reduce prices or margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our ability to maintain and increase both net sales and product margins depends to a large extent on the periodic introduction and availability of new products and technologies. We believe that the introduction and continued growth in consumer acceptance of new products will have a significant impact on our ability to increase net sales and maintain product margins. Our products are subject to significant technological changes, and we are dependent on our suppliers to continually invest in research and development to ensure we have new products and technologies in our stores. Innovative, heavily-featured products are typically introduced at relatively high price points. In response to continuing pressure from consumers and our competitors, price points may be reduced more quickly and to a greater degree, as compared to our prior practice in order to drive consumption. As a result, unit sales must increase at a greater rate than average selling prices decline in order to maintain or grow comparable store sales. If new product introductions do not drive enough sales volume at higher price points, prices will have to be reduced in order to sell existing inventory, which may negatively impact our ability to maintain our historical comparable store sales levels. If there were no new technologies or features in our products, we would see a material adverse impact to our revenues and product margins. A disruption in our relationships with, or in the operations of, any of our key suppliers could cause our net sales and profitability to decline. The success of our business and our growth strategy depends to a significant degree on our relationships with our suppliers. Our largest suppliers include Frigidaire, GE, Hewlett Packard, LG, Panasonic, Samsung, 14 Table of Contents Sharp, Sony, Toshiba and Whirlpool. We do not have long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with our major suppliers. We typically order our inventory through the issuance of individual purchase orders to vendors. We have no contractual assurance of the continued supply of merchandise in the amount and assortment we currently offer our customers and we may be subject to rationing by suppliers. In addition, we rely heavily on a relatively small number of suppliers. Our top 10 and 20 suppliers represented 77.2% and 89.9%, respectively, of our purchases in fiscal 2012. The loss of any one or more of our key suppliers or our failure to establish and maintain relationships with these and other suppliers could materially adversely affect our supply and assortment of products, as we may not be able to find suitable replacements to supply products at competitive prices. Our suppliers also supply us with marketing funds and volume rebates. If our suppliers fail to continue these incentives, it could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. The ongoing global crisis may also adversely affect our suppliers’ access to capital and liquidity with which to maintain their inventory, production levels and product quality and to operate their businesses, all of which could adversely affect our supply chain. It may cause suppliers to reduce their offerings of customer incentives and vendor allowances, cooperative marketing expenditures and product promotions. It may also cause them to change their pricing policies, which could impact demand for their products. The ongoing crisis and market instability make it difficult for us and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could cause us to carry too much or too little merchandise in various product categories. Disruptions in our supply chain and other factors affecting the distribution of our merchandise could adversely impact our business. Any disruption in the operation of our distribution centers could result in our inability to meet our customers’ delivery requirements, higher costs, inability to stock our stores, or longer lead time associated with distributing merchandise. Any such disruption within our supply chain network, including damage or destruction to one of our five regional distribution centers, could result in decreased net sales, increased costs and reduced profits. If we fail to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, our net sales and profitability may decline. Our products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. Our ability to maintain and increase net sales depends to a large extent on the periodic introduction and availability of new products and technologies. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to trends in consumer preferences relating to major household appliances and consumer electronics such as high efficiency appliances and high definition televisions. These products are subject to significant technological changes and pricing limitations and are subject to the actions and cooperation of third parties, such as movie distributors and television and radio broadcasters, all of which could affect the success of these and other new consumer electronics technologies. It is possible that new products will never achieve widespread consumer acceptance. Our margins are enhanced due to our ability to sell more feature-rich products with higher margins early in the product life cycle, thus a lack of new products in the market would impair our ability to maintain gross margins as a percentage of sales. Significant deviations from the anticipated consumer preferences for the products we sell could result in lost sales and lower margins due to the need to mark down excess inventory. If we are unable to effectively introduce and sell new products to our customers, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to open and profitably operate new stores in existing and new geographic markets. If we fail to successfully manage the challenges our planned growth poses, fail to maintain our financial and internal controls and systems or encounter unexpected difficulties during our expansion, our net sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. New stores that we open may not be profitable or may take longer than anticipated to open or to reach desired levels of profitability. Furthermore, the addition of new stores in existing markets may adversely affect 15 Table of Contents the performance of nearby stores. Collectively, these circumstances could lower our profit, operating income and profit margins. There are a number of factors that could affect our ability to open or acquire, as well as operate new stores at profitable levels consistent with our existing stores, including: • the inability to identify and acquire suitable store sites and to negotiate acceptable leases for these sites; • competition in existing, adjacent and new markets; • the failure to open enough stores in new markets to achieve a sufficient market presence to compete successfully; • the unfamiliarity with local real estate markets and demographics in adjacent and new markets; • difficulties associated with the hiring, training and retention of additional sales personnel and store managers; • the inability to obtain government approvals, licenses and permits in a timely manner; • the failure to adequately supervise construction and manage development costs; • the inability to secure adequate landlord financing; • difficulties or delay in obtaining construction materials and labor; and • problems or delays in pre-opening store promotion and related publicity. In addition, our growth plans will require management to expend significant time, effort and resources to ensure the continuing adequacy of our financial and other internal controls, operating procedures, information systems, product purchasing, inventory management, warehousing and distribution systems and employee training programs. We may not be able to effectively manage these increased demands or respond on a timely basis to the changing demands that our planned expansion will impose on our management, financial and other internal controls and information systems. If we fail to successfully manage the challenges our planned growth poses, fail to improve these systems and controls or encounter unexpected difficulties during our expansion, our net sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Lack of available retail store sites on terms acceptable to us, rising real estate prices and other costs and risks relating to new store openings could severely limit our growth opportunities. Our strategy includes opening stores in new and existing markets. We must successfully choose store sites, execute favorable real estate transactions on terms that are acceptable to us, hire competent personnel and effectively open and operate these new stores. Our plans to increase our number of retail stores will depend in part on the availability of existing retail stores or store sites. A lack of available financing on terms acceptable to real estate developers or a tightening credit market may adversely affect the number or quality of retail sites available to us. We cannot assure you that stores or sites will be available to us, or that they will be available on terms acceptable to us. If additional retail store sites are unavailable on acceptable terms, we may not be able to carry out a significant part of our growth strategy. Rising real estate costs and acquisition, construction and development costs could also inhibit our ability to grow. If we fail to locate desirable sites, obtain lease rights to these sites on terms acceptable to us, hire adequate personnel and open and effectively operate these new stores, our financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition, our expansion in new and existing markets may present competitive, distribution, merchandising and regulatory challenges that differ from our current challenges, including competition among our stores, diminished novelty of our store design and concept, added strain on our distribution centers, additional information to be processed by our management information systems and diversion of management attention from operations, such as the control of inventory levels in our stores. We also cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain and distribute adequate product supplies to our stores or maintain adequate warehousing and distribution capability at acceptable costs. New stores also may have lower than anticipated sales volumes relative to previously opened stores during their comparable years of operation, and sales volumes at new stores may not be sufficient to achieve store-level profitability or profitability comparable to that of existing stores. New stores in new markets, where we are less familiar with the target customer and less well-known, may face different or additional risks and increased costs compared to stores operated in existing 16 Table of Contents markets or new stores in existing markets. For example, expansion into new markets could bring us into direct competition with retailers with whom we have no past experience as direct competitors. We also may not be able to advertise cost-effectively in new or smaller markets in which we have less store density, which could slow sales growth at such stores. To the extent that we are not able to meet these various challenges, our sales could decrease, our operating costs could increase and our profitability could be impacted. If we fail to hire, train and retain qualified managers, sales associates and other employees we could lose sales to our competitors. A key element of our competitive strategy is to provide product expertise to our customers through our extensively trained, commissioned sales associates which, we believe, results in more of our customers purchasing higher-margin, feature-rich products. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel as needed in the future, including qualified sales personnel and candidates for our MIT program, our level of customer service may decline, which may decrease our net sales and profitability. Our ability to control labor costs, which may impact our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates, the impact of legislation or regulations governing healthcare benefits or labor relations, such as the Employee Free Choice Act, and health and other insurance costs. Additionally, the National Labor Relations Board could significantly impact the nature of labor relations in the U.S. and how union elections and contract negotiations are conducted. If our labor and/or benefit costs increase, we may not be able to hire or maintain qualified personnel to the extent necessary to execute our competitive strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If we do not maintain the security of customer, associate, or company information, we could damage our reputation, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. Any significant compromise or breach of customer, associate or company data security could significantly damage our reputation and result in additional costs, lost sales, fines and lawsuits. The regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. There is no guarantee that the procedures that we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches. If any such compromise or breach were to occur, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Regulatory developments in the United States could impact our private-label credit card financing offers and have a material adverse impact on our net sales and profitability. We offer private-label credit cards through a third-party financial institution that manages and directly extends credit to our customers. Cardholders who choose the private-label card can receive low- or no-interest promotional financing on qualifying purchases. If a customer utilizes a deferred interest financing offer and fails to comply with the terms of the offer, all deferred interest becomes due and payable to the third-party financial institution. Private label credit card sales accounted for 31%, 29% and 29% of our net sales in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Recently enacted legislative and regulatory changes that focus on a variety of credit related matters have had no material adverse impact on our operations to date. However, if future legislative or regulatory restrictions or prohibitions arise that affect our ability to offer promotional financing and we are unable to adjust our operations in a timely manner, our revenue and profitability may be materially adversely affected. If our third-party delivery services are unable to meet our promised delivery schedule, our net sales may decline due to a decline in customer satisfaction. We offer next-day delivery on many of the products we sell. Our deliveries are outsourced to third-party delivery services. Our third-party delivery services are subject to risks that are beyond our control. If our 17 Table of Contents products are not delivered to our customers on time, our customers may cancel their orders or we may lose business from these customers in the future. As a result, our net sales and profitability may decline. Because our hhgregg stores are generally concentrated in the eastern half of the United States, we are subject to regional risks. During fiscal 2012, we operated stores in Alabama, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia. We therefore have exposure to these local economies as well as weather conditions and natural disasters occurring in these markets. If these markets individually or collectively suffer an economic downturn or other adverse event, there could be an adverse impact on our comparable store sales, net sales and profitability and our ability to implement our planned expansion program. Several of our larger competitors operate stores nationwide and thus are not as vulnerable as we are to these risks. In addition, our net sales depend on discretionary consumer spending, which may decrease on a regional basis due to a number of factors beyond our control, including unfavorable economic conditions, increases in consumer debt levels, unemployment or inflation, or other factors that adversely affect consumer confidence. Any failure of our information technology infrastructure or management information systems, could cause a disruption in our business and our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. Our ability to operate our business from day to day largely depends on the efficient operation of our information technology infrastructure and management information systems. We use our management information systems to conduct our operations and for critical corporate and business planning functions, including store operations, sales management, merchandising, marketing, supply chain and inventory management, financial reporting and accounting, delivery and other customer services and various administrative functions. Any failure that is not covered by our disaster recovery plan could cause an interruption in our operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to certain statutory, regulatory and legal developments which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our statutory, regulatory and legal environment exposes us to complex compliance and litigation risks that could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results. The most significant compliance and litigation risks we face are: • The difficulty of complying with sometimes conflicting statutes and regulations in local, state and national jurisdictions; • The impact of proposed, new or changing statues and regulations, including, but not limited to, financial reform, environmental, labor reform, health care reform, corporate governance matters and/or other as yet unknown legislation that could affect how we operate and execute our strategies as well as alter our expense structure; • The impact of changes in tax laws (or interpretations thereof by courts and taxing authorities) and accounting standards; • The impact of litigation trends, including class action lawsuits involving consumers and stockholders, and labor and employment matters; and • Changes in trade regulations, currency fluctuations, economic or political instability, natural disasters, public health emergencies and other factors beyond our control may increase the cost of items we purchase or create shortages of these items, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods, or may force us to increase prices, thereby adversely impacting net sales and profitability. 18 Table of Contents Adapting to regulatory changes and defending against lawsuits and other proceedings may involve significant expense and divert management’s attention and resources from other matters which could adversely affect our results of operations. We have significant future capital needs that we may be unable to fund and this failure could curtail our projected growth. Our expansion plans will require substantial capital, including funds for capital expenditures, pre-opening costs, working capital requirements and initial operating losses related to new store openings. We also require additional capital for remodeling and renovating our existing stores and continuous management information systems updates. Net capital expenditures during fiscal 2012 were $81.4 million. If the cash provided by operating activities, available borrowings under our revolving credit facility and proceeds from sale and leaseback transactions are not sufficient to fund our operations, store expansion and renovation activities and infrastructure and information technology investment, we may be required to seek additional capital. If we are not able to obtain such additional financing on favorable terms, we may need to curtail our expansion plans and defer some or all of the upgrade of our management information systems. Our quarterly results fluctuate due to seasonal demand for our products and if we miscalculate this demand our net sales and profitability could decline. We experience seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and operating results due in part to seasonal shopping patterns. For example, in fiscal 2012 and 2011, we generated 33.2% and 30.0%, respectively, of our net sales in the fiscal quarter ended December 31, which includes the holiday selling season. We also incur significant additional costs and expenses during this fiscal quarter due to increased staffing levels and higher purchase volumes. If we miscalculate the demand for our products generally or for our product mix during the fiscal quarter ending December 31, our net sales could decline, resulting in excess inventory, which could tie up our working capital and revolving credit facility, as well as lower our profit margin as a result of product markdowns. A shortfall in expected net sales, combined with significant additional expenses during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, could cause a significant decline in our operating results. If we are unable to retain key management, we could have difficulty implementing our business strategy, which may result in reduced net sales, operating margins and profitability. We are dependent on the skills, experience and continued service of our senior management. We have employment agreements with these key officers which include secrecy, non-competition and other customary provisions. If members of senior management cease to be active in the management of our business or decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, our business and operations could be harmed, and we could have difficulty in implementing our strategy, which may result in reduced net sales, operating margins and profitability. Our executive officers, directors and stockholders affiliated with our directors own a large percentage of our voting common stock and could limit the influence of our other stockholders on corporate decisions. Our executive officers, directors, current holders of more than 5% of our outstanding common stock and their respective affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 50.0% of our outstanding common stock. Should some of these stockholders act together, they would be able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including mergers, sales of assets, the election of directors or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with our corporate interests or the interests of our other stockholders, and they may act in a manner with which our other stockholders may not agree or that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. 19 Table of Contents We may be subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings. These proceedings may be affected by changes in laws and government regulations or changes in the enforcement thereof. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome of some of these proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from taking action which, in either case, could adversely affect our operations or reduce our net income. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management’s attention and resources from other matters. We have anti-takeover defense provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may deter potential acquirers and depress the price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. These provisions: • authorize our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock and determine the powers, preferences and privileges of those shares without prior stockholder approval; • limit the calling of special meetings of stockholders; and • impose a requirement that an affirmative vote of the holders of 66 2/3% of the outstanding shares of common stock is required to amend certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Under these various provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, a takeover attempt or third-party acquisition of us, including a takeover attempt that may result in a premium over the market price for shares of our common stock, could be delayed, deterred or prevented. In addition, these provisions may prevent the market price of our common stock from increasing in response to actual or rumored takeover attempts and may also prevent changes in our management. As a result, these anti-takeover and change of control provisions may limit the price investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 