ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the information included in or incorporated by reference in this report, before deciding whether an investment in our common stock is suitable for you. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In such an event, the trading prices of our common stock could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. The following is a list of our risk factors. FINANCIAL/ACCOUNTING RISKS We incurred additional debt to finance the Florida Rock merger which significantly increased our interest expense, financial leverage and debt service requirements — We incurred considerable short-term and long-term debt to finance the Florida Rock merger. This debt, which significantly increased our leverage, has been a significant factor resulting in downgrades in our credit ratings. Our cash flow is reduced by payments of principal and interest on this debt. Our debt instruments contain various financial and contractual restrictions. If we fail to comply with any of these covenants, the related indebtedness (and other unrelated indebtedness) could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity. An event of default under our debt instruments Part I 14 Table of Contents also could significantly affect our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. Our debt ratings are currently under review for possible downgrade. If one or both rating agencies downgrade our ratings, it could further affect our ability to access financing. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors some of which are beyond our control. Difficult and volatile conditions in the credit markets could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows — The current economic environment has negatively affected the U.S. economy and demand for our products. Commercial and residential construction may continue to decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance construction projects or if the economic slowdown continues to cause delays or cancellations of capital projects. A slow economic recovery also may increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on our accounts receivable from our customers. We have experienced payment delays from some of our customers during this economic downturn. The credit environment could limit our ability to obtain additional financing or refinancing and, if available, it may not be at economically favorable terms. Interest rates on new issuances of long-term public debt in the market may increase due to higher credit spreads and risk premiums. There is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at favorable interest rates, which could negatively affect our financial results. We may need to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or refinance our outstanding debt. We also are exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, especially in regard to access to debt and equity capital. Our industry is capital intensive, resulting in significant fixed and semi-fixed costs. Therefore, our earnings are highly sensitive to changes in volume — Due to the high levels of fixed capital required for extracting and producing construction aggregates, both our dollar profits and our percentage of net sales (margin) can be negatively affected by decreases in volume. We use estimates in accounting for a number of significant items. Changes in our estimates could affect our future financial results — As discussed more fully in “Critical Accounting Policies” under Item 6 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” we use significant judgment in accounting for § goodwill and goodwill impairment § impairment of long-lived assets excluding goodwill § reclamation costs § pension and other postretirement benefits § environmental compliance § claims and litigation including self-insurance § income taxes We believe we have sufficient experience and reasonable procedures to enable us to make appropriate assumptions and formulate reasonable estimates; however, these assumptions and estimates could change significantly in the future and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. ECONOMIC/POLITICAL RISKS Both commercial and residential construction are dependent upon the overall U.S. economy which has been recovering at a slow pace — Commercial and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles. When the economy is strong, construction levels rise and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. The overall U.S. economy has been adversely affected by this recession. Although most economists believe that the U.S. economy is now in recovery, the pace of recovery has been very slow. Since construction activity generally lags the recovery after down cycles, construction projects have not returned to their pre-recession levels. Above average number of foreclosures, low housing starts and general weakness in the housing market continue to negatively affect demand for our products — In most of our markets, particularly Florida and California, sales volumes have been negatively impacted by foreclosures and a significant decline in residential construction. Our sales volumes and earnings Part I 15 Table of Contents could continue to be depressed and negatively impacted by this segment of the market until the recovery in residential construction improves. Lack of a multi-year federal highway bill and changes to the funding mechanism for highway funding could cause states to spend less on roads — The last multi-year federal transportation bill, known as SAFETEA-LU, expired on September 30, 2009. Since that time, funding for transportation projects, including highways, has been provided pursuant to a series of continuing resolutions and the HIRE Act. The current continuing resolution is set to expire on March 4, 2011. Additionally, in January 2011, the House passed a new rules package that repealed transportation law dating back to 1998, which protected annual funding levels from amendments that could reduce such funding. This rule change subjects funding for highways to yearly appropriation reviews. Both the lack of a multi-year bill and the change in the funding mechanism increases the uncertainty of many state departments of transportation regarding funds for highway projects. This uncertainty could result in states being reluctant to undertake large multi-year highway projects which could, in turn, negatively affect our sales. Changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, environmental and other areas of the law impact our business — Our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations related to zoning, land use and environmental matters. Despite our compliance efforts, we have an inherent risk of liability in the operation of our business, especially from an environmental standpoint. These potential liabilities could have an adverse impact on our operations and profitability. In addition, our operations require numerous governmental approvals and permits, which often require us to make significant capital and maintenance expenditures to comply with zoning and environmental laws and regulations. Stricter laws and regulations, or more stringent interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, reduce operating hours, require additional investment by us in pollution control equipment, or impede our opening new or expanding existing plants or facilities. Climate change and climate change legislation or regulations may adversely impact our business — A number of governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory change in response to the potential impacts of climate change. Such legislation or regulation, if enacted, potentially could include provisions for a “cap and trade” system of allowances and credits, among other provisions. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) promulgated a mandatory reporting rule covering greenhouse gas emissions from sources considered to be large emitters. The EPA has also promulgated a greenhouse gas emissions permitting rule, referred to as the “Tailoring Rule” which requires permitting of large emitters of greenhouse gases under the Federal Clean Air Act. We have determined that our Newbery cement plant is subject to both the reporting rule and the permitting rule, although the impacts of the permitting rule are uncertain at this time. The first required greenhouse gas emissions report for the Newberry cement plant will be submitted to the Federal EPA by March 31, 2011. Other potential impacts of climate change include physical impacts such as disruption in production and product distribution due to impacts from major storm events, shifts in regional weather patterns and intensities, and potential impacts from sea level changes. There is also a potential for climate change legislation and regulation to adversely impact the cost of purchased energy and electricity. The impacts of climate change on our operations and the company overall are highly uncertain and difficult to estimate. However, climate change and legislation and regulation concerning greenhouse gases could have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations or cash flows. GROWTH AND COMPETITIVE RISKS Within our local markets, we operate in a highly competitive industry — The construction aggregates industry is highly fragmented with a large number of independent local producers in a number of our markets. Additionally, in most markets, we also compete against large private and public companies, some of which are more vertically integrated than we are. Therefore, there is intense competition in a number of markets in which we operate. This significant competition could lead to lower prices, lower sales volumes and higher costs in some markets, negatively affecting our earnings and cash flows. In certain markets, vertically integrated competitors have acquired a portion of our asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete customers and this trend may continue to accelerate. Our long-term success depends upon securing and permitting aggregates reserves in strategically located areas — Construction aggregates are bulky and heavy and, therefore, difficult to transport efficiently. Because of the nature of the products, the freight costs can quickly surpass the production costs. Therefore, except for geographic regions that do not possess commercially viable deposits of aggregates and are served by rail, barge or ship, the markets for our products tend to be very localized around our quarry sites and are served by truck. New quarry sites often take a number of years to develop, Part I 16 Table of Contents therefore our strategic planning and new site development must stay ahead of actual growth. Additionally, in a number of urban and suburban areas in which we operate, it is increasingly difficult to permit new sites or expand existing sites due to community resistance. Therefore, our future success is dependent, in part, on our ability to accurately forecast future areas of high growth in order to locate optimal facility sites and on our ability to secure operating and environmental permits to operate at those sites. Our future growth depends in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry and successfully integrating them with our existing operations — The expansion of our business is dependent in part on the acquisition of existing businesses that own or control aggregates reserves. Disruptions in the availability of credit and financing could make it more difficult to capitalize on potential acquisitions. Additionally, with regard to the acquisitions we are able to complete, our future results will be dependent in part on our ability to successfully integrate these businesses with our existing operations. PERSONNEL RISKS Our future success greatly depends upon attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly in sales and operations — A significant factor in our future profitability is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified personnel, particularly in the areas of sales and operations, is affected by changing demographics of the available pool of workers with the training and skills necessary to fill the available positions, the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions, and our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefit packages. The costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have risen in recent years. Continuing increases in such costs could negatively affect our earnings — The costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have increased substantially over the past several years. We have instituted measures to help slow the rate of increase. However, if these costs continue to rise, we could suffer an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OTHER RISKS Weather can materially affect our operating results — Almost all of our products are used in the public or private construction industry, and our production and distribution facilities are located outdoors. Inclement weather affects both our ability to produce and distribute our products and affects our customers’ short-term demand because their work also can be hampered by weather. Therefore, our financial results can be negatively affected by inclement weather. Our products are transported by truck, rail, barge or ship, primarily by third-party providers. Significant delays or increased costs affecting these transportation methods could materially affect our operations and earnings — Our products are distributed either by truck to local markets or by rail, barge or oceangoing vessel to remote markets. The costs of transporting our products could be negatively affected by factors outside of our control, including rail service interruptions or rate increases, tariffs, rising fuel costs and capacity constraints. Additionally, inclement weather, including hurricanes, tornadoes and other weather events, can negatively impact our distribution network. We use large amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based resources that are subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuation — In our production and distribution processes, we consume significant amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based resources. The availability and pricing of these resources are subject to market forces that are beyond our control. Our suppliers contract separately for the purchase of such resources and our sources of supply could be interrupted should our suppliers not be able to obtain these materials due to higher demand or other factors that interrupt their availability. Variability in the supply and prices of these resources could materially affect our operating results from period to period and rising costs could erode our profitability. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings. We cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty — We are involved in several class action and complex litigation proceedings, some arising from our previous ownership and operation of our Chemicals business. Although we divested our Chemicals business in June 2005, we retained certain liabilities related to the business. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, we establish reserves when a loss is determined to be probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Our assessment of probability and loss estimates are based on the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of a loss contingency, and could result in an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. For a description of our current significant legal proceedings see Note 12 “Commitments and Contingencies” in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Part I 17 Table of Contents We are involved in certain environmental matters. We cannot predict the outcome of these contingencies with certainty — We are involved in environmental investigations and cleanups at sites where we operate or have operated in the past or sent materials for recycling or disposal, primarily in connection with our divested Chemicals and Metals businesses. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, we establish reserves when a loss is determined to be probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Our assessment of probability and loss estimates are based on the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments related to these matters may affect our assessment and estimates of loss contingency, and could result in an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. For a description of our current significant environmental matters see Note 12 “Commitments and Contingencies” in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 