ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the information included in or incorporated by reference in this report, before deciding whether an investment in our common stock is suitable for you. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In such an event, the trading prices of our common stock could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. The following is a list of our risk factors. FINANCIAL/ACCOUNTING RISKS Continued slow economic recovery in the construction industry may result in an impairment of our goodwill — We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances change in a manner that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. While we have not identified any events or changes in circumstances since our annual impairment test on November 1, 2012 that indicate the fair value of any of our reporting units is below its carrying value, the timing of a sustained recovery in the construction industry may have a significant effect on the fair value of our reporting units. A significant decrease in the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units could result in the recognition of a material, noncash write-down of goodwill that would reduce equity and result in an increase in our total debt as a percentage of total capital (41.6% as of December 31, 2012). We incurred considerable short-term and long-term debt to finance the Florida Rock merger. This additional debt significantly increased our interest expense and debt service requirements — The combination of this debt and our reduced operating cash flow over the last several years produced substantially higher financial leverage that has resulted in credit rating downgrades. Our operating cash flow is burdened by substantial annual interest, and in some years, principal payments. Our ability to make scheduled interest and principal payments, or to refinance the maturing principal of debt, depends on our operating and financial performance. The ability to refinance maturing principal is also dependent upon the state of the capital markets. Operating and financial performance is, in turn, subject to general economic and business conditions, many of which are beyond our control. Our debt instruments contain various reporting and financial covenants, as well as affirmative covenants (e.g., requirement to maintain proper insurance) and negative covenants (e.g., restrictions on lines of business). If we fail to comply with any of these covenants, the related debt could become due prior to its stated maturity, and our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing could be impaired. Our new regional alignment and restructuring of our accounting and certain administrative functions may not yield the anticipated efficiencies and may result in a loss of key personnel — In December 2011, we announced a major change in the structure of our business, going from eight geographical divisions to four regions. We have taken steps to consolidate the operations, sales, finance, accounting, human resources, engineering and geologic services functions. This consolidation is expected to reduce the cost of overhead support functions going forward. The administrative efficiencies which we believe will result from the consolidation may not be realized to the extent anticipated thereby reducing the operating income benefit. Additionally, key personnel may decide not to relocate and employees affected by the consolidation may leave us due to uncertainty prior to completing the transition efforts, which may slow the restructuring process and increase its cost. Part I 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our announced earnings growth initiatives, including a Profit Enhancement Plan and Planned Asset Sales, may not realize results to the desired degree or within the desired time period, and therefore the results of these initiatives may differ materially from those anticipated — In February 2012, we announced a two-part initiative to accelerate earnings growth and improve our credit profile. This initiative included a plan to reduce costs and other earnings enhancements for a $100 million earnings effect over the subsequent 18 months. We also announced a plan to sell certain assets over 18 months ending July 2013 for net proceeds of $500 million. These anticipated results are subject to a number of execution risks that could result in actual results that are much lower than the anticipated results. Additionally, even if the results are achieved, it could take longer than the announced timeframe before such results may be realized. Our industry is capital intensive, resulting in significant fixed and semi-fixed costs. Therefore, our earnings are highly sensitive to changes in volume — Due to the high levels of fixed capital required for extracting and producing construction aggregates, both our dollar profits and our percentage of net sales (margin) could be negatively affected by decreases in volume. We use estimates in accounting for a number of significant items. Changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results — As discussed more fully in “Critical Accounting Policies” under Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” we use significant judgment in accounting for: ¡ goodwill and goodwill impairment ¡ impairment of long-lived assets excluding goodwill ¡ reclamation costs ¡ pension and other postretirement benefits ¡ environmental remediation liabilities ¡ claims and litigation including self-insurance ¡ income taxes We believe we have sufficient experience and reasonable procedures to enable us to make appropriate assumptions and formulate reasonable estimates; however, these assumptions and estimates could change significantly in the future and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. ECONOMIC/POLITICAL RISKS Both commercial and residential construction are dependent upon the overall U.S. economy which has been recovering at a slow pace — Commercial and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles. When the economy is strong, construction levels rise and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. The overall U.S. economy has been adversely affected by the recent recession. Although the U.S. economy is now in recovery, the pace of recovery is slow. Since construction activity generally lags the recovery after down cycles, construction projects have not returned to their pre-recession levels. Low housing starts and general weakness in the housing market could continue to negatively affect demand for our products — In most of our markets, sales volumes have been negatively impacted by foreclosures and a significant decline from peak housing starts in residential construction. Our sales volumes and earnings could continue to be depressed and negatively impacted by this segment of the market until residential construction sustains a significant recovery. Changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, environmental and other areas of the law may result in additional liabilities, a reduction in operating hours and additional capital expenditures — Our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations related to zoning, land use and environmental matters. Despite our compliance efforts, we have an inherent risk of liability in the operation of our business. These potential liabilities could have an adverse impact on our operations and profitability. In addition, our operations are subject to environmental, zoning and land use requirements and require numerous governmental approvals and permits, which often require us to make significant capital and maintenance and operating expenditures to comply with the applicable requirements. Stricter laws and regulations, or more stringent interpretations of existing laws or regulations, Part I 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements may impose new liabilities on us, reduce operating hours, require additional investment by us in pollution control equipment, or impede our opening new or expanding existing plants or facilities. Climate change and climate change legislation or regulations may adversely impact our business — A number of governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory change in response to the potential impacts of climate change. Such legislation or regulation, if enacted, potentially could include provisions for a “cap and trade” system of allowances and credits or a carbon tax, among other provisions. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) promulgated a mandatory reporting rule covering greenhouse gas emissions from sources considered to be large emitters. The EPA has also promulgated a greenhouse gas emissions permitting rule, referred to as the “Tailoring Rule,” which requires permitting of large emitters of greenhouse gases under the Federal Clean Air Act. We have determined that our Newberry cement plant is subject to both the reporting rule and the permitting rule, although the impacts of the permitting rule are uncertain at this time. The first required greenhouse gas emissions report for the Newberry cement plant was submitted to the EPA on March 31, 2011. Other potential impacts of climate change include physical impacts such as disruption in production and product distribution due to impacts from major storm events, shifts in regional weather patterns and intensities, and potential impacts from sea level changes. There is also a potential for climate change legislation and regulation to adversely impact the cost of purchased energy and electricity. The impacts of climate change on our operations and the company overall are highly uncertain and difficult to estimate. However, climate change and legislation and regulation concerning greenhouse gases could have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations or cash flows. GROWTH AND COMPETITIVE RISKS Within our local markets, we operate in a highly competitive industry which may negatively impact prices, volumes and costs — The construction aggregates industry is highly fragmented with a large number of independent local producers in a number of our markets. Additionally, in most markets, we also compete against large private and public companies, some of which are significantly vertically integrated. Therefore, there is intense competition in a number of markets in which we operate. This significant competition could lead to lower prices, lower sales volumes and higher costs in some markets, negatively affecting our earnings and cash flows. In certain markets, vertically integrated competitors have acquired a portion of our asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete customers and this trend may accelerate. Our long-term success depends upon securing and permitting aggregates reserves in strategically located areas. If we are unable to secure and permit such reserves it could negatively affect our earnings in the future — Construction aggregates are bulky and heavy and, therefore, difficult to transport efficiently. Because of the nature of the products, the freight costs can quickly surpass the production costs. Therefore, except for geographic regions that do not possess commercially viable deposits of aggregates and are served by rail, barge or ship, the markets for our products tend to be localized around our quarry sites and are served by truck. New quarry sites often take years to develop, therefore our strategic planning and new site development must stay ahead of actual growth. Additionally, in a number of urban and suburban areas in which we operate, it is increasingly difficult to permit new sites or expand existing sites due to community resistance. Therefore, our future success is dependent, in part, on our ability to accurately forecast future areas of high growth in order to locate optimal facility sites and on our ability to secure operating and environmental permits to operate at those sites. Our future growth depends in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry and successfully integrating them with our existing operations. If we are unable to integrate acquisitions successfully, it could lead to higher costs and could negatively affect our earnings — The expansion of our business is dependent in part on the acquisition of existing businesses that own or control aggregates reserves. Disruptions in the availability of financing could make it more difficult to capitalize on potential acquisitions. Additionally, with regard to the acquisitions we are able to complete, our future results will be dependent in part on our ability to successfully integrate these businesses with our existing operations. Part I 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements PERSONNEL RISKS Our business depends on a successful succession plan — As a number of our long-serving top executives approach retirement age, effective succession planning has become very important to our long-term success. The Governance and Management Succession Committee of our Board of Directors as well as the full Board routinely reviews and updates the Company’s management succession plan. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Additionally, this change in management may be disruptive to our business and during the transition period there may be uncertainty among investors, vendors, customers and others concerning our future direction and performance. Our future success greatly depends upon attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly in sales and operations — A significant factor in our future profitability is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified personnel, particularly in the areas of sales and operations, is affected by changing demographics of the available pool of workers with the training and skills necessary to fill the available positions, the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions, and our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefit packages. The costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have risen in recent years. Continuing increases in such costs could negatively affect our earnings — The costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have increased substantially over the past several years. We have instituted measures to help slow the rate of increase. However, if these costs continue to rise, we could suffer an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. OTHER RISKS Weather can materially affect our operating results — Almost all of our products are consumed outdoors in the public or private construction industry, and our production and distribution facilities are located outdoors. Inclement weather affects both our ability to produce and distribute our products and affects our customers’ short-term demand because their work also can be hampered by weather. Therefore, our financial results can be negatively affected by inclement weather. Our products are transported by truck, rail, barge or ship, often by third-party providers. Significant delays or increased costs affecting these transportation methods could materially affect our operations and earnings — Our products are distributed either by truck to local markets or by rail, barge or oceangoing vessel to remote markets. The costs of transporting our products could be negatively affected by factors outside of our control, including rail service interruptions or rate increases, tariffs, rising fuel costs and capacity constraints. Additionally, inclement weather, including hurricanes, tornadoes and other weather events, can negatively impact our distribution network. We use large amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based resources that are subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuation, which could affect our operating results and profitability — In our production and distribution processes, we consume significant amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based resources. The availability and pricing of these resources are subject to market forces that are beyond our control. Our suppliers contract separately for the purchase of such resources and our sources of supply could be interrupted should our suppliers not be able to obtain these materials due to higher demand or other factors that interrupt their availability. Variability in the supply and prices of these resources could materially affect our operating results from period to period and rising costs could erode our profitability. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings. We cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty — We are involved in several complex litigation proceedings, some arising from our previous ownership and operation of our Chemicals business. Although we divested our Chemicals business in June 2005, we retained certain liabilities related to the business. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, we establish reserves when a loss is determined to be probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Our assessment of probability and loss estimates are based on the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of a loss contingency, and could result in an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. For a description of our current significant legal proceedings see Note 12 “Commitments and Contingencies” in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Part I 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are involved in certain environmental matters. We cannot predict the outcome of these contingencies with certainty — We are involved in environmental investigations and cleanups at sites where we operate or have operated in the past or sent materials for recycling or disposal, primarily in connection with our divested Chemicals and Metals businesses. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, we establish reserves when a loss is determined to be probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Our assessment of probability and loss estimates are based on the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments related to these matters may affect our assessment and estimates of loss contingency, and could result in an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. For a description of our current significant environmental matters see Note 12 “Commitments and Contingencies” in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Part I 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act of 1934 that remain unresolved. 