Item 1A. Risk Factors.Risks Related to the Agreement and Plan of MergerThe Merger is subject to various closing conditions, and there can be no assurances as to whether and when it may be completedOn December 30, 2012, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Duff & Phelps Acquisitions, LLC (“D&P Acquisitions”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Duff & Phelps Corporation, Dakota Holding Corporation (“Parent”), Dakota Acquisition I, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (“Merger Sub I”), and Dakota Acquisition II, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Dakota Acquisition I, Inc. (“Merger Sub II”), pursuant to which Merger Sub II will merge with and into D&P Acquisitions with D&P Acquisitions surviving, and immediately thereafter Merger Sub I will merge with and into the Company (the “Merger”) with the Company surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent. Parent is owned by funds advised by Carlyle Investment Management, L.L.C. (d/b/a The Carlyle Group), Stone Point Capital LLC, Pictet & Cie, and The Edmond de Rothschild Group.Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, if the Merger is consummated, each outstanding share of our Class A common stock will be converted into the right to receive $15.55 per share in cash plus any unpaid dividends with respect thereto with a record date prior to the effective time of the Merger, in each case without interest and less applicable withholding taxes. The consummation of the Merger is subject to certain closing conditions, including the approval of our stockholders and regulatory approvals. The Merger is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions that are beyond our control that may prevent, delay or otherwise adversely affect the completion of the Merger. These conditions include, among other things, stockholder and regulatory approval. We cannot predict with certainty whether and when any of these conditions will be satisfied. Assuming the satisfaction of the conditions to the Merger, we expect the transaction to close in the first half of 2013, as to which there can be no assurance.The Merger Agreement may be terminated under certain circumstances, including in specified circumstances in connection with superior proposals. In certain circumstances, we would be responsible to pay a termination fee to Parent of $19,964. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, the termination fee we may be required to pay, if any, under the Merger Agreement may require us to use available cash that would have otherwise been available for general corporate purposes.If the Merger Agreement is terminated, our remedies will be limitedEven though obtaining financing is not a condition to the completion of the Merger, the failure of Parent to obtain sufficient financing is likely to result in the failure of the Merger to be completed. In that case, and in certain other cases, Parent may be obligated to pay us a fee equal to $39,929. Subject to certain specific performance rights, such fee (and in certain cases interest payments, reimbursement of certain limited expenses and certain indemnification rights related to the financing) is our sole and exclusive remedy against Parent, Merger Sub I, Merger Sub II, their financing sources, any of their respective affiliates and any of their respective former, current, or future general or limited partners, stockholders, directors, officers, employees, managers, members or agents for any loss suffered with respect to the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, the termination of the Merger Agreement, the failure of the Merger to be consummated or any breach of the Merger Agreement by Parent, Merger Sub I or Merger Sub II.The pendency of the Merger could materially and adversely affect our operations and the future of our business or result in a loss of employeesIn connection with the pending Merger, it is possible that some clients, suppliers and other persons with whom we have a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationship with us as a result of the Merger, which could negatively impact our revenue, earnings and cash flows, as well as the market price of our Class A common stock, regardless of whether the Merger is completed. Similarly, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us following completion of the Merger, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees.11 The Merger Agreement restricts the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the Merger and limits our ability to pursue an alternative acquisition proposal to the MergerUnder the Merger Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the Merger which may adversely affect our ability to execute certain of our business strategies. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business prior to completion of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. In addition, the Merger Agreement prohibits us from soliciting alternative acquisition proposals from third parties and engaging in discussions or negotiations with third parties regarding alternative acquisition proposals from February 9, 2013, subject to exceptions set forth in the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement also provides that we are required to pay a termination fee of $19,964 if the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, including if we terminate to accept an alternative acquisition proposal. These provisions limit our ability to pursue offers from third parties that could result in greater value to our stockholders than the value resulting from the Merger. The termination fee may also discourage third parties from pursuing an acquisition proposal with respect to us.The Merger Agreement restricts our ability to declare and pay dividendsWe pay quarterly cash dividends to holders of record of our Class A common stock. Dividends are subject to capital availability and periodic determinations that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders. Future declaration, payment and the amount of dividends on our common stock is at the discretion of our board of directors and depend upon, among other things, our future operations and earnings, capital requirements and surplus, general financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors as the board of directors may deem relevant. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all. If, for example, deteriorating economic conditions or disruptions in the credit markets have a significant impact on our liquidity or ability to obtain financing, our board of directors could decide to suspend dividend payments in the future. A suspension of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price.Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we are only permitted to make payments of our regular quarterly dividends of $0.09 per share of our Class A common stock with record dates and payment dates consistent with the prior year. The timing of the closing of the Merger will impact whether our Class A stockholders will receive future dividends to the extent declared by our board of directors. If the Merger Agreement is consummated, current holders of our Class A common stock will no longer be entitled to receive dividends following consummation of the Merger. Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact our stock price and our future businesses and financial resultsIf the Merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and we will be subject to several risks and consequences, including the following: •under the Merger Agreement, we may be required to pay a termination fee of either $6,656 (and reimburse Parent for certain fees and expenses related to the transaction up to $1,250) or $19,964 (depending on the circumstances); •we may be required to pay certain costs relating to the Merger, whether or not the Merger is completed, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees; •having had the focus of our management directed towards the Merger instead of our core business and other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us; and •a lack of alternative business combination transactions that would create stockholder value comparable to the value perceived to be created by the Merger in the event our board of directors determines to seek an alternative transaction.In addition, if the Merger is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our customers and employees. We also could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the Merger or to enforcement proceedings commenced against us to attempt to force us to perform our obligations under the Merger Agreement. Our remedies if the Merger Agreement is terminated are limited. 12 Pending litigation against the Company, the other parties to the merger and our directors could result in an injunction preventing completion of the Merger or the payment of damages in the event the Merger is completedSince the announcement on December 30, 2012 of the execution of the Merger Agreement, the Company, the members of our board of directors and certain other parties to the Merger Agreement have been named as defendants in two lawsuits brought by individuals who allege to be our stockholders challenging the proposed Merger. The lawsuits allege generally, among other things, that the Merger fails to properly value the Company, that our directors breached their fiduciary duties in approving the Merger Agreement and that those breaches were aided and abetted by, in one lawsuit, the Company, D&P Acquisitions, Parent, Merger Sub I and Merger Sub II and in the other lawsuit, D&P Acquisitions, Parent, Merger Sub I, Merger Sub II, Carlyle Investment Management, L.L.C. (d/b/a The Carlyle Group), Stone Point Capital LLC, Pictet & Cie and The Edmond de Rothschild Group. The lawsuits seek, among other things, injunctive relief to enjoin the defendants from completing the Merger on the agreed upon terms, monetary relief, rescission and attorneys' fees and costs.One of the conditions to the closing of the Merger is that no order, injunction or decree issued by any court or agency of competent jurisdiction or other legal restraint or prohibition preventing the completion of the Merger or any of the transactions contemplated under the Merger Agreement must be in effect and completion of the Merger must not be illegal under any applicable statute, rule, regulation, order, injunction or decree enacted, entered, promulgated or enforced by any governmental entity. Consequently, if the plaintiffs secure injunctive or other relief prohibiting, delaying or otherwise adversely affecting the defendants' ability to complete the Merger, then such injunctive or other relief may prevent the Merger from becoming effective within the expected time frame or at all. If completion of the Merger is prevented or delayed, it could result in substantial costs to us. In addition, we could incur significant costs in connection with the lawsuits, including costs associated with the indemnification of our directors and officers. Risks Related to Our BusinessAn economic downturn, decline in global financial markets and/or other conditions beyond our control may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, access to funding, the market price of our Class A common stock and sufficient sources of capital to meet our working capital needsAn economic downturn, decline in global financial markets and/or other conditions beyond our control may adversely affect employment rates, commercial and consumer spending, commercial and consumer indebtedness, availability of credit, asset values, investments and liquidity, which in turn may negatively impact certain of our customers and have resulted and may result in decreased demand or pricing levels for our services. As a financial advisory and investment banking firm, our business segments are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world. For example, revenue generated by our M&A advisory, transaction opinions and purchase price allocation engagements is directly related to the volume and size of the M&A transactions for which we provide services. During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the volume and size of M&A transactions may decrease, thereby reducing the demand for our services and increasing price competition among financial advisory firms seeking such engagements. Our results of operations would be adversely affected by any such reduction in the volume or value of M&A transactions. Our profitability could also be adversely affected by our fixed costs and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back other costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in revenue relating to changes in market and economic conditions. Also, if we attempt to obtain future financing in addition to, or replacement of, our existing credit facility, to finance our continued growth through acquisitions or otherwise, changes in global economic conditions could negatively impact our ability to obtain such financing which could adversely affect our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Our clients may be unable to pay us for our servicesOur clients include some companies that may from time to time encounter financial difficulties. If a client's financial difficulties become severe, the client may be unwilling or unable to pay our invoices in the ordinary course of business, which could adversely affect collections of our accounts receivable and unbilled services. On occasion, some of our clients have entered bankruptcy, which has prevented us from collecting amounts owed to us. The bankruptcy of a client with a substantial account receivable could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if a 13 client declares bankruptcy after paying us certain invoices, a court may determine that we are not properly entitled to that payment and may require repayment of some or all of the amount we received, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our business operates in a highly competitive environment where typically there are no long-term contracted sources of revenue and clients can terminate engagements with us at any timeOur business operates in a highly competitive environment where typically there are no long-term contracted sources of revenue. Typically, each revenue-generating engagement is separately solicited, awarded and negotiated. In addition, many businesses do not routinely engage in transactions requiring our services. As a consequence, our fee-paying engagements with many clients are not likely to be predictable, and high levels of revenue in one period are not necessarily predictive of continued high levels of revenue in future periods. We also lose clients each year as a result of the sale or merger of a client, a change in a client's senior management, competition from other firms and other causes. As a result, our revenue could decline materially due to such changes in the volume, nature and scope of our engagements.Further, many of our engagements depend upon transactions, disputes or proceedings that involve our clients. Our clients may decide at any time to abandon the transaction, resolve the dispute or proceeding or file for bankruptcy. Our engagements can therefore terminate suddenly and without advance notice to us. If an engagement is terminated unexpectedly, our client service professionals working on the engagement could be underutilized until we assign them to other projects. In addition, because much of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature, our client service professionals' utilization depends on our ability to secure engagements on a continual basis. Accordingly, the termination or significant reduction in the scope of a single large engagement could have an immediate adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations.A high percentage of our revenue is derived from a small number of clients and the reduction of services provided to clients or termination of any one of our engagements could reduce our revenue and harm our operating resultsOur clients operate in a broad array of industries and include Fortune 1000 companies, smaller companies, prominent law firms, and leading private equity and hedge funds. Our top ten clients represented approximately 13.2%, 12.8% and 11.8% of revenue excluding reimbursable expenses in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The composition of the group of clients comprising these percentages can vary significantly each year, and a relatively small number of clients may account for a significant portion of our revenue. The loss, decrease or inability to replace revenue from even one client or the failure of us to consummate a success-fee based engagement could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations.The financial advisory, alternative asset advisory and investment banking industries are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectivelyThe financial advisory and alternative asset advisory industries are extremely competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change and we expect it to remain so in the future. The industries include a large number of participants with a variety of skills and industry expertise, including the consulting practices of major accounting, financial consulting, technical and economic advisory, general management consulting firms and regional and specialty consulting firms as well as the internal professional resources of organizations. Our competitors vary depending on the particular practice group. In addition, we also expect to continue to face competition from new entrants because the barriers to entry into financial advisory services and corporate finance consulting are relatively low. The principal competitive factors in the financial advisory and corporate finance consulting markets include firm and professional reputations, client and referral source relationships, the ability to attract and retain top professionals, the ability to manage engagements effectively and the ability to be responsive and provide high quality services. There is also competition on price. Many of our competitors have greater national and international presences, as well as significantly greater personnel, financial, technical and marketing resources. In addition, these competitors may generate greater revenue and have greater name recognition than we do. If we are unable to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with any new competitors, our financial results will be adversely affected.The investment banking industry is extremely competitive and we expect it to remain so in the future. Most of our competitors in the investment banking industry have a wider range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more managing directors to serve their clients' needs, greater global reach and more established relationships with their customers than we have. These larger and better capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the investment banking market, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. In particular, the ability to provide financing as 14 well as advisory services has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors, and because we are unable to provide such financing we may be unable to compete for advisory clients in a significant part of the investment banking market.Our inability to hire and retain talented people in an industry where there is great competition for talent could have a serious negative effect on our prospects and results of operationsOur business involves the delivery of professional services and is highly labor-intensive. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Competition for qualified professionals in the financial advisory and investment banking industries is intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively in our business depends on our ability to attract new professionals and to retain and motivate our existing professionals. The unexpected or unplanned loss of a significant number of our professionals or the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain additional skilled personnel could have a serious negative effect on us, including our ability to manage, staff and successfully complete our existing engagements and obtain new engagements. Increasing competition for these individuals may also significantly increase our labor costs, which could negatively affect our margins and results of operations.Our inability to retain our senior management team and other key personnel would be detrimental to our businessWe rely heavily on our senior management team and other key personnel, and our ability to retain them is particularly important to our business. Given the highly specialized nature of our services, these people must have a thorough understanding of our service offerings as well as the skills and experience necessary to manage an organization consisting of a diverse group of professionals. In addition, we rely on our senior management team and other key personnel to generate and market our business. Many of our key personnel do not have employment contracts with us. Any of our key personnel, including those with written employment contracts, may voluntarily terminate his or her employment with us. If one or more members of our senior management team or our other managing directors leave and we cannot replace them with a suitable candidate quickly, we could experience difficulty in securing and successfully completing engagements and managing our business properly, which could harm our business prospects and results of operations. In addition, the loss of these personnel could jeopardize our relationships with clients and result in the loss of client engagements.Revenue from our success-based engagements are difficult to predict, and the timing and extent of recovery of our costs is uncertainFrom time to time, primarily in our Investment Banking segment and in certain of our Tax Services businesses, we enter into engagement agreements under which our fees include a significant success-based component. Success-based fees are contingent on the achievement of certain goals, such as the successful completion of a transaction or restructuring. In many cases we are not paid for advisory engagements that do not result in the successful consummation of a transaction or restructuring, other than the reimbursement of certain out-of-pocket expenses and, in some cases, a modest retainer. The achievement of these contractually-defined goals is often impacted by factors outside of our control, such as market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. For example, a client could delay or terminate an acquisition transaction because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or shareholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or because the target's business is experiencing unexpected financial problems. Anticipated bidders for assets of a client during a restructuring transaction may not materialize or our client may not be able to restructure its operations or indebtedness due to a failure to reach agreement with its principal creditors. Because success-based fees are contingent, revenue on such engagements, which is recognized when all revenue recognition criteria are met, is not certain and the timing of receipt is difficult to predict and may not occur evenly throughout the year. In the current economic environment, completing transactions is a challenge, and many have failed or been delayed, making our ability to predict revenue increasingly difficult, even late into any fiscal period. We intend to continue to enter into success-based fee arrangements and these engagements could impact our revenue to a greater extent in the future. Should success-based fee arrangements represent a greater percentage of our business in the future, we may experience increased volatility in our working capital requirements and greater variations in our quarter-to-quarter results, which could affect the price of our Class A common stock.15 Our financial results could suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and suitable billing rates for our client service professionalsOur profitability depends to a large extent on the utilization and billing rates of our client service professionals in our Financial Advisory and Alternative Asset Advisory segments. Utilization of our client service professionals is affected by a number of factors, including, among other things, the number and size of client engagements, the timing of the commencement, completion and termination of engagements, which in many cases is unpredictable, our ability to transition our client service professionals efficiently from completed engagements to new engagements, the hiring of additional client service professionals (because there is generally a transition period for new client service professionals that may result in a temporary drop in our utilization rate, which may be the result of restrictions imposed by non-compete or other similar agreements with the professional's former employer), unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements, our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate level of client service professionals, and conditions affecting the industries in which we practice as well as general economic conditions.The billing rates of our client service professionals in our Financial Advisory and Alternative Asset Advisory segments are also affected by a number of factors, including, among other things, our clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services, the market demand for the services we provide, introduction of new services by us or our competitors, the pricing policies of our competitors and general economic conditions. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate overall utilization as well as maintain or increase the billing rates for our professionals, our financial results could materially suffer.The profitability of our fixed-fee engagements with clients may not meet our expectations if we underestimate the cost of these engagementsWhen making proposals for fixed-fee engagements, we estimate the costs and timing for completing the engagements. These estimates reflect our best judgment regarding the efficiencies of our methodologies and client service professionals as we plan to deploy them on engagements. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of fixed-fee engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse effect on our profit margin.Acquisitions or investments may disrupt our operations or adversely affect our resultsWe regularly evaluate opportunities to acquire or invest in other businesses as part of our growth strategy where we think we can add substantial value or generate meaningful returns. Acquisitions or investments may be dependent upon the availability of suitable opportunities and capital resources to effect our strategy, contractual limitations (including those under the Merger Agreement and our credit agreement), the level of competition from other companies that may have greater financial resources than we do or may not require the same level of disclosure of these activities, our ability to value acquisition and investment candidates accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those acquisitions and investments, and our ability to identify and enter into mutually beneficial relationships with joint venture partners. The expenses we incur evaluating, pursuing and integrating acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we acquire a business, we may be unable to manage it profitably or successfully integrate its operations with our own. In particular, non-U.S. companies offer distinct integration challenges related to foreign laws and governmental regulations, including tax and employee benefit laws, and other factors relating to operating in countries other than the U.S.Moreover, we may be unable to realize the financial, operational and other benefits we anticipate from acquisitions. Competition for future acquisition opportunities in our markets could increase the price we pay for businesses we acquire and could reduce the number of potential acquisition targets. As a result, certain acquisitions may not be accretive to our overall financial results in the near term. Acquiring the equity of an existing business or substantially all of the assets of a company may expose us to liability for actions taken by an acquired business and its management before the acquisition. The due diligence we conduct in connection with an acquisition and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from the sellers of acquired companies may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. A material liability associated with an acquisition, especially where there is no right to indemnification, could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.Further, acquisitions may involve a number of special financial and business risks, including expenses related to any potential acquisition from which we may withdraw, diversion of our management's time, attention and resources, decreased utilization during the integration process, loss of key acquired personnel, difficulties in integrating diverse corporate cultures, 16 increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, dilutive issuances of equity securities, including convertible debt securities, the assumption of legal liabilities, amortization of acquired intangible assets, potential write-offs related to the impairment of goodwill and additional conflicts of interest.Our international operations create special risksWe intend to continue our international expansion, and our international revenue could account for an increasing portion of our revenue in the future. Our international operations carry special financial and business risks, and include the following: •greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations, •language and cultural differences, •currency fluctuations that adversely affect our financial position and operating results, •unexpected changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers, •greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, •longer sales cycles, •higher operating costs, •employment laws, regulatory requirements and rules and related social and cultural factors could result in lower utilization rates and cyclical fluctuations in utilization and revenue, •adverse consequences or restrictions on the repatriation of earnings, •potentially adverse tax consequences, such as trapped foreign losses, •less stable political and economic environments, including the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, and •civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity.If our international revenue increases relative to our total revenues, these factors could have a more pronounced effect on our operating results.Fluctuations in our quarterly revenue and results of operations could depress the market price of our common stockWe may experience significant fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations from one quarter to the next. If our revenue or net income in a quarter falls below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our Class A common stock could fall significantly. Our results of operations in any quarter can fluctuate for many reasons, including the number, scope, and timing of ongoing client engagements; when we receive success-based fees; the extent to which we can reassign our client service professionals efficiently from one engagement to the next; the extent to which our client service professionals take holiday, vacation, and sick time; hiring; the extent of fee discounting or cost overruns and other factors affecting productivity and collectability of receivables and unbilled work in process.Because we generate a substantial portion of our revenue from advisory services that we provide on a time-and-materials basis, our revenue in any period is directly related to the number of our client service professionals, their billing rates, and the number of billable hours they work in that period. We have a limited ability to increase any of these factors in the short term. Accordingly, if we underutilize our client service professionals during one part of a fiscal period, we may be unable to compensate by augmenting revenue during another part of that period. In addition, we are occasionally unable to fully utilize any additional client service professionals that we hire, particularly in the quarter in which we hire them. Moreover, a significant majority of our operating expenses, primarily office rent and salaries, are fixed in the short term. As a result, if our revenue fails to meet our expectations in any quarter, the shortfall could have a disproportionate adverse effect on our net income. For these reasons, we believe our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of our future performance.Potential conflicts of interest may preclude us from accepting some engagementsWe provide our services primarily in connection with significant or complex transactions, disputes, bankruptcies, insolvencies or other matters that usually involve sensitive client information or are adversarial. Our engagement by a client may preclude us from accepting engagements with the client's competitors or adversaries because of conflicts, or perceived 17 conflicts, between their business interests or positions on disputed issues or other reasons. Accordingly, the nature of our business limits the number of both potential clients and potential engagements. Moreover, in many industries in which we provide services, there has been a continuing trend toward business consolidations and strategic alliances. These consolidations and alliances reduce the number of potential clients for our services and increase the chances that we will be unable to continue some of our ongoing engagements or accept new engagements as a result of actual or perceived conflicts of interest.Our ability to maintain and attract new business depends upon our reputation, the professional reputation of our client service professionals and the quality of our servicesAs a professional services firm, our ability to secure new engagements depends heavily upon our reputation and the individual reputations of our client service professionals. Any factor that diminishes our reputation or that of our client service professionals, including not meeting client expectations or misconduct by our client service professionals, could make it substantially more difficult for us to attract new engagements and clients. Similarly, because we obtain many of our new engagements from former or current clients or from referrals by those clients or by law, accounting or investment banking firms with whom we have worked in the past, any client that questions the quality of our work or that of our client service professionals could impair our ability to secure additional new engagements and clients.Our intellectual property rights in our Duff & Phelps name are important, and any inability to use that name could negatively impact our ability to build brand identityWe believe that establishing, maintaining and enhancing the Duff & Phelps name are important to our business. Pursuant to a name use agreement between us and Phoenix Duff & Phelps Corporation, a subsidiary of Virtus Investment Partners, Inc., we have the perpetual exclusive right to use the Duff & Phelps name in connection with capital raising, M&A services, corporate valuations, fairness opinions, strategic financial consulting, capital adequacy opinions and certain other investment banking businesses. It is possible that we and Phoenix Duff & Phelps Corporation could disagree on whether certain types of our businesses are covered by the name use agreement. If Phoenix Duff & Phelps Corporation were to successfully challenge our right to use our name, or if we were unable to prevent a competitor from using a name that is similar to our name, our ability to build brand identity could be negatively impacted. In addition, if Phoenix Duff & Phelps Corporation is involved in any misconduct or illegal activity, our reputation could be negatively impacted.Our engagements could result in professional liability, which could be very costly and hurt our reputationOur engagements typically involve complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment. As a result, we are subject to the risk of professional liability. If a client questions the quality of our work, the client could threaten or bring a lawsuit to recover damages or contest its obligation to pay our fees. Litigation alleging that we performed negligently or breached any other obligations to a client could expose us to significant legal liabilities and, regardless of outcome, is often very costly, could distract our management and could damage our reputation. In addition, third parties may allege reliance on our work which could expose us to additional lawsuits and potential liability. We are not always able to include provisions in our engagement agreements that are designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services. Even if these limiting provisions are included in an engagement agreement, they may not protect us or may not be enforceable under some circumstances, including, without limitation, in the context of a bankruptcy proceeding. In addition, we carry professional liability insurance to cover many of these types of claims, but the policy limits and the breadth of coverage may be inadequate to cover any particular claim or all claims plus the cost of legal defense. For example, we provide services on engagements in which the impact on a client may substantially exceed the limits of our professional liability coverage. If we are found to have professional liability with respect to work performed on such an engagement, we may not have sufficient insurance to cover the entire liability.We are subject to unpredictable risks of litigationAlthough we seek to avoid litigation whenever possible, from time to time we are party to various lawsuits and claims. Disputes may arise, for example, from client engagements, employment issues, regulatory actions, business acquisitions, real estate, other commercial transactions and stockholders. There can be no assurances that any lawsuits or claims will be immaterial in the future.Fees earned in connection with assignments in the bankruptcy context may be subject to challenge and reductionFrom time to time we advise debtors, creditors, examiners or other stakeholders of companies which are involved in bankruptcy proceedings in the United States Bankruptcy Courts. Under the applicable rules of those courts, our fees are subject 18 to approval by the court and other interested parties have the ability to challenge the payment of those fees. Fees earned and reflected in our revenue may be subject to successful challenges, which could result in a reduction of revenue and affect our stock price adversely.If the number of debt defaults, bankruptcies or other factors affecting global demand for our restructuring advisory services declines, or we lose business to new entrants into the restructuring advisory business that are no longer precluded from offering such services due to changes to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or other foreign statutes or regulations, our global restructuring advisory business' revenue could sufferWe provide various financial restructuring and related advice to companies in financial distress or to their creditors, examiners or other stakeholders on a global basis. A number of factors affect demand for these advisory services, including general economic conditions, the availability and cost of debt and equity financing and changes to laws, rules and regulations, including deregulation or privatization of particular industries and those that protect creditors. Section 327 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which requires that a “disinterested person” be employed in a restructuring, has been modified pursuant to the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005. The “disinterested person” definition of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code had historically disqualified certain of our competitors, but had not often disqualified us from obtaining a role in restructurings because we are not an underwriter of securities or lender. However, the 2005 amendment to the “disinterested person” definition allows underwriters of securities to compete for restructuring engagements, as well as for the recruitment and retention of restructuring professionals. If our competitors are retained in new restructuring engagements, our restructuring advisory business, and thereby our results of operations, could be adversely affected.Our failure to comply with the covenants in our credit agreement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidityOur credit agreement contains financial covenants requiring, among other things, certain levels of interest and debt coverage. Poor financial performance could cause us to be in default of these covenants. If we fail to comply with the covenants in our credit agreement, this could result in our having to seek an amendment or waiver from our lenders to avoid the termination of their commitments and/or the acceleration of the maturity of outstanding amounts under the credit facility. The cost of our obtaining an amendment or waiver could be significant, and further, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain an amendment or waiver. If our lenders were unwilling to enter into an amendment or provide a waiver, all amounts outstanding under our credit facility would become immediately due and payable.We have variable rate indebtedness which subjects us to interest rate risk and may cause our annual debt service obligations to increase significantlyBorrowings under our credit facility are at variable rates of interest which expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and in turn, our net income would decrease.Legal and regulatory restrictions on our clients may reduce the demand for our servicesNew laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may adversely affect our businesses. For example, changes in antitrust enforcement could affect the level of M&A activity and changes in regulation could restrict the activities of our clients and their need for the types of advisory services that we provide to them.Changes in laws, regulations or accounting standards may adversely affect our businessAs an independent financial advisory firm, we have benefited from the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which substantially limits the scope of non-audit services that public accounting firms, such as the Big Four, can provide to their audit clients. Additionally, we have benefited from increased sensitivity among investors, managers and boards to auditor conflicts, which we believe has limited the engagement of public accounting firms to perform even permissible non-audit services. However, changes in the federal securities laws, changes in judicial interpretations of these laws or less vigorous enforcement of these laws, as a result of changes in political appointments or priorities or for other reasons, or reduced sensitivity among investors, managers and boards to auditor conflicts, could substantially reduce the limitations on public accounting firms to provide non-audit services, including the services that we provide or may provide in the future. Increased competition from accounting firms could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, it is possible 19 that increased sensitivity among investors or changes in regulations could lead to limits that would adversely impact us by creating real or perceived conflicts among the various services we provide to our clients.Further, the demand for a substantial portion of our business is generated by financial reporting requirements under U.S. GAAP or IFRS. For example, the demand for our purchase price allocation services is primarily driven by the requirement under FASB ASC 805, Business Combinations, that in a business combination the acquiring company allocates the purchase price to individual tangible assets as well as intangible assets and liabilities, based on fair value. Therefore, the demand for our services could decrease as a result of any future changes in accounting standards (e.g., FASB ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, or any suspension of so-called “mark-to-market” accounting) or our inability to develop expertise resulting from new standards or a change of existing standards. As a result, our financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected by any future changes in accounting standards.We are subject to extensive regulation in the financial services industryWe participate in the financial services industry, and are subject to extensive regulation in the United States, the United Kingdom and elsewhere. Duff & Phelps Securities, LLC, GCP Securities, LLC and Pagemill Partners, LLC (collectively, the “broker-dealers”), the subsidiaries through which we provide our M&A and restructuring advisory services, as well as private placements in the United States, are registered as broker-dealers with the SEC and are member firms of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”). Accordingly, the conduct and activities of our broker-dealers are subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC and FINRA. Certain state securities regulators also have regulatory or oversight authority over our broker-dealer subsidiaries. Duff & Phelps Securities, Ltd., our subsidiary, is authorized and regulated by the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom. In addition to conducting business in the United Kingdom, Duff & Phelps Securities, Ltd. has also received passports into 29 European Economic Area (“EEA”) territories. Under the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID”), Duff & Phelps Securities, Ltd. may engage in certain regulated activities on a cross border basis. Duff & Phelps Securities, Ltd. is allowed to conduct certain regulated services in those countries without receiving direct authorization from the host EEA state (i.e., the EEA country where the Company is doing business). The Financial Services Authority is wholly responsible for the Company's business conducted in the United Kingdom and all prudential regulation. The host state is responsible for regulating the conduct of that business. Therefore, although Duff & Phelps Securities, Ltd. is not required to obtain direct authorization from the host state, it must comply with local regulatory requirements. Duff & Phelps Securities, Ltd. also received permission from the Financial Services Authority and the Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (“BaFin”) to establish a branch office in Munich, Germany. Duff & Phelps SAS is regulated by the Autorité des marchés financiers (“AMF”). Certain restructuring and insolvency-related activities through Duff & Phelps Ltd. are subject to regulation and oversight by the Insolvency Practitioner's Association (“IPA”) in the UK. The IPA is a membership body recognized in the UK for the purposes of authorizing (licensing) insolvency practitioners (IPs) under the Insolvency Act 1986. The AMF is an independent public body located in France. Duff & Phelps SAS is permitted to conduct certain regulated activities in France as a result of this authorization. D&P Canada Restructuring Ltd. is registered with the Office of the Superintendent of Bankruptcy Canada (“OSBC”) and therefore is subject to regulatory oversight in connection with its financial restructuring practice. Among other things, the OSBC licenses and regulates trustees, the people who administer bankruptcies and insolvencies, and ensure they comply with all aspects of the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act.Our business is therefore subject to regulation by certain non-U.S. governmental and regulatory bodies and self-regulatory authorities in other countries where we operate. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. In addition, as a result of highly publicized financial scandals, the environment in which we operate may be subject to further regulation. New laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our business.Our operations and infrastructure could malfunction or failOur ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with or through whom we conduct business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, the effects of climate change, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer 20 viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise. We do not have fully redundant systems, and our disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of all services. Nearly all of our personnel in our primary locations work in close proximity to each other. If a disruption occurs in one location and our personnel in that location are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients and customers may suffer and we may not be able to implement successfully contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. We will need to continue to invest in technology in order to meet the developing demands of our clients and achieve redundancies necessary to prevent service interruptions.We depend on the use of sophisticated technologies and systems. Some of our practices provide services that are increasingly dependent on the use of software applications and systems that we do not own and could become unavailable. Moreover, our technology platforms will require continuing investments by us in order to expand existing service offerings and develop complementary services. Our future success depends on our ability to adapt our services and infrastructure while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services in response to the evolving demands of the marketplace.If the integrity of our information systems is compromised or our information systems are inadequate to keep up with the needs of our business, our reputation, business and results of operations could be adversely affectedOur operations rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients, partners and employees. The breadth and complexity of this infrastructure increases the potential risk of security breaches which could lead to potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In providing services to clients, we may manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data, including personal data. As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other personally identifiable information and international laws such as the European Union Directive on Data Protection.These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines, and/or criminal prosecution. In addition, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients and their related revenue in the future.Our potential liability in the event of a security breach of client data could be significant and depending on the circumstances giving rise to the breach, this liability may not be subject to a contractual limit of liability or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages. Any unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems, including an intentional attack by a person or persons who may develop and deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us.We have invested in specialized technology and other intellectual property for which we may fail to fully recover our investment or which may become obsoleteWe have invested in developing specialized technology and intellectual property, including proprietary systems, processes and methodologies, that we believe provide us a competitive advantage in serving our current clients and winning new engagements. Certain of our service offerings rely on specialized technology or intellectual property that is subject to rapid change, and to the extent that this technology and intellectual property is rendered obsolete and of no further use to us or our clients, our ability to continue offering these services, and grow our revenue, could be adversely affected. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop new, innovative or improved technology or intellectual property or that our technology and intellectual property will effectively compete with the intellectual property developed by our competitors. If we are unable to develop new technology and intellectual property or if our competitors develop better technology or intellectual property, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected.21 Expanding our service offerings or number of offices may not be profitable and our failure to manage expansion successfully could adversely affect our revenue and results of operationsWe may choose to develop new service offerings or open new offices because of market opportunities or client demands. Developing new service offerings involves inherent risks, including our inability to estimate demand for the new service offerings, competition from more established market participants, a lack of market understanding, and unanticipated expenses to recruit and hire qualified client service professionals and to market and provide our new service offerings. In addition, expanding into new geographic areas and/or expanding current service offerings is challenging and may require integrating new client service professionals into our culture as well as assessing the demand in the applicable market. Expansion creates new and increased management and training responsibilities for our professionals. Expansion also increases the demands on our internal systems, procedures, and controls, and on our managerial, administrative, financial, marketing, and other resources. New responsibilities and demands may adversely affect the overall quality of our work. If we cannot manage the risks associated with new service offerings or new locations effectively, we are unlikely to be successful in these efforts, which could harm our ability to sustain profitability and our business prospects.Goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets, and an impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operationsBecause we have acquired a significant number of businesses, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets. We may need to perform impairment tests more frequently if events occur or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, attrition of key personnel, a prolonged decline in our stock price and market capitalization, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of one of our businesses and other factors. The valuation of the reporting units requires judgment in estimating future cash flows, discount rates and other factors. In making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of our reporting units, including such factors as market performance, changes in our client base and projected growth rates. Because these factors are ever changing, due to market and general business conditions, we cannot predict whether, and to what extent, our goodwill and long-lived intangible assets may be impaired in future periods. We may be exposed to potential risks if we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal controlsIf we fail to achieve and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or fail to implement necessary new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external purposes, we may fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis, and may be unable to adequately or accurately report on our business and our results of operations. Even with adequate internal controls, we may not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. Also, internal controls that are currently adequate may in the future become inadequate because of changes in conditions and the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock.Employee misconduct could harm us and is difficult to detect and deterThere have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our company. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. Our business often requires that we deal with confidences of the greatest significance to our clients, the improper use of which may have a material adverse impact on our clients. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. Any breach of our clients' confidences as a result of employee misconduct could impair our ability to attract and retain clients.Risks Related to Our Organization and StructureOur only material asset is our ownership of D&P Acquisitions, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from D&P Acquisitions to pay dividends, if any, taxes and other expensesThe Company is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of New Class A Units. The Company has no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause D&P Acquisitions to make distributions to its unitholders in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable, payments pursuant to the Tax Receivable Agreement 22 (as defined below) and dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent that we need funds, and D&P Acquisitions is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.We are required to pay the former unitholders of D&P Acquisitions for certain tax benefitsWe are treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as having directly purchased membership interests in D&P Acquisitions from the unitholders of New Class A Units when New Class A Units are exchanged for Class A common stock or redeemed. As a result of our initial redemption of New Class A Units with a portion of the proceeds of the IPO and additional exchanges or redemptions of New Class A Units, we are and will be entitled to a proportionate share of D&P Acquisitions' existing tax basis for its assets, and we will also become entitled to certain tax basis adjustments reflecting the difference between the price we pay to acquire those units and that proportionate share. As a result, the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future may be reduced, although the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) may challenge all or part of that tax basis adjustment, and a court could sustain such a challenge.We have entered into a Tax Receivable Agreement ("TRA") with the former unitholders of D&P Acquisitions that provides for the payment by us to them of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we realize as a result of (i) D&P Acquisitions' tax basis in its goodwill and similar intangible assets on the date of the redemption, including any portion of that tax basis arising from its liabilities on the date of the redemption and (ii) the tax basis adjustments referred to above. While the actual amount of the adjusted tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the basis of our proportionate share of D&P Acquisitions' assets on the dates of exchanges, the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our Class A common stock at the time of each exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the deductions and other adjustments to taxable income to which D&P Acquisitions is entitled, the amount of liabilities of D&P Acquisitions in existence on the date of the redemption and future exchanges, and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that during the anticipated term of the TRA, the payments that we may make to the former unitholders of D&P Acquisitions could be substantial. Payments under the TRA will give rise to additional tax benefits and therefore to additional potential payments under the TRA. In addition, the TRA will provide for interest accrued from the due date (without extensions) of the corresponding tax return to the date of payment under the agreement.Were the IRS to challenge a tax basis adjustment, or other deductions or adjustments to taxable income of D&P Acquisitions, the former unitholders of D&P Acquisitions will not reimburse us for any payments that may previously have been made under the TRA, except that excess payments made to a former unitholder are netted against payments otherwise to be made, if any, after our determination of such excess. As a result, in certain circumstances we could make payments to the former unitholders of D&P Acquisitions under the TRA in excess of our cash tax savings. Our ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis adjustment, or other deductions or adjustments to taxable income of D&P Acquisitions, and the payments to be made under this agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed above, including the timing and amount of our future income.Risks Related to Our Class A Common StockThe market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholdersThe market price of our Class A common stock has been highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future. In addition, the trading volume in our Class A common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our Class A common stock declines significantly, stockholders may be unable to sell their Class A common stock at or above their purchase price, if at all. We cannot make any assertions that the market price of our Class A common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our Class A common stock or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Class A common stock include variations in our quarterly operating results; failure to meet our earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or the investment management industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our Class A common stock; additions or departures of our executive officers and other key management personnel; adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; actions by 23 stockholders; changes in market valuations of similar companies; speculation in the press or investment community; changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; adverse publicity about the financial advisory industry generally or individual scandals, specifically; and general market and economic conditions.Our Class A common stock price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale, including sale of employee owned restricted stock upon vestingThe market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our Class A common stock or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. For example, entities affiliated with Lovell Minnick Partners and Vestar Capital Partners owned 2.3% and 4.3%, respectively, of outstanding Class A common stock at December 31, 2012. Our employees also owned 4,891 restricted stock awards and units, and 442 performance-based restricted stock awards and units at December 31, 2012. Subject to forfeiture provisions, these awards vest and could potentially be sold at various times through 2016.Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in controlOur certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by permitting our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations, and placing limitations on convening stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.