Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. Risks Related to the Current Environment and Recent Developments Recent instability in the financial markets and global economy may affect our access to capital and the success of our collection efforts which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and revenue. The stress experienced by global capital markets began in the second half of 2007, substantially increased during the second half of 2008, and has continued throughout 2009, 2010 and 2011. Concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with low business and consumer confidence and high unemployment, have created a challenging economic environment. This challenging environment has adversely affected the ability and willingness of consumers to pay their debts and resulted in a weaker collection environment in 2009, 2010 and 2011. The ability and willingness of consumers to pay their debts could continue to be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, collections and revenue. Further deterioration in economic conditions in the United States may also lead to higher rates of personal bankruptcy filings. Defaulted consumer loans that we service or purchase are generally unsecured, and we may be unable to collect these loans in the case of personal bankruptcy of a consumer. Increases in bankruptcy filings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, collections and revenue. Continued or further credit market dislocations or sustained market downturns may also reduce the ability of lenders to originate new credit, limiting our ability to service defaulted consumer loans in the future. We are currently in compliance with all of our debt covenants, but the future impact on our operations and financial projections from the challenging economic and business environment may impact our ability to meet our debt covenants in the future. Further, increased financial pressure on the distressed consumer may result in additional regulatory restrictions on our operations and increased litigation filed against us. We are unable to predict the likely duration or severity of the current 13 Table of Contents disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs and access capital. The current status of global financial and credit markets exposes us to a variety of risks. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for a couple of years. Disruptions in the credit markets make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses and debt service obligations. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to limit our investment in growth opportunities or curtail operations. The principal sources of our liquidity are cash flows from operations, bank borrowings, and equity and debt offerings. As a result of the global financial crisis, there is a risk that one or more lenders in our senior credit facility syndicate could be unable to meet contractually obligated borrowing requests in the future. In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions and the general availability of credit. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Concerns regarding the downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poor’s lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America from AAA to AA+. While U.S. lawmakers reached agreement to raise the federal debt ceiling on August 2, 2011, the downgrade reflected Standard & Poor’s view that the fiscal consolidation plan within that agreement fell short of what would be necessary to stabilize the U.S. government’s medium term debt dynamics. This downgrade could have material adverse impacts on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and throughout the world and, in turn, the market’s anticipation of these impacts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. Because of the unprecedented nature of negative credit rating actions with respect to U.S. government obligations, the ultimate impacts on global markets and our business, financial condition and liquidity are unpredictable and may not be immediately apparent. In addition, global markets and economic conditions have been negatively impacted by the ability of certain European Union (“EU”) member states to service their sovereign debt obligations. The continued uncertainty over the outcome of the EU governments’ financial support programs and the possibility that other EU member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets and negatively impact our business, financial condition and liquidity. There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. In response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the Federal Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken actions and may take further actions to address the financial crisis. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on the financial markets. Risks Related to our Business Our business is dependent on our ability to grow internally. Our business is dependent on our ability to grow internally, which is dependent upon: · our ability to retain existing clients and expand our existing client relationships; and · our ability to attract new clients. Our ability to retain existing clients and expand those relationships is subject to a number of risks, including the risk that: · we fail to maintain the quality of services we provide to our clients; 14 Table of Contents · we fail to maintain the level of attention expected by our clients; · we fail to successfully leverage our existing client relationships to sell additional services; and · we fail to provide competitively priced services. Our ability to attract new clients is subject to a number of risks, including: · the market acceptance of our service offerings; · the quality and effectiveness of our sales force; and · the competitive factors within the BPO industry. If our efforts to retain and expand our client relationships and to attract new clients do not prove effective, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We compete with a large number of providers in the ARM and CRM industries. This competition could have a materially adverse effect on our future financial results. We compete with a large number of companies in the industries in which we provide services. In the ARM industry, we compete with other sizable corporations in the U.S. and abroad such as iQor, Inc., Alliance One and GC Services LP, as well as many regional and local firms. In the CRM industry, we compete with large customer care outsourcing providers such as Convergys Corporation, Sitel Worldwide Corporation, Sykes Enterprises, Inc., TeleTech Holdings, Inc., and West Corporation. We may lose business to competitors that offer more diversified services, have greater financial and other resources and/or operate in broader geographic areas than we do. We may also lose business to regional or local firms who are able to use their proximity to or contacts at local clients as a marketing advantage. In addition, many companies perform the BPO services offered by us in-house. Many larger clients retain multiple BPO providers, which exposes us to continuous competition in order to remain a preferred provider. Because of this competition, in the future we may have to reduce our fees to remain competitive and this competition could have a materially adverse effect on our future financial results. Many of our clients are concentrated in the financial services, telecommunications, healthcare and retail and commercial sectors. If any of these sectors performs poorly or if there are any adverse trends in these sectors it could materially adversely affect us. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we derived 24.5 percent of our revenue from clients in the financial services sector, 19.0 percent of our revenue from clients in the telecommunications industry, 14.5 percent of our revenue from clients in the healthcare sector, and 13.1 percent from clients in the retail and commercial sector. If any of these sectors performs poorly, clients in these sectors may do less business with us, or they may elect to perform the services provided by us in-house. If there are any trends in any of these sectors to reduce or eliminate the use of third-party BPO service providers, it could harm our business and results of operations. We have international operations and utilize foreign sources of labor, and various factors relating to our international operations, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, could adversely affect our results of operations. Approximately 6% of our 2011 revenues were derived from clients in Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia. Political or economic instability in Canada, the United Kingdom or Australia could have an adverse impact on our results of operations due to diminished revenues in these countries. Our future revenue, costs of operations and profitability could also be affected by a number of other factors related to our international operations, including changes in economic conditions from country to country, changes in a country’s political condition, trade protection measures, licensing and other legal requirements, and local tax or foreign exchange issues. Unanticipated currency fluctuations in the Canadian Dollar, British Pound, Euro or the Australian Dollar could lead to lower reported consolidated results of operations due to the translation of these currencies into U.S. dollars when we consolidate our financial results. We provide ARM and CRM services to our U.S. clients utilizing foreign sources of labor through call centers in Canada, India, the Philippines, Barbados, Antigua, Australia, Panama, Mexico and Guatemala. Any political or economic instability in these countries could result in our having to replace or reduce these labor sources, which may increase our labor costs and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies of the countries in which we operate could increase our cost of doing business in those countries. In addition, we expect to expand our operations into other countries and, accordingly, will face similar risks with respect to the costs of doing business in such countries including as a result of any decreases in the value of 15 Table of Contents the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies of such countries. There is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully hedge our foreign currency exposure in the future. We seek growth opportunities for our business in parts of the world where we have had little or no prior experience. International expansion into new markets with different cultures and laws poses additional risks and costs, including the risk that we will not be able to obtain the required permits, comply with local laws and regulations, hire, train and maintain a workforce, and obtain and maintain physical facilities in a culture and under laws that we are not familiar with. In addition, we may have to customize certain of our collection techniques to work with a different consumer base in a different regulatory environment. Also, we may have to revise certain of our analytical portfolio techniques as we apply them in different countries. We are dependent on our employees and a higher turnover rate would have a material adverse effect on us. We are dependent on our ability to attract, hire and retain qualified employees. The BPO industry, by its nature, is labor intensive and experiences a high employee turnover rate. Many of our employees receive modest hourly wages and some of these employees are employed on a part-time basis. A higher turnover rate among our employees would increase our recruiting and training costs and could materially adversely impact the quality of services we provide to our clients. If we were unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of employees, we would be forced to limit our growth or possibly curtail our operations. Growth in our business will require us to recruit and train qualified personnel at an accelerated rate from time to time. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees to meet the needs of our business or to support our growth. If we are unable to do so, our results of operations could be harmed. Any increase in hourly wages, costs of employee benefits or employment taxes could also have a materially adverse affect on our results of operations. If the employees at any of our offices voted to join a labor union, it could increase our costs and possibly result in a loss of customers. Although there have been efforts in the past, we are currently not aware of any union organizing efforts at any of our facilities. However, if our employees are successful in organizing a labor union at any of our locations, it could further increase labor costs, decrease operating efficiency and productivity in the future, result in office closures, and result in a loss of customers. If we are not able to respond to technological changes in telecommunications and computer systems in a timely manner, we may not be able to remain competitive. Our success depends in large part on our sophisticated telecommunications and computer systems. We use these systems to identify and contact large numbers of debtors and record the results of our collection efforts, as well as to provide customer service to our clients’ customers. If we are not able to respond to technological changes in telecommunications and computer systems in a timely manner, we may not be able to remain competitive. We have made a significant investment in technology to remain competitive and we anticipate that it will be necessary to continue to do so in the future. Telecommunications and computer technologies are changing rapidly and are characterized by short product life cycles, so we must anticipate technological developments. If we are not successful in anticipating, managing, or adopting technological changes on a timely basis or if we do not have the capital resources available to invest in new technologies, our business could be materially adversely affected. We are highly dependent on our telecommunications and computer systems. As noted above, our business is highly dependent on our telecommunications and computer systems. These systems could be interrupted by terrorist acts, natural disasters, power losses, computer viruses, or similar events. Our business is also materially dependent on services provided by various local and long distance telephone companies. If our equipment or systems cease to work or become unavailable, or if there is any significant interruption in telephone services, we may be prevented from providing services. Because we generally recognize revenue and generate operating cash flow primarily through ARM collections and providing CRM services, any failure or interruption of services and collections would mean that we would continue to incur payroll and other expenses without any corresponding income. 16 Table of Contents An increase in communication rates or a significant interruption in communication service could harm our business. Our ability to offer services at competitive rates is highly dependent upon the cost of communication services provided by various local and long distance telephone companies. Any change in the telecommunications market that would affect our ability to obtain favorable rates on communication services could harm our business. Moreover, any significant interruption in communication service or developments that could limit the ability of telephone companies to provide us with increased capacity in the future could harm existing operations and prospects for future growth. We may seek to make strategic acquisitions of companies. Acquisitions involve additional risks that may adversely affect us. From time to time, we may seek to make acquisitions of businesses that provide BPO services. We may be unable to make acquisitions if suitable businesses that provide BPO services are not available at favorable prices due to increased competition for these businesses. We may have to borrow money, incur liabilities, or sell or issue stock to pay for future acquisitions and we may not be able to do so on terms favorable to us, or at all. Additional borrowings and liabilities may have a materially adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. If we issue stock for all or a portion of the purchase price for future acquisitions, our stockholders’ ownership interest may be diluted. Our common stock is not publicly traded and potential sellers may be unwilling to accept equity in a privately held company as payment for the sale of their business. If potential sellers are not willing to accept our common stock as payment for the sale of their business, we may be required to use more of our cash resources, if available, in order to continue our acquisition strategy. Completing acquisitions involves a number of risks, including diverting management’s attention from our daily operations, other additional management, operational and financial resources, system conversions and the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition relationships with customers, suppliers and employees. We might not be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions into our business or operate the acquired businesses profitably, and we may be subject to unanticipated problems and liabilities of acquired companies. Our success depends on our senior management team and if we are not able to retain them, it could have a materially adverse effect on us. We are highly dependent upon the continued services and experience of our senior management team. We depend on the services of the members of our senior management team to, among other things, continue the development and implementation of our growth strategies, and maintain and develop our client relationships. Goodwill and other intangible assets represented 56.8 percent of our total assets at December 31, 2011. If the goodwill or the other intangible assets, primarily our customer relationships and trade names, are deemed to be impaired, we may need to take a charge to earnings to write-down the goodwill or other intangibles to their fair value. Our balance sheet includes goodwill, which represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair market value of the net assets of acquired businesses based on their respective fair values at the date of acquisition. Trade names primarily represent the fair value of the NCO name, which is an indefinite-lived intangible asset. Other intangibles are composed of customer relationships, which represent the information and regular contact we have with our clients, and non-compete agreements. Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment. The test for impairment uses a fair value based approach, whereby if the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill is less than its carrying amount, goodwill would be considered impaired. The trade name intangible asset is also reviewed for impairment on an annual basis. As a result of the annual impairment testing, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $176.1 million in the ARM segment and trade name impairment charges of $7.6 million in 2011. In 2010 and 2009, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $57.0 million and $24.8 million, respectively, in the CRM segment. If our goodwill or trade name are deemed to be further impaired, we will need to take an additional charge to earnings in the future to write-down the asset to its fair value. We make significant assumptions to estimate the future revenue and cash flows used to determine the fair value of our reporting units. These assumptions include future growth rates, profitability, discount factors, market comparables, future tax rates, and other factors. Variations in any of these assumptions could result in materially different calculations 17 Table of Contents of impairment amounts. If the expected revenue and cash flows are not realized, additional impairment losses may be recorded in the future. Our other intangible assets, consisting of customer relationships and non-compete agreements, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. For example, the loss of a larger client could require a review of the customer relationship for impairment. We made significant assumptions to estimate the future cash flows used to determine the fair value of the customer relationship. If we lost a significant customer relationship, the future cash flows expected to be generated by the customer relationship would be less than the carrying amount, and an impairment loss may be recorded. As of December 31, 2011, our balance sheet included goodwill, trade name and other intangibles that represented 33.8 percent, 8.2 percent and 14.8 percent of total assets, respectively. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data could expose us to protracted and costly litigation, penalties and may cause us to lose clients. Our business involves access to and transmission of information about our employees, our clients and customers of our clients. We are reliant on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store such electronic data. Security breaches of this infrastructure could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We are also required at times to manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or customer data. As a result, we are subject to numerous federal and state laws and regulations designed to protect this information. While we take measures to protect the security and privacy of this information and to prevent unauthorized access, it is possible that our security controls over personal data and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable information. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer data, whether through system failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems, whether by our employees or third parties, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results and comply with the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As a result, investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which could adversely affect our business and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, referred to as Section 404, we are required to include in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our management’s report on internal control over financial reporting. Currently, we are not required to include a report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our internal controls because we are a “non-accelerated filer” under SEC rules; therefore, you do not have the benefit of an independent review of our internal controls. While we have reported no “material weaknesses” in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, we cannot guarantee that we will not have any “material weaknesses” in the future. Compliance with the requirements of Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming. If in the future we fail to complete this evaluation in a timely manner, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, any failure to establish an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures could cause our current and potential investors and customers to lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which could adversely affect our business. Terrorist attacks, war and threats of attacks and war may adversely impact our results of operations, revenue and profitability. Terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad, as well as war and threats of war or actual conflicts involving the United States or other countries in which we operate, may adversely impact our operations, including affecting our ability to collect our clients’ accounts receivable. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease. They could also result in an adverse effect on the economies of the United States and other countries in which we operate. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, collections and revenue. 18 Table of Contents Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses. From time to time, we may be party to certain derivative transactions, such as interest rate swap contracts and foreign exchange contracts, with financial institutions to hedge against certain financial risks. Changes in the fair value of these derivative financial instruments that are not cash flow hedges are reported in income, and accordingly could materially affect our reported income in any period. Moreover, in the light of current economic uncertainty and potential for financial institution failures, we may be exposed to the risk that our counterparty in a derivative transaction may be unable to perform its obligations as a result of being placed in receivership or otherwise. In the event that a counterparty to a material derivative transaction is unable to perform its obligations thereunder, we may experience material losses that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to our ARM Business We are subject to business-related risks specific to the ARM business. Some of those risks are: Most of our ARM contracts do not require clients to place accounts with us, may be terminated on 30 or 60 days notice, and are on a contingent fee basis. We cannot guarantee that existing clients will continue to use our services at historical levels, if at all. Under the terms of most of our ARM contracts, clients are not required to give accounts to us for collection and usually have the right to terminate our services on 30 or 60 days notice. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that existing clients will continue to use our services at historical levels, if at all. In addition, most of these contracts provide that we are entitled to be paid only when we collect accounts. Therefore, for these contracts, we can only recognize revenues upon the collection of funds on behalf of clients. If we fail to comply with government regulation of the collections industry, it could result in the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct business. The collections industry is regulated under various U.S. federal and state, Canadian, United Kingdom and Australian laws and regulations. Many states, as well as Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia, require that we be licensed as a debt collection company. The Federal Trade Commission, referred to as the FTC, has the authority to investigate consumer complaints against debt collection companies and to recommend enforcement actions and seek monetary penalties. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it could result in fines as well as the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct collections, which would materially adversely affect us. State regulatory authorities have similar powers. If such matters resulted in further investigations and subsequent enforcement actions, we could be subject to fines as well as the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct collections, which would materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, new federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, or changes in the ways these rules or laws are interpreted or enforced, could limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. If we expand our international operations, we may become subject to additional government controls and regulations in other countries, which may be stricter or more burdensome than those government controls and regulations to which we are currently subject. Several of the industries we serve are also subject to varying degrees of government regulation. Although our clients are generally responsible for complying with these regulations, we could be subject to various enforcement or private actions for our failure, or the failure of our clients, to comply with these regulations. Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act became law. The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation and supervision of the financial services industry, including the formation of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities. As a result, the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business cannot be determined at this time. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. 19 Table of Contents The costs and management time and attention associated with litigation could result in a negative impact to our financial results. We are subject to lawsuits, claims and governmental investigations arising out of the normal conduct of our business. We cannot predict whether any material lawsuits, claims, or investigations may arise in the future. Regardless of the outcome of any future actions, claims, or investigations, we may incur substantial defense costs and such actions may cause a disruption of management’s attention to the day-to-day operations of the business. Also, it is possible that we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, or financial condition. Risks Related to our CRM Business We are subject to business-related risks specific to the CRM business. Some of those risks are: The CRM division relies on a few key clients for a significant portion of its revenues. The loss of any of these clients or their failure to pay us could reduce revenues and adversely affect results of operations. The CRM division is characterized by substantial revenues from a few key clients. While no individual CRM client represented more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenue, we are exposed to customer concentration within this division. Most of these clients are not contractually obligated to continue to use our services at historic levels or at all. If any of these clients were to significantly reduce the amount of service, for example due to business volume fluctuations, mergers and acquisitions and/or performance issues, fail to pay, or terminate the relationship altogether, our CRM business could be harmed. Government regulation of the CRM industry and the industries we serve may increase our costs and restrict the operation and growth of our CRM business. The CRM services industry is subject to an increasing amount of regulation in the United States and Canada. In the United States, the FCC places restrictions on unsolicited automated telephone calls to residential telephone subscribers by means of automatic telephone dialing systems, prerecorded or artificial voice messages and telephone fax machines, and requires CRM firms to develop a “do not call” list and to train their CRM personnel to comply with these restrictions. The FTC regulates both general sales practices and telemarketing specifically and has broad authority to prohibit a variety of advertising or marketing practices that may constitute “unfair or deceptive acts or practices.” Most of the statutes and regulations in the United States allow a private right of action for the recovery of damages or provide for enforcement by the FTC, state attorneys general or state agencies permitting the recovery of significant civil or criminal penalties, costs and attorneys’ fees in the event that regulations are violated. The Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission enforces rules regarding unsolicited communications using automatic dialing and announcing devices, live voice and fax. We cannot assure you that we will be in compliance with all applicable regulations at all times. We also cannot assure you that new laws, if enacted, will not adversely affect or limit our current or future operations. Several of the industries we serve, particularly the insurance, financial services and telecommunications industries, are subject to government regulation. We could be subject to a variety of private actions or regulatory enforcement for our failure or the failure of our clients to comply with these regulations. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if the effect of government regulation of the industries we serve is to reduce the demand for our CRM services or expose us to potential liability. We, and our employees who sell insurance products, are required to be licensed by various state insurance commissions for the particular type of insurance product sold and to participate in regular continuing education programs. Our participation in these insurance programs requires us to comply with certain state regulations, changes in which could materially increase our operating costs associated with complying with these regulations. Risks Related to our Debt Structure Our substantial leverage and significant debt service obligations could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations and operate our business. We are highly leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. Our financial performance could be affected by our substantial leverage. At December 31, 2011, our total indebtedness was $865.6 million, and we had $21.8 million of borrowing capacity under the revolving portion of our senior credit facility. On April 3, 2011, we entered into a $795 million senior secured first lien credit facility, consisting of a $675 million term loan that matures in 2018 and a $120 million revolving credit facility that matures in 2017 (the “First Lien Facility”) and a $200 million second lien term loan that matures in 2018 (the “Second Lien Facility” and, collectively with the First Lien Facility, the “New Facilities”). Borrowings under the New Facilities were used to repay our existing senior credit facility and our existing senior and subordinated notes. We may also incur additional 20 Table of Contents indebtedness in the future. This high level of indebtedness could have important negative consequences to us, including: · we may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; · we will need to use all, or a substantial portion, of our available cash flow to pay interest and principal on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities; · our borrowings under our New Facilities have variable rates of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; · our debt level increases our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions; · our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry in general; · our substantial amount of debt and the amount we must pay to service our debt obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · our customers may react adversely to our significant debt level and seek or develop alternative suppliers; and · our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments which, among other things, require us to maintain specified financial ratios and limit our ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. Our high level of indebtedness requires that we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of cash to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures or other general corporate or business activities, including future acquisitions. In addition, all of our indebtedness under the New Facilities bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, debt service on our variable-rate debt will rise, which would adversely affect our cash flow. We may employ hedging strategies to help reduce the impact of fluctuations in interest rates. The portion of our variable rate debt that is not hedged will be subject to changes in interest rates. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and meet our other ongoing liquidity needs and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may be unsuccessful. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations and to fund our planned capital expenditures and other ongoing liquidity needs, depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or future borrowings may not be available to us under our First Lien Facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We may be unable to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may be unsuccessful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our New Facilities restrict our ability to use the proceeds from certain asset sales. We may be unable to consummate those asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices that we believe are fair and proceeds that we do receive may be inadequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. 21 Table of Contents Despite our current leverage, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks that we and our subsidiaries face. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the New Facilities do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. The revolving credit portion of our First Lien Facility provides commitments of up to $120 million. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. Our New Facilities contain a number of restrictive covenants which will limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. Our New Facilities, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, operating and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Such restrictions affect or will affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: · incur additional indebtedness; · create liens; · pay dividends and make other distributions in respect of our capital stock; · redeem our capital stock; · make certain investments or certain other restricted payments; · sell certain kinds of assets; · enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; and · effect mergers or consolidations. In addition, our New Facilities include other more restrictive covenants. The New Facilities also require us to achieve certain financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. The restrictions contained in our New Facilities could: · limit our ability to plan for or react to market or economic conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and · adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under the New Facilities. If an event of default occurs under the New Facilities, the lenders could elect to: · declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable; and/or · require us to apply all of our available cash to repay the borrowings. The lenders will also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further financing. If we were unable to repay or otherwise refinance these borrowings when due, our lenders could sell the collateral securing the New Facilities, which constitutes substantially all of our and our domestic subsidiaries’ assets. We are a holding company and we depend upon cash from our subsidiaries to service our debt. If we do not receive cash distributions, dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to meet out debt service obligations. We are a holding company and all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, we are dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of, and cash distributions, dividends and other payments from, our subsidiaries to provide the funds necessary to meet our debt service obligations. If we do not receive such cash distributions, dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to pay the principal or interest on our outstanding debt. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 