ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our Results of Operations are Significantly Dependent on Economic Conditions and Related Uncertainties Banking is affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. The current national recession is now being felt in the Delaware Valley region. As a result of the downturn in the economy, among other factors, we saw a significant increase in delinquent and non-performing loans during 2008 as well as declines in property values of the collateral securing loans we have made. The negative economic factors being experienced in our market area could continue to have adverse effects upon our operations. We are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties in the Delaware Valley because we derive substantially all of our loans, deposits and other business from the greater Philadelphia region in eastern Pennsylvania and contiguous counties in New Jersey and Delaware. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with a continuing and prolonged decline in the national or local economies. Changes in interest rates also could adversely affect our net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on our operations, as discussed further in the risk factors below. 33 Table of Contents Our Allowance for Losses on Loans May Not Be Adequate to Cover Probable Losses We have established an allowance for loan losses based upon various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. Since we must use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and increases in the allowance may become necessary in the future. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may also need to significantly increase our provision for loan losses, particularly if one or more of our larger loans or credit relationships becomes delinquent. In addition, federal regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. During the year ended December 31, 2008, our provision for loan losses was $9.8 million compared to $457,000 for the year ended December 31, 2007. The provision during 2008 was made upon consideration of, among other factors, a recently completed examination by the FDIC as well as management’s further review of certain delinquent and impaired construction and commercial real estate loans. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 49.35% of non-performing loans and 1.51% of total loans at December 31, 2008. Our Loans are Concentrated to Borrowers In Our Market Area At December 31, 2008, the preponderance of our total loans were to individuals and/or secured by properties located in our market area of the Delaware Valley region. We have relatively few loans outside of our market. As a result, we have a greater risk of loan defaults and losses in the event of an economic downturn in our market area as adverse economic changes may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayment of their loans. During the second half of 2008 and continuing into 2009, the Delaware Valley region has experienced a rise in unemployment as well as certain declines in real estate values, both residential and commercial. The decline in real estate values has adversely affected the value of certain collateral securing loans in our portfolio. Continuing increases in unemployment or declines in collateral values could be a factor requiring us to make additional provisions to the allowance for loan losses, which would have a negative impact on net income. Additionally, if we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Market Rates of Interest May Hurt Profitability Interest rates have recently reached historically low levels. It is likely that, over time, interest rates will increase to what have historically been considered more normal levels. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest expense paid on our liabilities. As a result, Abington Bank may experience a narrowing or “compression” of our net interest spread, which is the difference between the average yield earned on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Abington Bank’s net interest spread was 2.21% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 1.94% and 2.13% for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, increases in market rates of interest could adversely affect our net portfolio value. In the event of an immediate and sustained 200 basis point increase in interest rates, Abington Bank’s net portfolio value, which is the present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts, would decrease by $10.0 million or 4.87%. Under the same circumstances, our net interest income would be expected to decrease by $1.2 million or 4.17%. 34 Table of Contents Competition for Core Deposits Is Increasing At December 31, 2008, $411.3 million, or 61.8% of our total deposits were certificates of deposit, also known as time deposits, and of that amount $228.0 million or 55.4% of our total certificates of deposit, were “jumbo” certificates of $100,000 or more. At December 31, 2008 low-cost “core deposits” comprised 38.2% of our average total deposits compared to 32.0% and 33.7% for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our success in raising core deposits during 2008 was partially a result of the dramatic fall in interest rates during the year, which caused the return available on time deposits relative to other deposit products, such as core deposits, or other investments to decrease. However, as interest rates rise from their present levels, it is likely that a portion of our customers will transfer significant amounts of their deposits from core deposits to time deposits. In addition, as competition for core deposits continues to increase, it is possible that the percentage of our total deposits that are core deposits will shrink. In today’s economic landscape, banks face competition for core deposits not only from traditional competitors such as other banks and credit unions, but also from investment companies that have reorganized as bank holding companies in the wake of the recent turmoil on Wall Street. If more of our customers invest in time deposits, or if core deposits are lost to competition, the average rate Abington Bank pays on its deposits will be relatively higher. This will have the effect of narrowing our net interest spread and net interest margin relative to the levels at which they might have been had a higher percentage of our deposits been in core deposits. This could aversely affect our profitability. The average rate we paid on our interest-bearing deposits was 2.85% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to 3.81% and 3.39% for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our Portfolio of Loans With a Higher Risk of Loss Is Increasing In recent years, we have increased our originations of construction loans and commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate loans. These loans have a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans. The aggregate of construction loans and commercial real estate and multi-family residential loans has increased from $157.9 million or 35.4 % of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2004 to $321.6 million or 39.1% of the total loan portfolio at December 31, 2008. Construction loans and commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate loans all generally have a higher risk of loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of a business or the underlying property. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had $23.2 million and $1.4 million, respectively, of commercial real estate and multi-family residential loans and construction loans that were considered non-performing. These loans were deemed to be impaired and placed on non-accrual status. The impaired loans at December 31, 2008 were comprised of five construction and six commercial real estate loans, the majority of which were outstanding to a group of interrelated borrowers. The Building of Market Share Through our Branching Strategy Could Cause Our Expenses to Increase Faster than Revenues We intend to continue to build market share through our branching strategy. We opened one new branch in 2008 after opening four branches in 2007. There are costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch may negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, we have no assurance our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. 35 Table of Contents We are Dependent Upon the Services of Our Management Team Our future success and profitability depend upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management. We are especially dependent on a limited number of key management personnel. The loss of our chief executive officer or other senior executive officers could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are Subject to Extensive Regulation Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Operations We are subject to extensive federal and state governmental supervision and regulation, which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. In addition, we are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as changes in regulations, governmental policies and accounting principles. The effects of any such potential changes cannot be predicted but could adversely affect our business and operations in the future. Given the current status of the national economy and the well publicized financial and operational difficulties at many financial institutions, there is potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending, liquidity standards, capital requirements and other aspects of our banking business. Strong Competition Within our Market Area May Limit our Growth and Profitability Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Our Deposit Insurance Premium Could Be Substantially Higher in the Future Which Would Have an Adverse Effect on Our Future Earnings. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits, over a five-year period, at any time that the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%. The recent failures of certain depository institutions have significantly increased the Deposit Insurance Fund’s loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio to 0.40% as of December 31, 2008, 79 basis points below the reserve ratio as of March 31, 2008. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years, which may result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC released a seven-year recapitalization plan and a proposal to raise premiums to recapitalize the fund. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC proposed to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. Assessment rates would increase by seven basis points across the range of risk weightings. Changes to the risk-based assessment system would include increasing premiums for institutions that rely significantly on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities, and lowering premiums for smaller institutions with very high capital levels. 36 Table of Contents On February 27, 2009, the FDIC also adopted an interim rule with request for comments imposing a 20 basis point emergency special assessment on insured institutions on June 30, 2009, payable on September 30, 2009. The interim rule also permits the FDIC to impose an additional special assessment after June 30, 2009, of up to 10 basis points if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance. However, FDIC Chairman Bair has indicated in a letter to Senate Banking Committee Chairman Dodd that, if the U.S. Congress passes a bill increasing the FDIC’s authority to borrow from the U.S. Department of Treasury, the FDIC would reduce the proposed special assessment from 20 to 10 basis points. The U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation on such an increase in borrowing authority. The Actions of the U.S. Government for the Purpose of Stabilizing the Financial Markets, or Market Response to Those Actions, May Not Achieve the Intended Effect, and Our Results of Operations Could Be Adversely Effected. In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the U.S. Congress recently enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”). The EESA provides the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury with the authority to establish a Troubled Asset Relief Program to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations or other instruments that are based on or related to such mortgages, that in each case was originated or issued on or before March 14, 2008, as well as any other financial instrument that the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, determines the purchase of which is necessary to promote financial market stability. As of the date hereof, the Treasury has determined not to purchase troubled assets under the program. As part of the EESA, the Treasury Department has developed a Capital Purchase Program to purchase up to $250 billion in senior preferred stock from qualifying financial institutions. The Capital Purchase Program was designed to strengthen the capital and liquidity positions of viable institutions and to encourage banks and thrifts to increase lending to creditworthy borrowers. EESA also increased deposit insurance on most accounts from $100,000 to $250,000 until the end of 2009. Pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC also established a Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program that provides a guarantee for newly-issued senior unsecured debt and non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts at eligible insured institutions. For non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts, a 10 basis point annual rate surcharge will be applied to deposit amounts in excess of $250,000. We have elected not to participate in the Capital Purchase Program but participate in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC modified the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program to allow participating entities, with the FDIC’s permission, to also issue mandatory convertible debt. The U.S. Congress or federal banking regulatory agencies could adopt additional regulatory requirements or restrictions in response to the threats to the financial system and such changes may adversely affect the operations of Company and the Bank. In addition, the EESA may not have the intended beneficial impact on the financial markets or the banking industry. To the extent the market does not respond favorably to the Troubled Asset Relief Program or the program does not function as intended, our prospects and results of operations could be adversely effected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 37 Table of Contents 