Item 1A Risk Factors 15 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 29 Item 2 Properties 29 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 29 Item 4 Removed and Reserved 29 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 30 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 34 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 36 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 64 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 67 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 68 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 68 Item 9B Other Information 70 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 70 Item 11 Executive Compensation 72 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 72 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 72 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 72 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 73 SIGNATURES 75 EXHIBIT INDEX 77 EX-4.2 EX-4.3 EX-4.5 EX-10.23 EX-10.24 EX-21.1 EX-23.1 EX-31.1 EX-31.2 EX-32.1 EX-32.2 Table of Contents WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, U.S.A. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public from the SEC’s internet site at http://www.sec.gov. On our Internet website, http://www.lpl.com, we post the following recent filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Hard copies of all such filings are available free of charge by request via email (investor.relations@lpl.com), telephone (617) 897-4574, or mail (LPL Financial Investor Relations at One Beacon Street, 22nd Floor, Boston, MA 02108). The information contained or incorporated on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. When we use the terms “LPLIH”, “we”, “us”, “our”, and the “firm” we mean LPL Investment Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries, taken as a whole, as well as any predecessor entities, unless the context otherwise indicates. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” — and other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements (regarding future financial position, budgets, business strategy, projected costs, plans, objectives of management for future operations, and other similar matters) that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as “anticipates”, “expects”, “believes”, “plans”, “predicts”, and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and there are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements including, but not limited to, changes in general economic and financial market conditions, fluctuations in the value of assets under management, effects of competition in the financial services industry, changes in the number of our financial advisors and institutions and their ability to effectively market financial products and services, the effect of current, pending and future legislation and regulation and regulatory actions. In particular, you should consider the numerous risks outlined in Part I, Item 1A — “Risk Factors”. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Unless required by law, we will not undertake and we specifically disclaim any obligation to release publicly the result of any revisions which may be made to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of events, whether or not anticipated. In that respect, we wish to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General Corporate Overview We provide an integrated platform of proprietary technology, brokerage and investment advisory services to over 12,400 independent financial advisors and financial advisors at financial institutions (our “advisors”) across the country, enabling them to successfully service their retail investors with unbiased, conflict-free financial advice. In addition, we support approximately 4,000 financial advisors with customized clearing, advisory platforms and technology solutions. Our singular focus is to support our advisors with the front, middle and back-office support they need to serve the large and growing market for independent investment advice, particularly in the mass affluent market (which we define as investors with $100,000-$1,000,000 in investable assets). We believe we are the only company that offers advisors the unique combination of an integrated technology platform, comprehensive self-clearing services and full open architecture access to leading financial products, all delivered in an environment unencumbered by conflicts from product manufacturing, underwriting or market making. For over 20 years we have served the independent advisor market. We currently support the largest independent advisor base and the fourth largest overall advisor base in the United States. Through our advisors, we are also one of the largest distributors of financial products in the United States. Our scale is a substantial competitive advantage and enables us to more effectively attract and retain advisors. Our unique model allows us to invest more resources in our advisors, increasing their revenues and creating a virtuous cycle of growth. We are headquartered in Boston and currently have over 2,500 employees across our locations in Boston, Charlotte and San Diego. Our Business With our focus and scale, we are not only a beneficiary of the secular shift among advisors toward independence, but an active catalyst of this trend. We enable our advisors to provide their clients with high quality independent financial advice and investment solutions, and support our advisors in managing the complexity of their businesses by providing a comprehensive integrated platform of technology and clearing services. We provide these services through an open architecture product platform with no proprietary manufactured products, which enables an unbiased, conflict-free environment. Additionally, we offer our advisors the highest average payout ratios among the five largest U.S. broker-dealers, as ranked by number of advisors, which we believe provides us with an important competitive advantage. Our business is dedicated exclusively to our advisors; we are not a market-maker nor do we offer investment banking or underwriting services. The size of our organization and scalability of our solutions allow us to continually reinvest in our technology and clearing platforms, tailor our services to the needs of our advisors and provide them with an attractive value proposition. We believe that our technology and service platforms allow our advisors to spend more time with their clients and enhance and grow their businesses. Our revenues are derived primarily from commissions and fees generated by our advisors. We also generate asset-based fees from our financial product sponsor relationships, our cash sweep programs and omnibus processing and networking services. Under our self-clearing platform, we custody the majority of client assets invested in these products, which includes providing statements, transaction processing and ongoing account management for which we receive a fee. Our Financial Advisors Serving clients in communities across the nation, our advisors build long-term relationships with their clients by guiding them through the complexities of investment decisions, retirement solutions, financial planning and wealth-management. We support the evolution of our advisors’ businesses over time and provide a range of solutions as their needs change. 2 Table of Contents The relationship with our advisors is embodied in our Commitment Creed, which serves as a set of guiding principles for our relationships with our advisors. For more than 20 years it has been ingrained in our culture and reflects our singular focus on the advisors we serve. The size and growth of our business has benefited from this focus. Our advisor base has grown from 3,596 advisors in 2000 to 12,444 as of December 31, 2010, representing a Compound Annual Growth Rate (“CAGR”) of 13.2%. Our historical advisor growth rate does not guarantee that we will attract advisors at comparable rates in the future. Our advisor base includes independent financial advisors, registered investment advisors (“RIAs”) and advisors at small and mid-sized financial institutions. In order to license with us, advisors must meet our stringent requirements which include a thorough review of the advisor’s education, experience, credit and compliance history. These advisors are licensed with our wholly owned subsidiary, LPL Financial LLC (“LPL Financial”) and enter into a registered representative agreement that establishes the duties and responsibilities of each party. Pursuant to the registered representative agreement, each advisor makes a series of representations, including that the advisor will disclose to all customers and prospective customers that the advisor is acting as our registered representative, that all orders for securities will be placed through us, that the advisor will sell only products we have approved and that the advisor will comply with LPL policies and procedures as well as securities rules and regulations. These advisors also agree not to engage in any outside business activity without prior approval from us and not to act as an agent for any of our competitors. In return for a high level of services provided by us, including, among others, transaction processing and technology services we provide to the advisors to support their daily activities, we typically retain a range of 10 to 15 percent of the commission and advisory fee revenue generated by our advisors and pay out the remaining 85 to 90 percent to them. In addition, advisors pay certain fees directly to us relating to technology and platform access, insurance coverage and licensing fees. The registered representative agreement is terminable without cause on 30 days notice and for cause immediately upon notice. Our advisors average over 15 years of industry experience. This substantial industry experience allows us to focus on enhancing our advisors’ businesses without the need for basic training or subsidizing advisors that are new to the industry. Our independent advisors join us from a broad range of firms including wirehouses, regional and insurance broker dealers, banks and other independent firms. Our flexible business platform allows our advisors to choose the most appropriate business model to support their clients, whether they conduct brokerage business, offer brokerage and fee-based services on our corporate RIA platforms or provide fee-based services through their own RIAs. Our independent advisors and RIAs are entrepreneurial independent contractors who market their services through over 4,200 branch offices. They are primarily located in rural and suburban areas and as such are viewed as local providers of independent advice. Approximately 70% of these advisors operate under their own brand name. We approve and assist these advisors with their own branding, marketing and promotion. Among our 12,444 advisors, we believe we are the market leader in providing support to over 2,400 advisors at more than 750 banks and credit unions seeking to provide a broad array of services for their financial advisors. For these institutions, whose core capabilities may not include investment and financial planning services, or who find the technology, infrastructure and regulatory requirements to be cost prohibitive, we provide their financial advisors with the services they need to be successful, allowing the institutions to focus their energy and capital on their core businesses. We also provide support to approximately 4,000 additional financial advisors who are affiliated and licensed with insurance companies. These outsourcing arrangements provide customized clearing, advisory platforms and technology solutions that enable financial advisors at these insurance companies to efficiently provide a breadth of services to their client base. 3 Table of Contents Our Service Value Proposition The core of our business is dedicated to meeting the evolving needs of our advisors and providing the platform and tools to grow and enhance the profitability of their businesses. We support our advisors by providing front, middle and back-office solutions through the four pillars of our distinct value proposition: enabling technology, comprehensive clearing and compliance services, practice management programs and training, and independent research. The comprehensive and automated nature of our offering enables our advisors to focus on their clients while successfully and efficiently managing the complexities of running their own practice. Enabling Technology We provide our technology and service to advisors through BranchNet, our proprietary, integrated technology platform that is server-based and web-accessed. Using the BranchNet workstation, our advisors effectively manage all critical aspects of their businesses while remaining highly efficient and responsive to their clients’ needs. Time-consuming processes, such as account opening and management, document imaging, transaction execution, and account rebalancing, are automated to improve efficiency and accuracy. Substantially all of our advisors utilize BranchNet as their core technology platform. Through BranchNet, our advisors have direct access to a fully-integrated array of tools and support systems, including: • comprehensive account lookup for accounts and direct business data; • straight-through processing of trade orders and account maintenance requests and • secure and reliable data maintenance. In addition to the account management capabilities of BranchNet, the Resource Center, embedded within BranchNet, provides advisors with access to our research, training, compliance and support services and the ability to review products and develop marketing materials, including: • direct access to financial product information, exclusive research commentaries, detailed regulatory requirements, valuable marketing tools, operational details, comprehensive training and technical support; • client management and business development tools; • trading and research tools and • business management resources. Many advisors also subscribe to premium features, such as performance reporting, financial planning and customized websites. Select third-party resources have been integrated into our technology software, enabling seamless access to important tools, broadening our range of offerings and reducing duplicate operational functions. We believe BranchNet allows our advisors to transact and monitor their business more efficiently, lowering operating costs for their business. Once on BranchNet, advisors have the ability to choose which services suit their business plan, purchasing only the services that are needed to grow their business. Comprehensive Clearing and Compliance Services We custody and clear the majority of our advisors’ transactions, providing an enhanced advisor experience and expedited processing capabilities. Our self-clearing platform enables us to better control client data, more efficiently process and report trades, facilitate platform development, reduce costs and ultimately enhance the quality of the services we provide our advisors. Our self-clearing platform also enables us to serve a wider variety of advisors, including RIAs and hybrid RIAs. 4 Table of Contents Because we are self-clearing, we can address all facets of securities transaction processing, including: • order routing, trading support, execution and clearing, and position keeping; • regulatory and tax compliance and reporting and • investment accounting and recordkeeping. All of these services are backed by our service center and operations organizations focused on providing timely, accurate and consistent support, with each employee committed to delivering best in class service. This shared commitment allows us to meet our financial advisors’ and institutions’ needs so they can best serve their clients. In 2010, we launched Service360, a new service paradigm for our top producing advisors. Service360 offers a wide array of organizational support, adopting a team-based approach to service, in which teams are dedicated to a defined set of advisors. This new service structure was fully implemented in December 2010, and now services over 6,700 advisors with timely, accurate and efficient service delivered in a more personal, relationship-focused manner and with greater accountability and ownership on the part of the service teams. We have made sizeable investments in our compliance offering to enable our advisors to run a fully compliant office. Since 2000, our commitment of resources and focus on compliance have enabled us to maintain one of the best regulatory compliance records, based upon the number of regulatory events reported in the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority’s (“FINRA”) BrokerCheck Reports, among the ten largest U.S. broker-dealers, ranked by number of advisors. Several years ago we made the strategic decision to fully integrate our compliance tools into our technology platform to further enhance compliance effectiveness and scalability. Approximately 300 employees assist our advisors through: • training advisors on new products, new FINRA guidelines, compliance tools, security policies and procedures, anti-money laundering and best practices; • review and approval of advertising materials; • technology-enabled surveillance of trading activities and sales practices; • oversight and monitoring of registered investment advisory activities; • securities registration, advisory and insurance licensing of advisors and • audits of branch offices. Practice Management Programs and Training Our practice management programs help our advisors enhance and grow their businesses. Our experience gives us the ability to benchmark the best practices of successful advisors and develop customized recommendations to meet the specific needs of an advisor’s business and market. Because of our scale, we are able to dedicate an experienced group of approximately 100 professionals that work with our advisors to build and better manage their business and client relationships through one-on-one consulting as well as group training. In addition, we hold over 130 conferences and group training events annually for the benefit of our advisors. Our practice management and training services include: • personalized business consulting support that helps advisors enhance the value and operational efficiency of their businesses; • advisory and brokerage consulting to support advisors in growing their businesses with our broad range of products and fee-based offerings, as well as wealth management services to 5 Table of Contents assist advisors serving high net worth clients with comprehensive estate, tax, philanthropic, and financial planning processes; • marketing campaigns and consultation to enable advisors to build awareness of their services and capitalize on opportunities in their local markets; • transition services to help advisors establish independent practices and migrate client accounts to us and • training programs on topics including technology, use of advisory platforms and business development. Independent Research We provide our advisors with integrated access to comprehensive proprietary research on mutual funds, separate accounts, insurance and annuities, asset allocation strategies, financial markets and the economy, among other areas. Our research team consists of 29 professionals with an average of 12 years of industry experience, dedicated to providing unbiased and conflict-free advice. Our research is designed to empower our advisors to give their clients thoughtful advice in an efficient manner. In particular, our research facilitates the growth of our advisory platform through generation of model portfolio and asset allocation overlay services and the distribution of packaged solutions. Our research team actively works with our product due diligence group in screening financial products offered through our platform. Our lack of proprietary products or investment banking services helps ensure that our research remains unbiased and objective. With a focus on performance, service and transparency, our research team utilizes a wide spectrum of available tools to deliver timely perspectives on the ever-changing economic marketplace and products, enabling advisors to help their clients understand and adjust to the latest developments. Through its objective recommendations and portfolio management, the research group helps advisors meet a broad range of investor needs effectively. Our research enables advisors to: • keep abreast of changes in markets and the global economy, through our daily market update call and email, published materials, blogs and media presence; • proactively respond to emerging trends; • leverage the expertise and experience of our research team in building individual investment portfolios that are fully integrated in our technology platform and • seek specific advice through our ASK (accurate, swift and knowledgeable) Research Service Desk, a team of research professionals dedicated exclusively to advisor investment-research inquiries via phone and email. A substantial portion of our research is compliance-approved so that advisors are able to share it with clients when working with them to make investment decisions. Our Economic Value Proposition We offer a compelling economic value proposition that is a key factor in our ability to attract and retain advisors. The independent channels pay advisors a greater share of brokerage commissions and advisory fees than the captive channels — generally 80-90% compared to 30-50%. Because of our scale and efficient operating model, we offer our advisors the highest average payout ratios among the ten largest U.S. broker-dealers, ranked by number of advisors, which we believe provides us with an important competitive advantage. We believe our superior technology and service platforms enable our advisors to operate their practices at a lower cost than other independent advisors. As a result, we believe owners of practices associated with us earn meaningfully more pre-tax profit than owners of practices affiliated with other independent brokerage firms. We attribute this difference in profitability in part to lower fixed costs driven by the need for fewer staff at our associated practices. 6 Table of Contents Finally, as business owners, independent financial advisors, unlike captive advisors, also have the opportunity to build equity in their own businesses. We also believe our solutions enable our financial institutions to be more productive and therefore generate greater profitability relative to other financial institutions supported by third party firms. Our Product Access We do not manufacture any financial products. Instead, we provide our advisors open architecture access to a unique variety of commission, fee-based, cash and money market products and services. Our product due diligence group conducts extensive diligence on substantially all of the new products we offer, including annuities, real estate investment trusts, alternative investments and mutual funds. Our platform provides access to over 8,500 financial products, manufactured by over 400 product sponsors. Typically, we enter into arrangements with these product sponsors pursuant to the sponsor’s standard distribution agreement. The sales and administration of these products are facilitated through BranchNet and Resource Center, which allow our advisors to access client accounts, product information, asset allocation models, investment recommendations, and economic insight as well as perform trade execution. As of December 31, 2010, advisory and brokerage assets totaled $315.6 billion, of which $93.0 billion was in advisory assets. In 2010, brokerage sales were over $26 billion, including over $9 billion in mutual funds and $15 billion in annuities. Advisory sales were over $27 billion, which consisted primarily of mutual funds. As a result of this scale and significant distribution capabilities, we can offer leading products and services with attractive economics to our advisors. Commission-Based Products Commission-based products are those for which we and our advisors receive an upfront commission and, for certain products, a trailing commission. Our brokerage offerings include variable and fixed annuities, mutual funds, general securities, alternative investments, retirement and 529 education savings plans, fixed income and insurance. Our insurance offering is provided through LPL Insurance Associates, Inc. (“LPLIA”), a brokerage general agency which provides personalized advance case design, point-of-sale service and product support for a broad range of life, disability and long-term care products. As of December 31, 2010, the total assets in our commission-based products were approximately $222.6 billion. Fee-Based Advisory Platforms and Support We have been an innovator in fee-based solutions since the introduction of our Strategic Asset Management platform in 1991. Today we have five fee-based advisory platforms that provide centrally managed or customized solutions from which advisors can choose to meet the investment needs of their mass affluent and high net worth clients. The fee structure aligns the interests of our advisors with their clients, while establishing a valuable recurring revenue stream for the advisor and for us. Our fee-based platforms provide access to no-load/load-waived mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, stocks, bonds, conservative option strategies, unit investment trusts and no-load, institutional money managers and multi-manager variable annuities. We also provide third-party equity research and asset-management services as well as fee-based advisory and consulting services to retirement plans. As of December 31, 2010, the total assets in these platforms were $93.0 billion. Cash Sweep Programs We assist our advisors in managing their clients’ cash balances through two primary cash sweep programs depending on account type: a money market sweep vehicle involving multiple money market fund providers and an insured bank deposit sweep vehicle. Our insured bank deposit sweep vehicle 7 Table of Contents allocates client cash balances across multiple non-affiliated banks to provide advisors with up to $1.5 million ($3.0 million joint) of insurance through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). As of December 31, 2010, the total assets in our cash sweep programs, which are held within brokerage and advisory accounts, were approximately $19.1 billion. In addition to the products above, we also offer trust, investment management oversight and custodial services for estates and families through our subsidiary, The Private Trust Company, N.A. (“PTC”). Our Financial Model We have a proven track record of strong financial performance. We have increased our annual Adjusted EBITDA for the past five consecutive years with only one decline in annual revenue in 2009 in conjunction with the major market downturn. We have experienced greater variability in our net income primarily due to amortization of purchased assets and interest expense from our senior secured credit facilities and subordinated notes, a result of our merger transaction in 2005 with TPG Capital and Hellman & Friedman LLC (collectively, the “Majority Holders”), and expenses associated with our acquisition integration and restructuring initiatives. In 2010, we generated a net loss due to equity issuance and other costs related to our initial public offering (“IPO”) that was completed in the fourth quarter. Accordingly, the presentation of net income CAGR is not meaningful. Since 2005, we have grown our net revenues at a 17.2% CAGR, our Adjusted EBITDA at a 16.9% CAGR and our Adjusted Earnings at a 17.1% CAGR. Our historical growth rates do not guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Earnings, to GAAP measures, along with an explanation of these metrics, is provided in Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis”. As we demonstrated during the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, our financial model has inherent resilience, and our overall financial performance is a function of the following favorable characteristics: • Our revenues stem from diverse sources, including advisor-generated commission and advisory fees as well as fees from product manufacturers, recordkeeping, cash sweep balances and other ancillary services. They are not concentrated by advisor, product or geography. For the year ended December 31, 2010, no single relationship with our independent advisor practices, banks, credit unions, or insurance companies accounted for more than 3% of our net revenues, and no single advisor accounted for more than 1% of our net revenues. • Furthermore, a majority of our revenue base is recurring in nature, with over 60% recurring revenue in 2010. • Our expenses are primarily variable, as they consist principally of payouts on advisor-generated revenues. • Our profit margins are stable and should expand over time because we actively manage our general and administrative expenses. • We are able to operate with low capital expenditures and limited capital requirements, and as a result our cash flow is not encumbered. • We generate substantial free cash flow which we reinvest into our business. We have demonstrated the resilience of our financial model through market downturns, particularly in the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009. This inherent resilience is a function of the following dynamics of our business: • A significant proportion of our revenues are not correlated with the equity financial markets, such as software licensing, account and client fees. 8 Table of Contents • The variable component of our cost base is directly linked to revenues generated by our advisors. Furthermore, the payout percentages are tied to advisor productivity levels. • Our general and administrative expenses can be actively managed. Our Competitive Strengths • Significant Scale and Market Leadership Position. We are an established leader in the independent advisor market, which is our core business focus. Our scale enables us to benefit from the following dynamics: • We actively reinvest in our comprehensive technology platform and practice support, which further improves the productivity of our advisors. • As one of the largest distributors of financial products in the United States, we are able to obtain attractive economics from product manufacturers. • Among the ten largest U.S. broker-dealers by number of advisors, we offer the highest average payout ratios to our advisors. The combination of our ability to reinvest in the business and maintain highly competitive payout ratios allows us to attract and retain advisors successfully. This, in turn, drives our growth and leads to a virtuous cycle that reinforces our established scale advantage. • Unique Value Proposition for Independent Advisors. We deliver a comprehensive and integrated suite of products and services to support the practices of our independent advisors. We believe we are the only institution that offers a conflict-free, open architecture and scalable platform. The benefits of our purchasing power lead to high average payouts and greater economics to our advisors. Our platform also creates an entrepreneurial opportunity that empowers independent advisors to build equity in their businesses. This generates a significant opportunity to attract and retain highly qualified advisors who are seeking independence. • Unique Value Proposition for Institutions. We provide solutions to financial institutions, such as regional banks, credit unions and insurers, who seek to provide a broad array of services for their customers. We believe many institutions find the technology, infrastructure and regulatory requirements associated with delivering financial advice to be cost-prohibitive. We provide comprehensive solutions that enable financial advisors at these institutions to offer financial advice. • Ability to Profitably Serve the Mass-Affluent Market. Since inception, our core focus has been on advisors who serve the mass-affluent market. We have designed and integrated all aspects of our platforms and services to profitably meet the needs of these advisors. We believe there is an attractive opportunity in the mass-affluent market, in part because wirehouses have not historically focused on the mass affluent market. We believe our scale position will sustain and strengthen our competitive advantage in the mass-affluent market. • Ability to Serve a Broad Range of Advisor Models. As a result of our integrated technology platform and the resulting flexibility, we are able to attract and retain advisors from multiple channels, including wirehouses, regional broker-dealers and other independent broker-dealers. This platform serves a variety of independent advisor models, including independent financial advisors, RIAs and hybrid-RIAs. Additionally, we are able to give our advisors flexibility in choosing how they conduct their business. This enables us to better retain our existing advisor base by facilitating their ability to transition among independent advisor models as preferences evolve within the market. In addition, although we have grown through our focus on the mass affluent market, the breadth of our platform has facilitated growing penetration of the high net worth market. As of December 31, 2010, our advisors supported accounts with more than $1 million in assets that in the aggregate represented $48.2 billion in advisory and brokerage assets, 17.6% of our total. Although our advisors average production is typically below that of 9 Table of Contents some of the wirehouse channel firms, our array of integrated technology and services can support advisors with significant production and compete directly with wirehouses. • Experienced and Committed Senior Management Team. We have an experienced and committed senior management team that provides stable and long-standing leadership for our business. On average, our senior management has 26 years of industry experience. The team has a track record of delivery and success as demonstrated in the company’s financial performance through the recent market downturn. As the current management team has played a significant role in building out the business, they have a fundamental and thorough understanding of the operations. The management team is aligned with stockholders and holds significant equity ownership in the company. Our Sources of Growth We expect to increase our revenue and profitability by benefiting from favorable industry trends and by executing strategies to accelerate our growth beyond that of the broader markets in which we operate. Favorable Industry Trends • Growth in Investable Assets. According to Cerulli Associates, over the next four years, total assets under management in the United States are anticipated to grow at 8% and retirement assets are expected to grow 6% per year (in part due to the retirement of the baby boomer generation and the resulting assets which are projected to flow out of retirement plans and into individual retirement accounts). In addition, individual retirement account rollovers are projected to grow from $4.6 trillion as of 2010 to $6.2 trillion by 2014. • Increasing Demand for Independent Financial Advice. Retail investors, particularly in the mass affluent market, are increasingly seeking financial advice from independent sources. We are highly focused on helping independent advisors meet the needs of the mass-affluent market, which constitutes a significant and underserved portion of investable assets, according to Cerulli Associates, and we believe presents significant opportunity for growth. • Advisor Migration to Independence. Independent channels are gaining market share from captive channels. We believe that we are not just a beneficiary of this secular shift, but an active catalyst in the movement to independence. • Macroeconomic Trends. As the macroeconomic environment continues to stabilize, we anticipate an appreciation in asset prices and a rise in interest rates from current, historically low levels. We expect that our business will benefit from growth in advisory and brokerage assets as well as increasing asset-based and cash sweep fees. LPL-Specific Growth Opportunities • Attracting New Advisors to Our Platform. We intend to grow the number of advisors — either independent or with financial institutions — who are served by our platform. Based on the number of financial advisors, we have only 3.6% market share of the approximately 334,000 financial advisors in the United States, according to Cerulli Associates, and we have the ability to attract seasoned advisors of any practice size and from any channel, including wirehouses, regional broker-dealers and other independent broker-dealers. Additionally, we are able to support a wide range of business models, including independent financial advisors, RIAs and hybrid-RIAs. This flexibility drives sustainable growth in new advisors who seek to transfer to our platform. We also expect to significantly expand our developing share of the RIA market. • Ramp-up of Newly-Attracted Advisors. We predominately attract experienced advisors who have established practices. In our experience, it takes an average of three years for newly 10 Table of Contents hired advisors to fully re-establish their practices and associated revenues. This seasoning process creates accelerated growth of revenue from new advisors. • Increasing Productivity of Existing Advisor Base. The productivity of advisors increases over time as we enable them to add new clients, gain shares of their clients’ investable assets, and expand their existing practices with additional advisors. We facilitate these productivity improvements by helping our advisors better manage their practices in an increasingly complex environment. • Our Business Model has Inherent Economies of Scale. The largely fixed costs necessary to support our advisors delivers higher marginal profitability as client assets and revenue grow. Historically, this dynamic has been demonstrated through the growth in our operating margins. • Opportunistic Pursuit of Acquisitions. We have a proven history of expanding our business through opportunistic acquisitions. In the past six years, we have successfully completed four transactions. Our scalable business model and operating platform make us an attractive acquirer in a fragmented market. Competition We believe we offer a unique and dedicated value proposition to independent financial advisors and financial institutions who are focused primarily on mass affluent investors. This value proposition is built upon the delivery of our services through our scale, independence and integrated technology, which we believe is not replicated in the industry, and as a result we do not have any direct competitors to our business model. For example, because we do not have any proprietary manufacturing products, we do not view firms that manufacture asset management products and other financial products as competitors. We compete to attract and retain experienced and productive advisors with a variety of financial firms. Within the independent channel, the industry is highly fragmented, comprised primarily of small regional firms that rely on third-party custodians and technology providers to support their operations. Within the captive wirehouse channel, which tends to consist of large nationwide firms with multiple lines of business, competitors include Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, & Smith Incorporated; UBS Financial Services Inc.; Wells Fargo Advisors, LLC; who typically focus on the highly competitive high net worth investor market. Competition for advisors also includes regional firms, such as Edward D. Jones & Co., L.P. and Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. RIAs, who are licensed directly with the SEC and not through a broker-dealer, select third-party firms for custodial services, and competitors include Charles Schwab & Co. and Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC. Our competitors who do not offer a complete solution for advisors are frequently enabled by third-party firms. Pershing LLC, a subsidiary of Bank of New York Mellon, offers custodial services to independent firms who are not self-clearing and to RIAs. Other examples include Albridge Solutions, a subsidiary of PNC Financial Services LLC, Advent Software, Inc. and Morningstar, Inc., who provide an array of technology and research resources. Our advisors compete for clients with financial advisors of brokerage firms, banks, insurance companies, asset management and investment advisory firms. In addition, they also compete with a number of firms offering direct to investor on-line financial services and discount brokerage services, such as Charles Schwab & Co. and Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had 2,583 full-time employees. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements governing their employment with us. Our continued growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to recruit and retain skilled technical sales and professional personnel. We believe that our relationship with our employees is strong. 11 Table of Contents Our Corporate Structure LPL Investment Holdings Inc. is the parent company of our collective businesses. Our original broker-dealer, LPL Financial, was formed in 1989. In 2005, investment funds affiliated with the Majority Holders acquired a majority ownership stake in LPL Investment Holdings Inc., with the remaining interest owned primarily by our founders, senior management and advisors. In recent years we have grown our business through a number of opportunistic acquisitions. We strengthened our position as a leading independent broker-dealer through our acquisition on June 20, 2007 of Pacific Select Group, LLC (renamed LPL Independent Advisor Services Group, LLC) and its wholly owned subsidiaries: Mutual Service Corporation (“MSC”), Associated Financial Group, Inc. (“AFG”), Associated Securities Corp. (“Associated”), Associated Planners Investment Advisory, Inc. (“APIA”) and Waterstone Financial Group, Inc. (“WFG”) (MSC, AFG, Associated, APIA and WFG, are collectively referred to herein as the “Affiliated Entities”). In September of 2009, we consolidated the operations of the Affiliated Entities with those of LPL Financial. The consolidation involved the transfer of securities licenses of certain registered representatives associated with the Affiliated Entities and their client accounts. Following the completion of these transfer activities, the registered representatives and client accounts that transferred are now associated with LPL Financial. On February 5, 2011, Forms BD-W for Associated and WFG were approved by the SEC and as a result, Associated and WFG are no longer registered as broker-dealers. Our acquisitions of UVEST Financial Services Group, Inc. (“UVEST”), and IFMG Securities, Inc., Independent Financial Marketing Group, Inc. and LSC Insurance Agency of Arizona, Inc. (collectively “IFMG”) further expanded our reach in offering financial services through banks, savings and loan institutions and credit unions nationwide. Our subsidiary, Independent Advisers Group Corporation (“IAG”), offers an investment advisory solution to insurance companies to support their financial advisors who are licensed with them. Our subsidiary, LPLIA, operates as a brokerage general agency which offers life, long-term care and disability insurance sales and services. Through our subsidiary PTC we offer trust, investment management oversight and custodial services for estates and families. Regulation The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by non-U.S. government agencies or regulatory bodies and securities exchanges. We take an active leadership role in the development of the rules and regulations that govern our industry. Given the recent turmoil in the financial services industry, we anticipate continued heightened scrutiny and significant modifications in these rules and regulations. We strive to be at the forefront of influencing this change. Throughout our history we have also invested heavily, with the benefit of our scale, in our compliance functions to monitor our compliance with the numerous legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business. Broker-Dealer Regulation LPL Financial, is a registered broker-dealer with the SEC, a member of FINRA, a member of various self-regulatory organizations and a participant in various clearing organizations including the Depository Trust Company, the National Securities Clearing Corporation and the Options Clearing Corporation. LPL Financial is registered as a broker-dealer in each of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Our subsidiaries UVEST and MSC are also registered broker-dealers with the SEC, and are members of FINRA. Similar to LPL Financial, UVEST conducts business on a national basis; however it acts as an introducing firm, using a third-party firm for securities clearing and custody functions. Prior to the consolidation of the Affiliated Entities, MSC also conducted business on a national basis as an introducing firm, using a third-party firm for securities clearing and custody functions. 12 Table of Contents Broker-dealers are subject to rules and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, public offerings, publication of research reports, use and safekeeping of clients’ funds and securities, capital adequacy, recordkeeping and reporting, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. Broker dealers are also regulated by state securities administrators in those jurisdictions where they do business. Compliance with many of the rules and regulations applicable to us involves a number of risks because rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations. Regulators make periodic examinations and review annual, monthly and other reports on our operations, track record and financial condition. Violations of rules and regulations governing a broker dealer’s actions could result in censure, penalties and fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar adverse consequences. The rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which are enforced by the SEC and FINRA, apply to the municipal securities activities of LPL Financial, UVEST and MSC. Our margin lending is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board’s restrictions on lending in connection with client purchases and short sales of securities, and FINRA rules also require such subsidiaries to impose maintenance requirements on the value of securities contained in margin accounts. In many cases, our margin policies are more stringent than these rules. Significant new rules and regulations are likely to arise as a result of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which was enacted in July 2010, including development by the SEC of a new fiduciary standard of conduct applicable to broker-dealers and investment advisors. These new rules and regulations may adversely affect our business by increasing our costs and exposure to litigation. Investment Adviser Regulation As investment advisers registered with the SEC, our subsidiaries LPL Financial, UVEST, and IAG are subject to the requirements of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and the SEC’s regulations thereunder, as well as to examination by the SEC’s staff. Such requirements relate to, among other things, fiduciary duties to clients, performance fees, maintaining an effective compliance program, solicitation arrangements, conflicts of interest, advertising, limitations on agency cross and principal transactions between the advisor and advisory clients, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements and general anti-fraud provisions. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to ERISA, and Sections 4975(c)(1)(A), (B), (C) or (D) of the Internal Revenue Code, and to regulations promulgated thereunder, insofar as they are a “fiduciary” under ERISA with respect to benefit plan clients or otherwise deal with benefit plan clients. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, impose certain duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit certain transactions involving ERISA plan clients (including, without limitation, employee benefit plans (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA), individual retirement accounts and Keogh plans) and provide monetary penalties for violations of these prohibitions. The SEC is authorized to institute proceedings and impose sanctions for violations of the Advisers Act, ranging from fines and censure to termination of an investment adviser’s registration. Investment advisers also are subject to certain state securities laws and regulations. Non-compliance with the Advisers Act or other federal and state securities laws and regulations could result in investigations, sanctions, disgorgement, fines or other similar consequences. Commodities and Futures Regulation LPL Financial is licensed as a futures commission merchant (“FCM”) and commodity pool operator with the Commodities Future Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and is a member of the National Futures Association (“NFA”). Although licensed as a FCM and a commodity pool operator, LPL Financial’s futures activities are limited to conducting business as a guaranteed introducing broker. LPL Financial is regulated by the CFTC and NFA. Violations of the rules of the CFTC and the NFA 13 Table of Contents could result in remedial actions including fines, registration terminations or revocations of exchange memberships. As a guaranteed introducing broker, LPL Financial clears commodities and futures products through ADM Investor Services International Limited (“ADM”), and all commodities accounts and related client positions are held by ADM. Trust Regulation Through our subsidiary PTC we offer trust, investment management oversight and custodial services for estates and families. PTC is chartered as a non-depository national banking association. As a limited purpose national bank, PTC is regulated and regularly examined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”). PTC files reports with the OCC within 30 days after the conclusion of each calendar quarter. Because the powers of PTC are limited to providing fiduciary services and investment advice, it does not have the power or authority to accept deposits or make loans. For this reason, trust assets under PTC’s management are not insured by the FDIC. As PTC is not a “bank” as defined under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, neither its parent, PTC Holdings, Inc., nor PTC is regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as a bank holding company. However, because it is subject to regulation by the OCC, PTC is subject to various laws and regulations enforced by the OCC, such as capital adequacy, change of control restrictions and regulations governing fiduciary duties, conflicts of interest, self-dealing and anti-money laundering. For example, the Change in Bank Control Act, as implemented by OCC supervisory policy, imposes restrictions on parties who wish to acquire a controlling interest in a trust company or the holding company of a trust company such as LPL Investment Holdings Inc. In general, an acquisition of 10% or more of our common stock, or an acquisition of “control” as defined in OCC regulations, would require OCC approval. These laws and regulations are designed to serve specific bank regulatory and supervisory purposes and are not meant for the protection of PTC, LPL or its stockholders. Regulatory Capital The SEC, FINRA, OCC, CFTC and the NFA have stringent rules and regulations with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by regulated entities. Generally, a broker-dealer’s net capital is net worth plus qualified subordinated debt less deductions for certain types of assets. The net capital rule under the Exchange Act requires that at least a minimum part of a broker-dealer’s assets be maintained in a relatively liquid form. Because LPL Financial is a guaranteed introducing broker for commodities and futures that is also a registered broker-dealer, CFTC rules require us to comply with higher net capital requirements of the net capital rule under the Exchange Act. The SEC, FINRA and CFTC impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria. These rules also dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer, and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. If a broker-dealer fails to maintain the required net capital, it may be subject to suspension or revocation of registration by the applicable regulatory agency, and suspension or expulsion by these regulators ultimately could lead to the broker-dealer’s liquidation. Additionally, the net capital rule and certain FINRA rules impose requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital, and that require prior notice to the SEC and FINRA for certain capital withdrawals. All of our subsidiaries that are subject to net capital rules have been, and currently are, in compliance with those rules and have net capital in excess of the minimum requirements. Anti-Money Laundering The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “PATRIOT Act”) contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various regulations applicable to broker-dealers, FCMs and other financial services companies. Financial institutions subject to the PATRIOT 14 Table of Contents Act generally must have anti-money laundering procedures in place, implement specialized employee training programs, designate an anti-money laundering compliance officer and are audited periodically by an independent party to test the effectiveness of compliance. We have established policies, procedures and systems designed to comply with these regulations. Privacy Regulatory activity in the areas of privacy and data protection continues to grow worldwide and is generally being driven by the growth of technology and related concerns about the rapid and widespread dissemination and use of information. We must comply with these information-related regulations, including, but not limited to, the 1999 Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, SEC Regulation S-P, the Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, and the 2003 Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, to the extent they are applicable to us. Trademarks LPL Financial®, LPL®, LPL Career Match®, the LPL Financial logo, LPL Partners Program®, Integrated Advisory Services®, Manager Access Select®, OMP® and BranchNet® are our registered trademarks. Applications for registered trademarks are pending for DO IT SMARTER and Manager Access Network. Service360tm, LPL Financial AdvisorFirsttm, ClientsFirsttm, LPL Financial RolloverNettm and LPL Accounttm are unregistered trademarks that we use as well. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and productive advisors. We derive a large portion of our revenues from commissions and fees generated by our advisors. Our ability to attract and retain experienced and productive advisors has contributed significantly to our growth and success, and our strategic plan is premised upon continued growth in the number of our advisors. If we fail to attract new advisors or to retain and motivate our current advisors, our business may suffer. The market for experienced and productive advisors is highly competitive, and we devote significant resources to attracting and retaining the most qualified advisors. In attracting and retaining advisors, we compete directly with a variety of financial institutions such as wirehouses, regional broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies and other independent broker-dealers. If we are not successful in attracting or retaining highly qualified advisors, we may not be able to recover the expense involved in attracting and training these individuals. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain the advisors needed to achieve our growth objectives. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by market fluctuations and other economic factors. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by market fluctuations and other economic factors. Significant downturns and volatility in equity and other financial markets have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. General economic and market factors can affect our commission and fee revenue. For example, a decrease in market levels can: • reduce new investments by both new and existing clients in financial products that are linked to the stock market, such as variable life insurance, variable annuities, mutual funds and managed accounts; • reduce trading activity, thereby affecting our brokerage commissions; 15 Table of Contents • reduce the value of advisory and brokerage assets, thereby reducing asset-based fee income and • motivate clients to withdraw funds from their accounts, reducing advisory and brokerage assets, advisory fee revenue and asset-based fee income. In addition, because certain of our expenses are fixed, our ability to reduce them over short periods of time is limited, which could negatively impact our profitability. Significant interest rate changes could affect our profitability and financial condition. Our revenues are exposed to interest rate risk primarily from changes in the interest rates payable to us from banks participating in our cash sweep program. In the current low interest rate environment, our revenue from our cash sweep program has declined and may decline further due to changes in interest rates or clients moving assets out of our cash sweep program. We may also be limited in the amount we can reduce interest rates payable to clients in our cash sweep program and still offer a competitive return. Lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business. We expend significant resources investing in our business, particularly with respect to our technology and service platforms. In addition, we must maintain certain levels of required capital. As a result, reduced levels of liquidity could have a significant negative effect on us. Some potential conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include: • illiquid or volatile markets; • diminished access to debt or capital markets or • unforeseen cash or capital requirements, adverse legal settlements or judgments (including, among others, risks associated with auction rate securities). The capital and credit markets continue to experience varying degrees of volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for businesses similar to ours. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be required to curtail our operations, and our business would suffer. Notwithstanding the self-funding nature of our operations, we may sometimes be required to fund timing differences arising from the delayed receipt of client funds associated with the settlement of client transactions in securities markets. These timing differences are funded either with internally generated cash flow or, if needed, with funds drawn under the revolving credit facility at the holding company, and/or uncommitted lines of credit at our broker-dealer subsidiary LPL Financial. In the event current resources are insufficient to satisfy our needs, we may need to rely on financing sources such as bank debt. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as • market conditions; • the general availability of credit; • the volume of trading activities; • the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry; • our credit ratings and credit capacity and • the possibility that our stockholders, advisors or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long-or short-term financial prospects if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. 16 Table of Contents Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating organizations take negative actions against us. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to satisfy statutory capital requirements, generate commission, fee and other market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of capital than we would otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. If the counterparties to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our interest rate risk default, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate. We use derivative instruments to hedge our interest rate risk. If our counterparties fail to honor their obligations under the derivative instruments, we could be subject to the risk of loss and our hedges of the interest rate risk will be ineffective. That failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows that could be material. For the names of key counterparties upon which we currently rely, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Risk — Interest Rate Risk”. A loss of our marketing relationships with manufacturers of financial products could harm our relationship with our advisors and, in turn, their clients. We operate on an open architecture product platform with no proprietary financial products. To help our advisors meet their clients’ needs with suitable investment options, we have relationships with most of the industry-leading providers of financial and insurance products. We have sponsorship agreements with some manufacturers of fixed and variable annuities and mutual funds that, subject to the survival of certain terms and conditions, may be terminated upon notice. If we lose our relationships with one or more of these manufacturers, our ability to serve our advisors and our business may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment Regulatory developments and our failure to comply with regulations could adversely affect our business by increasing our costs and exposure to litigation, affecting our reputation and making our business less profitable. Our business is subject to extensive U.S. regulation and supervision, including securities and investment advisory services. The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. Our broker-dealer subsidiary, LPL Financial, is: • registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC, each of the 50 states, and the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands; • registered as an investment advisor with the SEC; • a member of FINRA; • regulated by the CFTC with respect to the futures and commodities trading activities it conducts as an introducing broker and • a member of the NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”) and the Chicago Stock Exchange. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations (“SROs”), namely FINRA and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (“MSRB”). The primary 17 Table of Contents regulators of LPL Financial are FINRA, and for municipal securities, the MSRB. The CFTC has designated the NFA as LPL Financial’s primary regulator for futures and commodities trading activities. The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, OCC, various securities and futures exchanges and other U.S. governmental or regulatory authorities continuously review legislative and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations. There can also be no assurance that other federal or state agencies will not attempt to further regulate our business. These legislative and regulatory initiatives may affect the way in which we conduct our business and may make our business model less profitable. Our ability to conduct business in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate depends on our compliance with the laws, rules and regulations promulgated by federal regulatory bodies and the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance, audit and risk management personnel. While we have adopted policies and procedures reasonably designed to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, these systems and procedures may not be fully effective, and there can be no assurance that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with respect to our past or future compliance with applicable regulations. Our profitability could also be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities generally and, in particular, our advisors’ clients, including changes to the laws governing taxation (including the classification of independent contractor status of our advisors), electronic commerce, privacy and data protection. Failure to comply with new rules and regulations, including in particular, rules and regulations that may arise pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, could subject us to regulatory actions or litigation and it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. In addition, new rules and regulations could result in limitations on the lines of business we conduct, modifications to our business practices, increased capital requirements or additional costs. For example, the U.S. Department of Labor has issued a proposed rule that, if adopted as currently proposed, would broaden the circumstances under which we may be considered a “fiduciary” under Section 3(21) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”). We are subject to various regulatory ownership requirements, which, if not complied with, could result in the restriction of the ongoing conduct, growth or even liquidation of parts of our business. The business activities that we may conduct are limited by various regulatory agencies. Our membership agreement with FINRA may be amended by application to include additional business activities. This application process is time-consuming and may not be successful. As a result, we may be prevented from entering new potentially profitable businesses in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, as a member of FINRA, we are subject to certain regulations regarding changes in control of our ownership. Rule 1017 of the National Association of Securities Dealers (“NASD”) generally provides, among other things, that FINRA approval must be obtained in connection with any transaction resulting in a change in our equity ownership that results in one person or entity directly or indirectly owning or controlling 25% or more of our equity capital. Similarly, the OCC imposes advance approval requirements for a change of control, and control is presumed to exist if a person acquires 10% or more of our common stock. These regulatory approval processes can result in delay, increased costs and/or impose additional transaction terms in connection with a proposed change of control, such as capital contributions to the regulated entity. As a result of these regulations, our future efforts to sell shares or raise additional capital may be delayed or prohibited. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to various regulatory capital requirements, which, if not complied with, could result in the restriction of the ongoing conduct, growth, or even liquidation of parts of our business. The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, OCC and NFA have extensive rules and regulations with respect to capital requirements. As a registered broker-dealer, LPL Financial is subject to Rule 15c3-1 (“Uniform Net Capital Rule”) under the Exchange Act, and related SRO requirements. The CFTC and NFA also impose net capital requirements. The Uniform Net Capital Rule specifies minimum capital requirements that are intended to ensure the general soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. Because we are not a registered broker-dealer, we are not subject to the Uniform Net Capital Rule. However, our ability to withdraw capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries could be restricted, which in turn could limit our ability to repay debt and redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain our present levels of business. Failure to comply with ERISA regulations could result in penalties against us. We are subject to ERISA and Sections 4975(c)(1)(A), (B), (C) and (D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”), and to regulations promulgated thereunder, insofar as we act as a “fiduciary” under ERISA with respect to benefit plan clients or otherwise deal with benefit plan clients. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit specified transactions involving ERISA plan clients (including, without limitation, employee benefit plans (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA), individual retirement accounts and Keogh plans) and impose monetary penalties for violations of these prohibitions. Our failure to comply with these requirements could result in significant penalties against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business (or, in a worst case, severely limit the extent to which we could act as fiduciaries for any plans under ERISA). Risks Related to Our Competition We operate in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause us to lose advisors and their assets, thereby reducing our revenues and net income. We are subject to competition in all aspects of our business, including competition for our advisors and their clients, from: • asset management firms; • commercial banks and thrift institutions; • insurance companies; • other clearing/custodial technology companies and • brokerage and investment banking firms. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of services, including financial products, across more markets. Some operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may give them certain competitive advantages in the services they offer. For example, certain of our competitors only provide clearing services and consequently would not have any supervision or oversight liability relating to actions of their financial advisors. We believe that competition within our industry will intensify as a result of consolidation and acquisition activity and because new competitors face few barriers to entry. If we fail to continue to attract highly qualified advisors or advisors licensed with us leave us to pursue other opportunities, or if current or potential clients of our advisors decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, commission and fee revenues and 19 Table of Contents net income. If we are required to increase our payout of commissions and fees to our advisors in order to remain competitive, our net income could be significantly reduced. Poor service or performance of the financial products that we offer or competitive pressures on pricing of such services or products may cause clients of our advisors to withdraw their assets on short notice. Clients of our advisors control their assets under management with us. Poor service or performance of the financial products that we offer or competitive pressures on pricing of such services or products may result in the loss of accounts. In addition, we must monitor the pricing of our services and financial products in relation to competitors and periodically may need to adjust commission and fee rates, interest rates on deposits and margin loans and other fee structures to remain competitive. Competition from other financial services firms, such as reduced commissions to attract clients or trading volume or higher deposit rates to attract client cash balances, could adversely impact our business. The decrease in revenue that could result from such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business. We face competition in attracting and retaining key talent. Our success and future growth depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. There is significant competition for qualified employees in the broker-dealer industry. We may not be able to retain our existing employees or fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover. The loss or unavailability of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, our success depends upon the continued services of our key senior management personnel, including our executive officers and senior managers. The loss of one or more of our key senior management personnel, and the failure to recruit a suitable replacement or replacements, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Debt Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and may limit our ability to use debt to fund future capital needs. At December 31, 2010, we had total indebtedness of $1.4 billion. Our level of indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. It could also require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. In addition, our level of indebtedness may limit our flexibility in planning for changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and limit our ability to borrow additional funds. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance indebtedness obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. In addition, as discussed above, we are limited in the amount of capital that we can draw from our broker-dealer subsidiaries. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful or feasible. Our Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (“senior secured credit agreement”) restricts our ability to sell assets. Even if we could consummate those sales, the proceeds that we 20 Table of Contents realize from them may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Furthermore, if an event of default were to occur with respect to our senior secured credit agreement or other indebtedness, our creditors could, among other things, accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness. In addition, as a result of reduced operating performance or weaker than expected financial condition, rating agencies could downgrade our senior unsecured subordinated notes, which would adversely affect the value of shares of our common stock. Our senior secured credit agreement permits us to incur additional indebtedness. Although our senior secured credit agreement contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute “indebtedness” as defined in our senior secured credit agreement. To the extent new debt or other obligations are added to our currently anticipated debt levels, the substantial indebtedness risks described above would increase. Restrictions under certain of our indebtedness may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business. Certain of our indebtedness contain customary restrictions on our activities, including covenants that may restrict us from: • incurring additional indebtedness or issuing disqualified stock or preferred stock; • paying dividends on, redeeming or repurchasing our capital stock; • making investments or acquisitions; • creating liens; • selling assets; • restricting dividends or other payments to us; • guaranteeing indebtedness; • engaging in transactions with affiliates and • consolidating, merging or transferring all or substantially all of our assets. We are also required to meet specified financial ratios. These restrictions may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business. Our ability to comply with these restrictive covenants will depend on our future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. If we violate any of these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers, we would be in default under the applicable agreements and payment of the indebtedness could be accelerated. The acceleration of our indebtedness under one agreement may permit acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements that contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay that indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our indebtedness is in default for any reason, our business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the common stock and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. Provisions of our senior secured credit agreement could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of our senior secured credit agreement could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us, and any of our future debt agreements may contain similar 21 Table of Contents provisions. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a change of control, all indebtedness under our senior secured credit agreement may be accelerated and become due and payable. A potential acquirer may not have sufficient financial resources to purchase our outstanding indebtedness in connection with a change of control. Risks Related to Our Technology We rely on technology in our business, and technology and execution failures could subject us to losses, litigation and regulatory actions. Our business relies extensively on electronic data processing and communications systems. In addition to better serving our advisors and clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables firms like ours to reduce costs. Our continued success will depend, in part, upon: • our ability to successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our systems; • our ability to address the needs of our advisors and their clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands and • our ability to retain skilled information technology employees. Failure of our systems, which could result from events beyond our control, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients and damage to our reputation. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our own, our advisors’ or their clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed, stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our own, our advisors’ or their clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured or are not fully covered through any insurance we maintain. The securities settlement process exposes us to risks that may expose our advisors and us to adverse movements in price. LPL Financial, one of our subsidiaries, provides clearing services and trade processing for our advisors and their clients and certain financial institutions. Broker-dealers that clear their own trades are subject to substantially more regulatory requirements than brokers that outsource these functions to third-party providers. Errors in performing clearing functions, including clerical, technological and other errors related to the handling of funds and securities held by us on behalf of clients, could lead to censures, fines or other sanctions imposed by applicable regulatory authorities as well as losses and liability in related lawsuits and proceedings brought by our advisors’ clients and others. Any unsettled securities transactions or wrongly executed transactions may expose our advisors and us to adverse movements in the prices of such securities. Our networks may be vulnerable to security risks. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. As part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about clients of our advisors as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. Our application service provider systems maintain and process confidential data on behalf of advisors 22 Table of Contents and their clients, some of which is critical to our advisors’ business operations. If our application service provider systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems or facilities are infiltrated or damaged by unauthorized persons, our advisors could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation and significant business interruption. If such a disruption or failure occurs, we may be exposed to unexpected liability, advisors may withdraw their assets, our reputation may be tarnished and there could be a material adverse effect on our business. Our networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems in the future. We rely on our advisors to comply with our policies and procedures to safeguard confidential data. The failure of our advisors to comply with such policies and procedures could result in the loss or wrongful use of their clients’ confidential information or other sensitive information. In addition, even if we and our advisors comply with our policies and procedures, persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our confidential information or clients’ confidential information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Such loss or use could, among other things: • seriously damage our reputation; • allow competitors access to our proprietary business information; • subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data; • result in the termination of relationships with our advisors; • subject us to regulatory sanctions or burdens, based on the authority of the SEC and FINRA to enforce regulations regarding business continuity planning and • require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. Failure to maintain technological capabilities, flaws in existing technology, difficulties in upgrading our technology platform or the introduction of a competitive platform could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary technology to support our business functions, including among others: • securities trading and custody; • portfolio management; • customer service; • accounting and internal financial processes and controls and • regulatory compliance and reporting. In addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry and regulatory demands. We might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive technology. For example, we believe that our technology platform, particularly our BranchNet system, is one of our competitive strengths, and our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological advancements required to meet the changing demands of our advisors. The emergence of new industry standards and practices could render our existing systems obsolete or uncompetitive. Any upgrades or expansions may require significant expenditures of funds and may also cause us to suffer system degradations, outages and failures. There cannot be any assurance that we will have sufficient funds to adequately update and expand our networks, nor can there be any assurance that any upgrade or expansion attempts will be successful and accepted by our current and prospective advisors. If our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of advisors and could harm our reputation. A technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and 23 Table of Contents other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and to liability to our advisors and their clients. There cannot be any assurance that another company will not design a similar platform that affects our competitive advantage. Inadequacy or disruption of our disaster recovery plans and procedures in the event of a catastrophe could adversely affect our business. We have made a significant investment in our infrastructure, and our operations are dependent on our ability to protect the continuity of our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, breach of security, loss of power, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made events. A catastrophic event could have a direct negative impact on us by adversely affecting our advisors, employees or facilities, or an indirect impact on us by adversely affecting the financial markets or the overall economy. While we have implemented business continuity and disaster recovery plans and maintain business interruption insurance, it is impossible to fully anticipate and protect against all potential catastrophes. If our business continuity and disaster recovery plans and procedures were disrupted or unsuccessful in the event of a catastrophe, we could experience a material adverse interruption of our operations. We rely on outsourced service providers to perform key functions. We rely on outsourced service providers to perform certain key technology, processing and support functions. For example, we have an agreement with Thomson Reuters BETA Systems, a division of Thomson Reuters, under which they provide us operational support, including data processing services for securities transactions and back office processing support. Any significant failures by these service providers could cause us to incur losses and could harm our reputation. If we had to change these service providers, we would experience a disruption to our business. Although we believe we have the resources to make such transitions with minimal disruption, we cannot predict the costs and time for such conversions. We cannot provide any assurance that the disruption caused by a change in our service providers would not have a material adverse affect on our business. Risks Related to Our Business Generally Any damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income. We have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity and superior client service, which is built upon our four pillars of support for our advisors: enabling technology, comprehensive clearing and compliance services, practice management programs and training, and independent research. Our ability to attract and retain advisors and employees is highly dependent upon external perceptions of our level of service, business practices and financial condition. Damage to our reputation could cause significant harm to our business and prospects and may arise from numerous sources, including: • litigation or regulatory actions; • failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality; • compliance failures and • unethical behavior and the misconduct of employees, advisors or counterparties. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage our reputation among existing and potential advisors and employees. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. These occurrences could lead to loss of revenue and net income. 24 Table of Contents Our business is subject to risks related to litigation, arbitration actions and governmental and SRO investigations. We are subject to legal proceedings arising out of our business operations, including lawsuits, arbitration claims, regulatory, governmental or SRO subpoenas, investigations and actions and other claims. Many of our legal claims are client initiated and involve the purchase or sale of investment securities. In our investment advisory programs, we have fiduciary obligations that require us and our advisors to act in the best interests of our advisors’ clients. We may face liabilities for actual or alleged breaches of legal duties to our advisors’ clients, in respect of issues related to the suitability of the financial products we make available in our open architecture product platform or the investment advice of our advisors based on their clients’ investment objectives (including, for example, auction rate securities or exchange traded funds). In addition, we, along with other industry participants, are subject to risks related to litigation and settlements arising from market events such as the failures in the auction rate securities market. We may also become subject to claims, allegations and legal proceedings that we infringe or misappropriate intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others. In addition, we may be subject to legal proceedings related to employment matters, including wage and hour, discrimination or harassment claims. The outcome of any such actions cannot be predicted, and a negative outcome in such a proceeding could result in substantial legal liability, loss of intellectual property rights and injunctive or other equitable relief against us. Further, such outcome may cause us significant reputational harm and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risks. We have adopted policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our operational risk. These policies and procedures, however, may not be fully effective. Some of our risk evaluation methods depend upon information provided by others and public information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are otherwise accessible by us. In some cases, however, that information may not be accurate, complete or up-to-date. Also, because our advisors work in small, decentralized offices, additional risk management challenges may exist. If our policies and procedures are not fully effective or we are not always successful in capturing all risks to which we are or may be exposed, we may suffer harm to our reputation or be subject to litigation or regulatory actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Misconduct and errors by our employees and our advisors, who operate in a decentralized-environment, could harm our business. Misconduct and errors by our employees and our advisors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm. We cannot always prevent misconduct and errors by our employees and our advisors, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective in all cases. Prevention and detection among our advisors, who are not our direct employees and some of whom tend to be located in small, decentralized offices, present additional challenges. There cannot be any assurance that misconduct and errors by our employees and advisors will not lead to a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate or expensive. We are subject to claims in the ordinary course of business. These claims may involve substantial amounts of money and involve significant defense costs. It is not always possible to prevent or detect activities giving rise to claims, and the precautions we take may not be effective in all cases. We maintain voluntary and required insurance coverage, including, among others, general liability, property, director and officer, excess-SIPC, business interruption, errors and omissions, 25 Table of Contents excess entity errors and omissions and fidelity bond insurance. Recently, premium and deductible costs associated with certain insurance coverages have increased, coverage terms have become more restrictive and the number of insurers has decreased. While we endeavor to purchase coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of our risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. Our business may be negatively affected if in the future our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. In addition, insurance claims may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of the risks associated with acquisitions and investments. We may seek to opportunistically acquire businesses that offer complementary products, services or technologies. These acquisitions are accompanied by risks. For instance, the acquisition could have a negative effect on our financial and strategic position and reputation or the acquired business could fail to further our strategic goals. We could incur significant costs when integrating an acquired business and may not be successful in doing so. We may have a lack of experience in new markets, products or technologies brought on by the acquisition and we may have an initial dependence on unfamiliar supply or distribution partners. The acquisition may create an impairment of relationships with customers or suppliers of the acquired business or our advisors or suppliers. All of these and other potential risks may serve as a diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns and any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could make some of the products distributed by our advisors less attractive to clients. Some of the financial products distributed by our advisors, such as variable annuities, enjoy favorable treatment under current U.S. federal income tax law. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law, in particular with respect to variable annuity products or with respect to tax rates on capital gains or dividends, could make some of these products less attractive to clients and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The Majority Holders will have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder approval and may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, investment funds affiliated with the Majority Holders own approximately 62.9% of our common stock, or 56.2% on a fully diluted basis. The Majority Holders have significant influence over corporate transactions. So long as investment funds associated with or designated by the Majority Holders continue to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the Majority Holders will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions, regardless of whether or not other stockholders believe that the transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. If the Majority Holders enter into a change in control transaction, certain members of our executive team have the contractual ability to terminate their employment within the thirty day period immediately following the twelve month anniversary of a change in control and receive severance payments. In addition, the Majority Holders and their affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time in the future, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business. To the extent the Majority Holders invest in such other businesses, the Majority Holders may have differing interests than our other stockholders. The Majority Holders may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. 26 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate substantially, which could result in substantial losses for our investors. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to the following factors (in addition to the other risk factors described in this section): • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; • variance in our financial performance from the expectations of equity research analysts; • conditions and trends in the markets we serve; • announcements of significant new services or products by us or our competitors; • additions or changes to key personnel; • the commencement or outcome of litigation; • changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors; • the trading volume of our common stock; • future sale of our equity securities; • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; • legislation or regulatory policies, practices or actions and • general economic conditions. In addition, the stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock irrespective of our operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against the affected company. This type of litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We are a holding company and rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations. We have no direct operations and derive all of our cash flow from our subsidiaries. Because we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments or distributions to meet any existing or future debt service and other obligations. The deterioration of the earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us. In addition, FINRA regulations restrict dividends in excess of 10% of a member firm’s excess net capital without FINRA’s prior approval. Compliance with this regulation may impede our ability to receive dividends from LPL Financial. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends on shares of our common stock for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, our senior secured credit agreement places substantial restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Accordingly, realization of a gain on your investment will depend on the appreciation 27 Table of Contents of the price of our common stock, which may never occur. Please see the section titled “Dividend Policy” for additional information. Upon expiration of lock-up agreements between the underwriters and our officers, directors and certain holders of our common stock in mid-May 2011, a substantial number of shares of our common stock could be sold into the public market, which could depress our stock price. Our officers, directors and certain holders of our common stock, options and warrants, holding substantially all of our outstanding shares of common stock immediately prior to completion of our IPO, have entered into lock-up agreements with our underwriters which prohibit, subject to certain limited exceptions, the disposal or pledge of, or the hedging against, any of their common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of common stock for a period through May 16, 2011, subject to extension in certain circumstances. Our Stockholders Agreement also restricts the parties thereto from transferring their shares of common stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of common stock through May 16, 2011. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our stockholders in the market after the expiration of these lock-up periods, or the perception that these sales could occur. After these lock-up periods expire, many of our stockholders will have an opportunity to sell their stock for the first time. These factors could also make it difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain certain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable, including the following, some of which may only become effective when the Majority Holders collectively own less than 40% of our outstanding shares of common stock: • the division of our board of directors into three classes and the election of each class for three-year terms; • the sole ability of the board of directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings and to take action by written consent; • when the Majority Holders collectively own 50% or less of our outstanding shares of common stock, the approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote generally on the making, alteration, amendment or repeal of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, will be required to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws, or amend or repeal certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; • the required approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of the directors to remove directors and, following the classification of the board of directors, removal only for cause and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock, without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a rights plan, or a poison pill, that would work to dilute the stock ownership or a potential hostile acquirer, likely preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in the acquisition. 28 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 