ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating our company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In such a case, you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Company Volatility in oil, NGL and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. The prices we receive for our oil, NGL and natural gas production heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities, and therefore their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • changes in global supply and demand for oil, NGLs and natural gas; • the condition of the U.S. and global economy; • the actions of certain foreign states; • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; • political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting other oil producing activities; • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; • the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • production or pricing decisions made by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • weather conditions; • availability of limited refining facilities in the Illinois Basin reducing competition and resulting in lower regional oil prices than in other U.S. oil producing regions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • effect of energy conservation efforts; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Furthermore, oil and natural gas prices continued to be volatile in 2012. For example, the NYMEX oil prices in 2012 ranged from a high of $109.77 to a low of $77.69 per Bbl and the NYMEX natural gas prices in 2012 ranged from a high of $3.90 to a low of $1.91 per MMBtu. Lower oil, NGL and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but also may reduce the amount of oil, NGLs and natural gas that we can produce economically. The higher operating costs associated with many of our oil fields will make our profitability more sensitive to oil price declines. A sustained decline in oil, NGL or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. 17 Table of Contents Drilling for and producing oil, NGLs and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil, NGL and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil, NGL or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Please see below for a discussion of the uncertainties involved in these processes. Our costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures could be materially and adversely affected by any factor that may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; • unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; • pipe or cement failures; • casing collapses; • lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; • loss of drilling fluid circulation; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas and fluids; • fires and natural disasters; • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures, discharges of toxic gases or mishandling of fluids (including frac fluids) and underground migration issues; • adverse weather conditions; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • oil and natural gas property title problems; and • market limitations for oil and natural gas. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil, NGLs or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation. There is no way to predict with certainty in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil, NGLs or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable, particularly in light of the current economic environment. The use of seismic data and other technologies, and the study of producing fields in the same area, will not enable us to know conclusively before drilling whether oil, NGLs or natural gas will be present or, if 18 Table of Contents present, whether oil, NGLs or natural gas will be present in commercially viable quantities. Moreover, the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields may not be applicable to our drilling prospects. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves. To prepare our proved reserve estimates, we must project production rates and the timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil, NGL and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, oil, NGL and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. In addition, we may adjust estimates of estimated proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil, NGL and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The present value of future net cash flows from out estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil, NGL and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; • actual cost of development and production expenditures; • the amount and timing of actual production; • supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from estimated proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration for, and development, production and acquisition of, oil and natural gas reserves. For 2013, we have budgeted $250.0 million for capital expenditures for 19 Table of Contents development and exploration activities in the Appalachian and Illinois Basins. To date, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with proceeds from bank borrowings, cash generated by operations, public stock offerings, sales of non-core assets and joint venture agreements. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with proceeds from bank borrowings, the sale of debt or equity securities, asset sales, cash flow from operations and current and new financing arrangements, such as joint ventures; however, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities. The issuance of additional equity securities could have a dilutive effect on the value of our common stock. Additional borrowings under our credit facility or the issuance of additional debt securities will require that a greater portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. In addition, our credit facility imposes certain limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness other than indebtedness under our credit facility. If we desire to issue additional debt securities other than as expressly permitted under our credit facility, we will be required to seek the consent of the lenders in accordance with the requirements of the credit facility, which consent may be withheld by the lenders at their discretion. If we incur certain additional indebtedness, our borrowing base under our credit facility may be reduced. Also, our revolving credit contains covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things, materially change our business, approve and distribute dividends, enter into transactions with affiliates, create or acquire additional subsidiaries, incur indebtedness, sell assets, make loans to others, make investments, enter into mergers, incur liens, and enter into agreements regarding swap and other derivative transactions. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of variables, including: • our estimated proved reserves; • the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • our ability to extract NGLs from the natural gas we produce; • the prices at which oil, NGLs and natural gas are sold; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil, NGL and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may need to seek additional financing in the future. In addition, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. We have substantial indebtedness and may incur substantially more debt, which could exacerbate the risks associated with our indebtedness. We had approximately $250.9 million of outstanding indebtedness at December 31, 2012. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including under our revolving credit facility and our second lien credit facility. At December 31, 2012, our $500 million revolving credit facility had a borrowing base of $240.0 million for secured borrowings, subject to periodic borrowing base redeterminations. As a result of our indebtedness, we will need to use a portion of our cash flow to pay interest, which will reduce the amount we will have available to fund our operations and other business activities and could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our indebtedness under our senior credit facility is at a variable interest rate, and so a rise in interest rates will 20 Table of Contents generate greater interest expense to the extent we do not have applicable interest rate fluctuation hedges. The amount of our debt may also cause us to be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. We may incur substantially more debt in the future. The indenture governing our senior notes contains restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness. These restrictions, however, are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, we could incur substantial additional indebtedness in compliance with these restrictions. Moreover, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness under the indenture. Our ability to meet our debt obligations and other expenses will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt, we may be required to refinance debt, sell assets or sell additional equity on terms that we may not find attractive if it may be done at all. Further, our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to our indebtedness could result in a default under that indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revolving credit facility contains, and the indenture governing our senior notes contain, operating and financial restrictions that may restrict our business and financing activities. Our revolving credit facility contains, the indenture governing our senior notes contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • sell assets, including equity interests in our subsidiaries; • pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our common stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; • make investments; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; • create or incur certain liens; • make certain acquisitions and investments; • redeem or prepay other debt; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. As a result of these covenants, we will be limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Our ability to comply with some of the covenants and restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes may be affected by events beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. A failure to comply with the covenants, ratios or tests in our revolving credit facility, the indenture governing our senior notes or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default under our revolving credit facility, the indenture governing our senior notes or our future indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If an event of default under our revolving credit facility occurs and remains uncured, the lenders thereunder: • would not be required to lend any additional amounts to us; 21 Table of Contents • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable; • may have the ability to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or • may prevent us from making debt service payments under our other agreements. A payment default or an acceleration under our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default and an acceleration under the indenture for our senior notes. If the indebtedness under the notes were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness in full. In addition, our obligations under our revolving credit facility are collateralized by perfected first priority liens and security interests on substantially all of our assets and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under the revolving credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. The development of our proved undeveloped reserves in our areas of operation may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our undeveloped reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced. Approximately 58.3% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped as of December 31, 2012. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling. Our reserve data assumes that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully. These assumptions, however, may not prove correct. We estimate that approximately $323.2 million in capital expenditures will be required over the next five years to develop our total proved undeveloped reserves. Development of these reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Delays in the development of our reserves or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the PV-10 of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. In addition, delays in the development of reserves could cause us to have to reclassify our estimated proved reserves as unproved reserves. Any such writeoffs of our reserves could reduce our ability to borrow money and could reduce the value of our securities. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling Our management has identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimate of our future multi- year drilling activities on our existing acreage. All of our drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, availability of drilling services and equipment, lease expirations, gathering system, marketing and pipeline transportation constraints, oil and natural gas prices, drilling and production costs, drilling results and other factors. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. Pursuant to SEC rules and guidance, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be booked if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. The SEC rules and guidance may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. Unless we replace our oil, NGL and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Producing oil, NGLs and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil, NGL and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently 22 Table of Contents developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations or are unable to dispose of the water we use at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce gas commercially and in commercial quantities could be impaired. We use between four and six million gallons of water per well in our well completion operations in the Appalachian Basin. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or dispose of water after drilling, could adversely impact our operations. Moreover, the adoption and implementation of new environmental regulations could result in restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or the imposition of new requirements pertaining to the management and disposal of wastes generated by our operations, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. Furthermore, new environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may also increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and drilling and completion services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our exploration and development plans within our budget. We may, from time to time, encounter difficulty in obtaining, or an increase in the cost of securing, drilling rigs, equipment, services and supplies. In addition, larger producers may be more likely to secure access to such equipment and services by offering more lucrative terms. If we are unable to acquire access to such resources, or can obtain access only at higher prices, our ability to convert our reserves into cash flow could be delayed and the cost of producing those reserves could increase significantly, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Federal, state and local regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The hydraulic fracturing process involves the injection of water, sand, and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. We commonly use hydraulic fracturing as part of our operations. Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing may adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The federal Safe Drinking Water Act (“SDWA”) regulates the underground injection of substances through the Underground Injection Control Program (“UIC”). The hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions; however, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel under the SDWA’s UIC program. On May 4, 2012, the EPA issued draft guidance for SDWA UIC permits issued to oil and natural gas exploration and production operators injecting diesel fuels during the hydraulic fracturing process. In addition, legislation has been introduced in prior sessions of Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Also, many state governments have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, well construction, and operational requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations or otherwise seek to temporarily or permanently ban fracturing activities. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, zoning laws, and traffic regulations may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. We believe that we follow 23 Table of Contents applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in our hydraulic fracturing activities. Nonetheless, if new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. In addition, certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater. In December 2012. the EPA issued an update stating that draft results of the study would be available for peer review in 2014. In the interim, however, the EPA has utilized existing statutory authority under the SDWA, the Clean Water Act (“CWA”), Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), and the Clean Air Act (“CAA”) to investigate, order actions, and potentially pursue penalties against some oil and natural gas producers where EPA believes their activities may have impacted the air or groundwater. Moreover, the EPA is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards by 2014. On April 13, 2012, President Obama issued an executive order creating a task force to coordinate federal oversight over domestic natural gas production and hydraulic fracturing. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Interior, have evaluated or are evaluating various aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms. To our knowledge, there have been no citations, suits, or contamination of potable drinking water arising from our fracturing operations. We do not have insurance policies in effect that are intended to provide coverage for losses solely related to hydraulic fracturing operations; however, we believe our general liability and excess liability insurance policies would cover third-party claims related to hydraulic fracturing operations and associated legal expenses in accordance with, and subject to, the terms of such policies. If our access to markets is restricted, it could negatively impact our production, our income and ultimately our ability to retain our leases. Our ability to sell our oil, NGLs, and natural gas and/or receive market prices for our oil, NGLs and natural gas may be adversely affected by pipeline and gathering system capacity constraints. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil, NGL and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil, NGL and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil, NGL and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil, NGLs and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. Our productive properties may be located in areas with limited or no access to pipelines, thereby necessitating delivery by other means, such as trucking, or requiring compression facilities. Such restrictions on our ability to sell our oil, NGLs or natural gas may have several adverse effects, including higher transportation costs, fewer potential purchasers (thereby potentially resulting in a lower selling price) or, in the event we were unable to market and sustain production from a particular lease for an extended time, possibly causing us to lose a lease due to lack of production. If drilling in the Marcellus Shale and other areas of the Appalachian Basin continues to be successful, the amount of natural gas being produced by us and others could exceed the capacity of the various gathering and intrastate or interstate transportation pipelines currently available in these areas. If this occurs, it will be necessary for new pipelines and gathering systems to be built. Because of the current economic climate, certain pipeline projects that are planned for these areas may not occur. In addition, capital constraints could limit our 24 Table of Contents ability to build intrastate gathering systems necessary to transport our gas to interstate pipelines. In such event, we might have to shut in our wells awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity and/or sell natural gas production at significantly lower prices than those quoted on NYMEX or than we currently project, which would adversely affect our results of operations. A portion of our natural gas, NGL and oil production in any region may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents, loss of pipeline or gathering system access, field labor issues or strikes, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could temporarily adversely affect our cash flow. Enhanced Oil Recovery (“EOR”) techniques that we may use, such as our Alkali-Surfactant-Polymer flooding in the Lawrence Field, involve more risk than traditional waterflooding. An EOR technique such as alkali-surfactant-polymer (“ASP”) chemical injection involves significant capital investment and an extended period of time, generally two years or longer, from the initial phase of a pilot program until increased production occurs. The results of any successful pilot program may not be indicative of actual results achieved in a broader EOR project in the same field or area. Generally, surfactant polymer, including ASP, injection is regarded as involving more risk than traditional waterflood operations. Our ability to achieve commercial production and recognize estimated proved reserves from our EOR projects is greatly contingent upon many inherent uncertainties associated with EOR technology, including ASP technology, geological uncertainties, chemical and equipment availability, rig availability and many other factors. We cannot control activities on properties that we do not operate and are unable to control their proper operation and profitability. We do not operate all of the properties in which we own an interest. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, the operations of these properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements or an operator’s failure to act in ways that are in our best interests could reduce our production and revenues. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s: • nature and timing of drilling and operational activities; • timing and amount of capital expenditures; • expertise and financial resources; • the approval of other participants in drilling wells; and • selection of suitable technology. All of the value of our production and reserves is concentrated in the Appalachian Basin and Illinois Basin. Because of this concentration, any production problems or changes in assumptions affecting our proved reserve estimates related to these areas could have a material adverse impact to our business. For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 82.4% of our net production came from the Appalachian Basin and 17.6% came from the Illinois Basin. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 91.1% of our estimated proved reserves were located in the fields that comprise the Appalachian Basin and 8.9% of our estimated proved reserves were located in fields that comprise the Illinois Basin. If mechanical problems, weather conditions or other events were to curtail a substantial portion of the production in one or both of these 25 Table of Contents regions, our cash flow would be adversely affected. If ultimate production associated with these properties is less than our estimated reserves, or changes in pricing, cost or recovery assumptions in the area results in a downward revision of any estimated reserves in these properties, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Competition in the oil, NGL and natural gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil, NGLs and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours, which can be particularly important in the areas in which we operate. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. We may be required to take additional write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties, potentially triggering earlier-than-anticipated repayments of any outstanding debt obligations and negatively impacting the trading value of our securities. There is a risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties. We account for our natural gas and crude oil exploration and development activities using the successful efforts method of accounting. Under this method, costs of productive exploratory wells, developmental dry holes and productive wells and undeveloped leases are capitalized. Oil and gas lease acquisition costs are also capitalized. Exploration costs, including personnel costs, certain geological and geophysical expenses and delay rentals for oil and gas leases are charged to expense as incurred. Exploratory drilling costs are initially capitalized, but charged to expense if and when the well is determined not to have found reserves in commercial quantities. The capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties may not exceed the estimated future net cash flows from our properties. If capitalized costs exceed future cash flows, we write down the costs of the properties to our estimate of fair market value. Any such charge will not affect our cash flow from operating activities, but will reduce our earnings and may have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay interest on our senior notes. The application of the successful efforts method of accounting requires managerial judgment to determine the proper classification of wells designated as developmental or exploratory, which will ultimately determine the proper accounting treatment of the costs incurred. The results from a drilling operation can take considerable time to analyze and the determination that commercial reserves have been discovered requires both judgment and industry experience. Wells may be completed that are assumed to be productive but may actually deliver oil and gas in quantities insufficient to be economic, which may result in the abandonment of the wells at a later date. Wells are drilled that have targeted geologic structures that are both developmental and exploratory in nature, and an allocation of costs is required to properly account for the results. The evaluation of oil and gas leasehold acquisition costs requires judgment to estimate the fair value of these costs with reference to drilling activity in a given area. We review our oil and gas properties for impairment annually or whenever events and circumstances indicate a decline in the recoverability of their carrying value. Once incurred, a write down of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date even if gas or oil prices increase. Given the complexities associated with oil and gas reserve estimates and the history of price volatility in the oil and gas markets, events may arise that would require us to record an impairment of the book values associated with oil and gas properties. 26 Table of Contents Additional write downs could occur if oil and gas prices decline or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our drilling results. Because our properties currently serve, and will likely continue to serve, as collateral for advances under our existing and future credit facilities, a write-down in the carrying values of our properties could require us to repay debt earlier than we would otherwise be required. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil, NGL and natural gas operations, and we may not have enough insurance to cover all of the risks that we face. We maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses to protect against the risks we face. We do not carry business interruption insurance. We may elect not to carry insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, it is not possible to insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil, NGLs and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination and soil contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapses; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, then that accident or other event could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to complex laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. The exploration, development, production and sale of oil, NGLs and natural gas are subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations. Such regulation includes requirements for permits to drill and to conduct other operations and for provision of financial assurances (such as bonds) covering drilling and well operations. Other activities subject to regulation are: • the location and spacing of wells; • the unitization and pooling of properties; • the method of drilling and completing wells; • the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; • the plugging and abandoning of wells; • the disposal of fluids used or other wastes generated in connection with our drilling operations; • the marketing, transportation and reporting of production; and • the valuation and payment of royalties. 27 Table of Contents Under these laws, we could be subject to claims for personal injury or property damages, including natural resource damages, which may result from the impacts of our operations. Failure to comply with these laws also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our costs of compliance. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We must obtain governmental permits and approvals for our drilling and midstream operations, which can be a costly and time consuming process, which may result in delays and restrictions on our operations. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time consuming and may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of our exploration or production operations. For example, we are often required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that proposed exploration for or production of natural gas or oil may have on the environment. Further, the public may comment on and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Accordingly, the permits we need may not be issued, or if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict our ability to conduct our operations or to do so profitably. Our operations expose us to substantial costs and liabilities with respect to environmental matters. Our oil, NGL and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the release of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with our drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas, including the habitat of threatened and endangered species, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution that may result from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations or the issuance of injunctions restricting or prohibiting certain activities. Under existing environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether the release resulted from our operations, or whether our operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, NGLs and natural gas that we produce. In December 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) present a danger to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic conditions. Based on these findings, in 2010 the EPA adopted two sets of regulations that restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act, including one that requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and another that requires certain construction and operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources. The stationary source final rule addresses the permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Clean Air Act Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or PSD, construction and Title V operating permit programs, pursuant to which these permit programs have been “tailored” to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. 28 Table of Contents In addition, in November 2010, the EPA issued a final rule requiring companies to report certain greenhouse gas emissions from oil and natural gas facilities. On July 19, 2011, the EPA amended the oil and natural gas facility greenhouse gas reporting rule to require reporting. Under this rule, initial reports became due in September 2012. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with these reporting obligations. The EPA has indicated that it will use GHG reporting data in considering whether to initiate further rulemaking to establish GHG emissions limits. Further, in April 2012 the EPA issued final New Source Performance Standards and National Emission Standards for Air Pollutants. This rule requires all new hydraulically fractured wells to reduce emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds through “green completions.” The rule is designed to reduce GHG emissions during well completions. The rule does, however, provide a transition period that ends January 1, 2015, during which operators will have the option of flaring emissions instead of using “green completion” technologies. Also, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states already have taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise restricts emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur significant added costs to reduce emissions of GHGs or could adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate change that could have significant physical effect, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress and related regulations could have an adverse impact on our ability to use derivative instruments, particularly swaps, to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Act, was enacted in 2010. The Act provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions, including certain oil and gas hedging transactions involving swaps. In particular, the Act includes a requirement that certain hedging transactions involving swaps be cleared and exchange-traded and a requirement to post cash collateral for non-cleared swap transactions, although, at this time, it is unclear which transactions will ultimately be required to be cleared and exchange-traded or which counterparties will be required to post cash collateral with respect to non-cleared swap transactions. The Act provides for a potential exception from the clearing and exchange-trading requirement for hedging transactions by commercial end-users, a category of non-financial entities in which we may be included. While the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, and other federal agencies have adopted, and continue to adopt, numerous regulations pursuant to the Act, many of the key concepts and defined terms under the Act have not yet been delineated by rules and regulations to be adopted by the CFTC and other applicable regulatory agencies. As a consequence, it is difficult to predict the aggregate effect the Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder may have on our hedging activities. Whether we are required to submit our swap transactions for clearing or post cash collateral with respect to such transaction will depend on the final rules and definitions adopted by the CFTC. If we are subject to such requirements, significant liquidity issues could result by reducing our ability to use cash posted as collateral for investment or other corporate purposes. A requirement to post cash collateral could also limit our ability to execute strategic hedges, which would result in increased commodity price uncertainty and volatility in our future cash flows. The Act and related regulations will also require us to comply with certain futures and swaps position limits and new recordkeeping and reporting requirements, and may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The Act and related regulations could also materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. 29 Table of Contents Enactment of a Pennsylvania severance tax and impact fees on natural gas could adversely impact our results of existing operations and the economic viability of exploiting new gas drilling and production opportunities in Pennsylvania. While Pennsylvania has historically not imposed a severance tax (relating to the extraction of natural gas), with a focus on its budget deficit and the increasing exploration of the Marcellus Shale, various legislation has been proposed since 2008. In February 2012, Pennsylvania implemented an impact fee. This new law imposed an impact fee on all unconventional wells drilled in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in counties that elected to impose the fee. The fee, which changes from year to year, is based on the average annual price of natural gas as determined by the NYMEX price, as reported by the Wall Street Journal for the last trading day of each calendar month. Based upon natural gas prices for 2012, operators will pay $45,000 per unconventional horizontal well. Unconventional vertical wells will pay a fee equal to twenty percent of the horizontal well fee and the impact fee will not apply to any unconventional vertical well that produces less than 90 Mcf per day. The payment structure for the impact fee makes the fee due the year after an unconventional well is spudded and the fee will continue for 15 years for a horizontal well and 10 years for a vertical well. Future economic conditions in the U.S. and global markets may have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The U.S. and other world economies continue to experience the after-effects of a global recession and credit market crisis. More volatility may occur before a sustainable growth rate is achieved either domestically or globally. Even if such growth rate is achieved, such a rate may be lower than the U.S. and international economies have experienced in the past. Global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including for oil and natural gas. A lower future economic growth rate will result in decreased demand for our crude oil, NGL and natural gas production as well as lower commodity prices, which will reduce our cash flows from operations and our profitability. Our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected by risks associated with our oil and gas financial derivative activities, and our oil and gas financial derivative activities may limit potential gains. We have entered into, and we expect to enter into in the future, oil and gas financial derivative arrangements corresponding to a significant portion of our oil and natural gas production. Many derivative instruments that we employ require us to make cash payments to the extent the applicable index exceeds a predetermined price, thereby limiting our ability to realize the benefit of increases in oil and natural gas prices. We received net payments of $16.2 million in relation to our commodity derivative instruments for the year ended December 31, 2012. If our actual production and sales for any period are less than the corresponding volume of derivative contracts for that period (including reductions in production due to operational delays), or if we are unable to perform our activities as planned, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative obligations without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. In addition, our oil and gas financial derivative activities can result in substantial losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including any circumstance in which a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable derivative arrangement, the arrangement is imperfect or our derivative policies and procedures are not followed or do not work as planned. Under the terms of our revolving credit facility, the percentage of our total production volumes with respect to which we will be allowed to enter into derivative contracts is limited, and we therefore retain the risk of a price decrease for our remaining production volume. 30 Table of Contents The Standardized Measure and PV-10 of our estimated reserves are not accurate estimates of the current fair value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and natural gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. Our non-GAAP financial measure, PV-10, is a similar reporting convention that we have disclosed in this report. Both measures require the use of operating and development costs prevailing as of the date of computation. Consequently, they will not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and natural gas production because of varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and natural gas properties. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor, which is required by the rules and regulations of the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our company or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Therefore, Standardized Measure or PV-10 included in this report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current fair value of our proved reserves. Based on December 31, 2012 reserve estimates, we project that a 10% decline in the price per barrel of oil, price per barrel of NGLs and the price per Mcf of gas from average 2012 prices would reduce our gross revenues, before the effects of derivatives, for the year ending December 31, 2013 by approximately $15.5 million. We depend on a relatively small number of purchasers for a substantial portion of our revenue. The inability of one or more of our purchasers to meet their obligations may adversely affect our financial results. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from sales to a relatively small number of purchasers. Approximately 95.3% of our commodity sales from continuing operations as of December 31, 2012 were due from five customers, with the largest single customer accounting for 48.1%. If we were unable to continue to sell our oil, NGLs, or natural gas to these key customers, or to offset any reduction in sales to these customers by additional sales to our other customers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These companies may not provide the same level of our revenue in the future for a variety of reasons, including their lack of funding, a strategic shift on their part in moving to different geographic areas in which we do not operate or our failure to meet their performance criteria. The loss of all or a significant part of this revenue would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may suffer if we lose key personnel. Our operations depend on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and senior management. Our business or prospects could be adversely affected if any of these persons does not continue in their management role with us and we are unable to attract and retain qualified replacements. Additionally, we do not carry key person insurance for any of our executive officers or senior management. Our future acquisitions may yield revenue or production that varies significantly from our projections. In pursuing potential acquisition of oil and natural gas properties, we will assess the potential recoverable reserves, future natural gas and oil prices, operating costs, potential liabilities and other factors relating to the properties. Our assessments are necessarily inexact, and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. Our review of a subject property in connection with our acquisition assessment will not reveal all existing or potential problems or permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the property to assess fully its deficiencies and capabilities. We may not inspect every well, and we may not be able to observe structural and environmental problems even when we do inspect a well. If problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of those problems. Any acquisition of property interests may not be economically successful, and unsuccessful acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Congress has recently considered, is considering, and may continue to consider, legislation that, if adopted in its proposed or similar form, would deprive some companies involved in oil and natural gas exploration and production activities of certain U.S. federal income tax incentives and deductions currently available to such companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective and whether such changes may apply retroactively. Although we are unable to predict whether any of these or other proposals will ultimately be enacted, the passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available to us, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete. The oil and gas industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. These matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. No assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We may issue additional common stock in the future, which would dilute our existing stockholders. In the future we may issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, including shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our stockholders. We are authorized under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 100,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences, and rights as may be determined by our board of directors. As of March 7, 2013, there were 53,228,771 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding and there were no shares of our preferred stock issued and outstanding. We have an effective shelf registration statement from which additional shares of our common stock and other securities can be issued. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in connection with future public offerings, the hiring of personnel, 32 Table of Contents future acquisitions, future private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. Future issuances of our common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors and our Chairman and other executive officers, who collectively beneficially own approximately 15% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of March 7, 2013. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us and changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of our common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval; • the ability of our board of directors to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws without further stockholder approval; • the requirement for advance notice of director nominations to our board of directors and for proposing other matters to be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • requiring that special meetings of stockholders be called only by our Chairman, by a majority of our board of directors, by our Chief Executive Officer or by our President; and • allowing our directors, and not our stockholders, to fill vacancies on the board of directors, including vacancies resulting from removal or enlargement of the board of directors. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. As of March 7, 2013, our board of directors, including Lance T. Shaner, our Chairman, and our other executive officers collectively own approximately 15% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Although this is not a majority of our outstanding common stock, these stockholders, acting together, will have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. The provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law, and the concentrated ownership of our common stock by our Chairman and other executive officers, could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investments. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and investment opportunities. In addition, our senior credit facility limits the payment of dividends without the prior written consent of the lenders. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur. 33 Table of Contents We are able to issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our stockholders. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividends, liquidation rights, or voting rights. If we issue preferred stock, it may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Substantial sales of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline. If our stockholders sell a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the public market perceives that our stockholders might sell shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities by our stockholders would have on the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this filing, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 