ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating our company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Company A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. The prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • the actions of certain foreign states; • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; • political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting other oil producing activities; • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; • the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • production or pricing decisions made by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC); • weather conditions; • availability of limited refining facilities in the Illinois Basin reducing competition and resulting in lower regional oil prices than other U.S. oil producing regions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Our reserve base is heavily weighted towards oil producing properties many of which are utilizing or proposed for secondary recovery methods characterized by higher operating costs than many other types of fields such as those in their primary recovery stage or natural gas fields. The higher operating costs associated with many of our oil fields will make our profitability more sensitive to oil price declines. Lower prices will also negatively impact the value and quantity of our proved and unproved projects. A substantial or extended decline in oil or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. Enhanced Oil Recovery, or EOR, techniques that we may use, such as our Alkali-Surfactant-Polymer flooding in the Lawrence Field, involve more risk than traditional waterflooding. EOR techniques such as alkali-surfactant-polymer, or ASP, chemical injection involve significant capital investment and an extended period of time, generally a year or longer, from the initial phase of a pilot program until increased production occurs. Our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project is in its very early stages and the 16 Table of Contents results of our pilot program could be unsuccessful. In addition, the results of any successful pilot program may not be indicative of actual results achieved in a broader EOR project in the same field or area. Generally, surfactant polymer, including ASP, injection is regarded as involving more risk than traditional waterflood operations. The potential reserves associated with our ASP project in the Lawrence Field are not considered proved. Our ability to achieve commercial production and recognize proved reserves from our EOR projects is greatly contingent upon many inherent uncertainties associated with EOR technology, including ASP technology, geological uncertainties, chemical and equipment availability, rig availability and many other factors. We have limited experience in drilling wells to the Marcellus Shale and less information regarding reserves and decline rates in the Marcellus Shale than in other areas of our Appalachian operations. Wells drilled to the Marcellus Shale will be deeper, more expensive and more susceptible to mechanical problems in drilling and completing than wells in the other areas. We have limited experience in drilling wells to the Marcellus Shale. As of December 31, 2007, we have not drilled any wells to the Marcellus Shale. Other operators in the Appalachian Basin also have limited experience in drilling wells to the Marcellus Shale. Thus, we have much less information with respect to the ultimate recoverable reserves and the production decline rate in the Marcellus Shale than we have in our other areas of operation. In addition, the wells to be drilled in the Marcellus Shale will be drilled deeper than in our other primary areas, which make the Marcellus Shale wells more expensive to drill and complete. The wells will also be more susceptible to mechanical problems associated with the drilling and completion of the wells, such as casing collapse and lost equipment in the wellbore. In addition, the fracturing of the Marcellus Shale will be more extensive and complicated than fracturing the geological formations in our other areas of operation. Absent a sufficient level of vertical fracturing in the shale acreage we control, our New Albany Shale projects may not be successful. New Albany Shale reservoirs are complex, often containing unusual features that are not well understood by drillers and producers. These formations are believed to contain natural fractures. Results of past drilling in these formations have been mixed and are generally believed to be related to whether or not a particular well bore intersects vertical fractures. Certain areas in the New Albany Shale will be more heavily fractured than others. If our acreage is not subject to the level of natural fracturing that we expect, our plan for horizontal drilling would not yield our expected results and our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. A significant part of the value of our production and reserves is concentrated in the Illinois Basin. Because of this concentration, any production problems or changes in assumptions affecting our proved reserve estimates related to these areas could have a material adverse impact our business. For the year ended December 31, 2007, 76% of our net daily production came from the Illinois Basin area, and, as of December 31, 2007, approximately 75% of our proved reserves were located in the fields that comprise this area. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 54% of our net daily production came from the Lawrence Field, and, as of December 31, 2007, approximately 53% of our proved reserves were located on this property. Moreover, we plan to allocate approximately 21% of our 2008 capital expenditures to our Lawrence Field ASP Flood Project. If mechanical problems, weather conditions or other events were to curtail a substantial portion of this production, our cash flow could be adversely affected. If ultimate production associated with these properties is less than our estimated reserves, or changes in pricing, cost or recovery assumptions in the area results in a downward revision of any estimated reserves in these properties, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents We depend on a relatively small number of purchasers for a substantial portion of our revenue. The inability of one or more of our purchasers to meet their obligations or the loss of our market with Countrymark Cooperative, LLP, in particular, may adversely affect our financial results. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a relatively small number of purchasers. All of the oil we produce in the Illinois Basin is sold to one refinery, Countrymark Cooperative, LLP. The revenue we received from sales of our oil to Countrymark Cooperative, LLP for the year ended December 31, 2007, constituted approximately 82% of our total oil and natural gas sales revenue for such period. Our inability to continue to provide services to key customers, if not offset by additional sales to our other customers, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These companies may not provide the same level of our revenue in the future for a variety of reasons, including their lack of funding, a strategic shift on their part in moving to different geographic areas in which we do not operate or our failure to meet their performance criteria. The loss of all or a significant part of this revenue would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. PennTex Illinois and Rex Operating are defendants in a putative class action lawsuit concerning complaints of hydrogen sulfide emissions from the Lawrence Field, which could expose us to monetary damages or settlement costs. PennTex Illinois and Rex Operating are defendants in a putative class action lawsuit asserting that the operation of oil wells that are controlled, owned or operated by PennTex Illinois and Rex Operating has resulted in contamination of the areas surrounding Bridgeport and Petrolia, Illinois, with hydrogen sulfide, or H2S. The complaint, as amended, asserts several causes of action, including violation of the Illinois Environmental Protection Act, violation of the federal Resource Conservation And Recovery Act, negligence, private nuisance, trespass, and willful and wanton misconduct. The complaint seeks, among other things, injunctive relief under the Illinois Environmental Protection Act and Illinois common law, compensatory and other damages, punitive damages, and attorneys’ fees and costs. In addition, the complaint seeks the creation of a court-supervised, defendant-financed fund to pay for medical monitoring for the plaintiffs and others in the class area. The plaintiffs have filed a motion for class certification requesting that the court certify the case as a class action. We intend to vigorously oppose the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification and the claims that have been asserted by the plaintiffs’ against PennTex Illinois and Rex Operating in this lawsuit. If, however, as a result of this lawsuit, we are required to pay significant monetary damages or settlement costs in excess of any insurance proceeds, our financial position and results of operations could be substantially harmed. (For more information regarding the putative class action lawsuit, please see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”) Our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected by risks associated with our oil and gas financial derivative activities, and our oil and gas financial derivative activities may limit potential gains. We have entered into, and we expect to enter into in the future, oil and gas financial derivative arrangements corresponding to a significant portion of our oil and natural gas production. Many derivative instruments that we employ require us to make cash payments to the extent the applicable index exceeds a predetermined price, thereby limiting our ability to realize the benefit of increases in oil and natural gas prices. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, we incurred realized losses of $6,198,387 from our financial derivatives, which effectively reduces our total revenues from our oil and gas sales. Please read “Item 7.—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements.” If our actual production and sales for any period are less than the corresponding volume of derivative contracts for that period (including reductions in production due to operational delays) or if we are unable to perform our activities as planned, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative obligations without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. In addition, our oil and gas financial derivative activities can result in 18 Table of Contents substantial losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including any circumstance in which a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable derivative arrangement, the arrangement is imperfect or our derivative policies and procedures are not followed or do not work as planned. Under the terms of our senior credit facility with KeyBank National Association, the percentage of our total production volumes with respect to which we will be allowed to enter into derivative contracts is limited, and we therefore retain the risk of a price decrease for our remaining production volume. If oil and natural gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties, potentially triggering earlier-than-anticipated repayments of any outstanding debt obligations and negatively impacting the trading value of our securities. There is a risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties, which would reduce our earnings and stockholders’ equity. We account for our natural gas and crude oil exploration and development activities using the successful efforts method of accounting. Under this method, costs of productive exploratory wells, developmental dry holes and productive wells and undeveloped leases are capitalized. Oil and gas lease acquisition costs are also capitalized. Exploration costs, including personnel costs, certain geological and geophysical expenses and delay rentals for oil and gas leases, are charged to expense as incurred. Exploratory drilling costs are initially capitalized, but charged to expense if and when the well is determined not to have found reserves in commercial quantities. The capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties may not exceed the estimated future net cash flows from our properties. If capitalized costs exceed future cash flows, we write down the costs of the properties to our estimate of fair market value. Any such charge will not affect our cash flow from operating activities, but it will reduce our earnings and stockholders’ equity. A write down could occur if oil and gas prices decline or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our drilling results. Because our properties currently serve, and will likely continue to serve, as collateral for advances under our existing and future credit facilities, a write-down in the carrying values of our properties could require us to repay debt earlier than we would otherwise be required. It is likely that the cumulative effect of a write-down could also negatively impact the value of our securities, including our common stock. The application of the successful efforts method of accounting requires managerial judgment to determine the proper classification of wells designated as developmental or exploratory, which will ultimately determine the proper accounting treatment of the costs incurred. The results from a drilling operation can take considerable time to analyze and the determination that commercial reserves have been discovered requires both judgment and industry experience. Wells may be completed that are assumed to be productive but may actually deliver oil and gas in quantities insufficient to be economic, which may result in the abandonment of the wells at a later date. Wells are drilled that have targeted geologic structures that are both developmental and exploratory in nature and an allocation of costs is required to properly account for the results. The evaluation of oil and gas leasehold acquisition costs requires judgment to estimate the fair value of these costs with reference to drilling activity in a given area. We review our oil and gas properties for impairment whenever events and circumstances indicate a decline in the recoverability of their carrying value. Once incurred, a write down of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date even if gas or oil prices increase. Given the complexities associated with oil and gas reserve estimates and the history of price volatility in the oil and gas markets, events may arise that would require us to record an impairment of the recorded book values associated with oil and gas properties. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our 19 Table of Contents control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Please read “—Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves” for a discussion of the uncertainties involved in these processes. Our costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures could be materially and adversely affected by any factor that may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • oil and natural gas property title problems; and • market limitations for oil and natural gas. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves. To prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and the timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; • actual cost of development and production expenditures; • the amount and timing of actual production; 20 Table of Contents • supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation. There is no way to predict with certainty in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies, and the study of producing fields in the same area, will not enable us to know conclusively before drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercially viable quantities. Moreover, the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields may not be applicable to our drilling prospects. We cannot control activities on properties that we do not operate and are unable to control their proper operation and profitability. We do not operate all of the properties in which we own an interest. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, the operations of these properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements or an operator’s failure to act in ways that are in our best interests could reduce our production and revenues. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s: • nature and timing of drilling and operational activities; • timing and amount of capital expenditures; • expertise and financial resources; • the approval of other participants in drilling wells; and • selection of suitable technology. If our access to markets is restricted, it could negatively impact our production, our income and ultimately our ability to retain our leases. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. Our productive properties may be located in areas with limited or no access to pipelines, thereby necessitating delivery by other means, such as trucking, or requiring compression facilities. Such restrictions on our ability to sell our oil or natural gas may have several adverse affects, including higher transportation costs, fewer potential purchasers (thereby potentially resulting in a lower selling price) or, in the event we were unable to market and sustain production from a particular lease for an extended time, possibly causing us to lose a lease due to lack of production. 21 Table of Contents Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future acquisitions may yield revenues or production that vary significantly from our projections. In acquiring producing properties, we will assess the recoverable reserves, future natural gas and oil prices, operating costs, potential liabilities and other factors relating to the properties. Our assessments are necessarily inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. Our review of a subject property in connection with our acquisition assessment will not reveal all existing or potential problems or permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the property to assess fully its deficiencies and capabilities. We may not inspect every well, and we may not be able to observe structural and environmental problems even when we do inspect a well. If problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of those problems. Any acquisition of property interests may not be economically successful, and unsuccessful acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration for, and development, production and acquisition of, oil and natural gas reserves. To date, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with proceeds from bank borrowings and cash generated by operations. We intend to finance our capital expenditures with the sale of equity, asset sales, cash flow from operations and current and new financing arrangements. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which oil and natural gas are sold; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may need to seek additional financing in the future. In addition, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. Also, our credit facility contains covenants that restricts our ability to, among other things, materially change our business, approve and distribute dividends, enter into transactions with affiliates, create or acquire additional subsidiaries, incur indebtedness, sell assets, make loans to others, make investments, enter into mergers, incur liens, and enter into agreements regarding swap and other derivative transactions. 22 Table of Contents The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our exploration and development plans within our budget. With the increase in the prices of oil and natural gas during the past few years, we have encountered an increase in the cost of securing drilling rigs, equipment and supplies. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel are expected to continue in the near-term. In addition, larger producers may be more likely to secure access to such equipment by offering more lucrative terms. If we are unable to acquire access to such resources, or can obtain access only at higher prices, our ability to convert our reserves into cash flow could be delayed and the cost of producing those reserves could increase significantly, which would adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations, and we may not have enough insurance to cover all of the risks that we face. We maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses to protect against the risks we face. We do not carry business interruption insurance. We may elect not to carry insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, it is not possible to insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapses; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, then that accident or other event could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our business may suffer if we lose key personnel. Our operations depend on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and senior management. Our business or prospects could be adversely affected if any of these persons does not continue in his management role with us and we are unable to attract and retain qualified replacements. Additionally, we do not carry key person insurance for any of our executive officers or senior management. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to complex laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. The exploration, development, production and sale of oil and natural gas are subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations. We may incur substantial expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations, which may require: • discharge permits for drilling operations; • drilling bonds; • reports concerning operations; • the spacing of wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; and • the payment of taxes. Under these laws, we could be subject to claims for personal injury or property damages, including natural resource damages, which may result from the impacts of our operations. Failure to comply with these laws also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our costs of compliance. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations expose us to substantial costs and liabilities with respect to environmental matters. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the release of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with our drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution that may result from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations or injunctive relief. Under existing environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether the release resulted from our operations, or our operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours, which can be particularly important in the areas in which we operate. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. 24 Table of Contents Being a public company has increased our expenses and administrative workload. We completed our initial public offering in July 2007. As a public company, we must comply with various laws and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and requirements of NASDAQ. We were not required to comply with all of these laws and requirements before our initial public offering. Complying with these laws and regulations requires the time and attention of our board of directors and management and increases our expenses. Among other things, we must: • maintain and evaluate a system of internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; • maintain policies relating to disclosure controls and procedures; • prepare and distribute periodic reports in compliance with our obligations under federal securities laws; • institute a more comprehensive compliance function, including with respect to corporate governance; and • involve to a greater degree our outside legal counsel and accountants in the above activities. In addition, being a public company has made it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. In the future, we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain this coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executives and members of our board of directors, particularly directors willing to serve on our audit committee. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock has only been publicly traded since July 30, 2007 and the price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since then and may fluctuate substantially in the future. Our common stock has only been publicly traded since our initial public offering on July 30, 2007. The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since then. From July 30, 2007 to March 28, 2008, the closing trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $7.75 per share to a high of $17.69 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: • changes in oil and natural gas prices; • variations in quarterly drilling, recompletions, acquisitions and operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations of comparable companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • future sales of our stock; or • other factors discussed in the “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report. We may fail to meet expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock. We may in the future issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders and purchasers of common stock offered hereby. We are 25 Table of Contents authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 100,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and rights as may be determined by our board of directors. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors and our Chairman and other executive officers, which collectively beneficially own approximately 52% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of March 31, 2008. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws will have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • The ability of the board to issue shares of our common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval; • The ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our bylaws without further stockholder approval; • The requirement for advance notice for nominations for directors to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • Stockholders may not take action by written consent. In addition, we are subject the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. In addition, Lance T. Shaner, our Chairman, beneficially owns approximately 41%, and our other executive officers collectively own approximately 11%, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law, and this concentrated ownership of our common stock by our Chairman and executive officers could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investments. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and investment opportunities. In addition, our senior credit facility limits the payment of dividends without the prior written consent of the lenders. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 26 Table of Contents 