Risk Factors—We depend on pipelines owned by others to transport and sell our natural gas production. Disruption of, capacity constraints in, or proximity to pipeline systems could limit sales of our natural gas,” in Item 1A of this report. 11 Table of Contents Through our joint venture with Keystone Midstream, we have constructed a high pressure gathering system and a cryogenic gas processing plant in Butler County, Pennsylvania. The cryogenic gas processing plant services our wells and third-party wells in areas that produce natural gas with a high BTU content. The cryogenic gas processing plant decreases the BTU level of the gas to appropriate levels for distribution through a standard sales line. The by-products of the cryogenic gas processing plant are natural gas liquids which are marketed separately. We are currently in the planning stage for a second cryogenic gas processing plant in and around our Butler County, Pennsylvania operations. For further information on our midstream services, see Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation, to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely based on, among other things, supply and demand. Supply and demand are influenced by a number of factors, including weather, foreign policy, industry practices and the U.S. and worldwide economic climate. Oil and natural gas markets have historically been cyclical and volatile in nature as a result of many factors that are beyond our control. There can be no assurance of what price we will be able to sell our oil and natural gas. Prices may be low when our wells are most productive, thereby reducing overall returns. We enter into derivative transactions with unaffiliated third parties to achieve more predictable cash flows and to reduce our exposure to short-term fluctuations in oil and gas prices. For a more detailed discussion, see the information set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Governmental Regulations Our oil and natural gas exploration, production, and related operations are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory oversight by federal, state, tribal and local authorities. We must, for example, obtain drilling permits, post bonds for drilling, operating, and reclamation, and submit various reports. The following activities are also subject to regulation: the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface development, use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, the plugging and abandoning of wells, temporary storage tank operations, air emissions from flaring, compression and access roads, the impoundment of water, the manner and extent of earth disturbances, air emissions, sour gas management, the disposal of fluids used in connection with operations, and the calculation and distribution of royalty payments and production taxes. We must also comply with statutes and regulations addressing conservation matters, including the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties and the establishment of maximum rates of production. Failure to comply with any of these requirements can result in substantial monetary penalties or lease cancellation. Finally, in the past tribal and local authorities have imposed moratoria or other restrictions on exploration and production activities that must be addressed before those activities can proceed. The increasing regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry will most likely increase our cost of doing business and may affect our production rates. Although we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, because such rules and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted, we are unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying with such laws. We may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce has been regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (“NGPA”), and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”). In the past, the federal government has regulated the prices at which oil and gas could be sold. Deregulation of wellhead sales in the natural gas industry began with the enactment of the NGPA. In 1989, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act was enacted, removing both price and non-price controls from natural gas sold in “first sales” no later than January 1, 1993. While sales by producers of natural gas, and all sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids currently can be made at uncontrolled market prices, Congress could reenact price controls in the future. 12 Table of Contents The FERC regulates interstate natural gas transportation rates and service conditions. Its regulations affect the marketing of natural gas produced by us, as well as the revenues that may be received by us for sales of such production. Since the mid-1980s, FERC has issued a series of orders, collectively, Order 636, that have significantly altered the marketing and transportation of natural gas. Order 636 mandated a fundamental restructuring of interstate pipeline sales and transportation service, including the unbundling by interstate pipelines of the sale, transportation, storage and other services such pipelines previously performed. One of FERC’s purposes in issuing Order 636 was to increase competition within the natural gas industry. Generally, Order 636 has eliminated or substantially reduced the interstate pipelines’ traditional role as wholesalers of natural gas in favor of providing only storage and transportation service, and has substantially increased competition and volatility in natural gas markets. The price we receive from the sale of oil and natural gas liquids will be affected by the cost of transporting products to markets. Effective January 1, 1995, FERC implemented regulations establishing an indexing system for transportation rates for oil pipelines, which, generally, index such rates to inflation, subject to certain conditions and limitations. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, of these regulations on our intended operations. The regulations may, however, increase transportation costs or reduce well head prices for oil and natural gas liquids. Environmental Matters Our operations and properties are subject to extensive and changing federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations: • require the acquisition of permits or other authorizations before construction, drilling and certain other of our activities; • limit or prohibit construction, drilling and other activities on specified lands within wilderness and other protected areas; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution that may result from our operations. The permits required for our operations may be subject to revocation, modification and renewal by issuing authorities. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce environmental laws and regulations, and violations may result in fines, injunctions or even criminal penalties. Some states continue to adopt new regulations and permit requirements, which may impede or delay our operations or increase our costs. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with current applicable environmental laws and regulations, and, except for those matters described in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings,” have no material commitments for capital expenditures to comply with existing environmental requirements. Nevertheless, the trend in environmental legislation and regulation generally is toward stricter standards, and we expect that this trend will continue. Changes in existing environmental laws and regulations or in interpretations of these laws and regulations could have a significant impact on us, as well as the oil and natural gas industry as a whole. The following is a summary of the existing laws and regulations that could have a material impact on our business operations. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, or RCRA, and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the federal Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration and production of crude oil or natural gas are currently regulated under RCRA’s non-hazardous waste provisions. However, it is possible that certain oil and natural gas exploration and production wastes now classified as 13 Table of Contents non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. Any such change could result in an increase in our costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Comprehensive Environmental, Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended, or CERCLA, and comparable state statutes impose strict liability on owners and operators of sites and on persons who disposed of or arranged for the disposal of “hazardous substances” found at these sites. This liability may be joint and several and include liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or other pollutants into the environment. We currently own, lease, or operate numerous properties that have been used for oil and natural gas exploration and production, and produced water disposal operations for many years. Although we believe that we have utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties that we own or lease, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where these substances have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of our properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons was not under our control. These properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA, and analogous state laws. Under these laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, or to perform remedial activities to prevent future contamination. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, or the Clean Water Act, and analogous state laws, impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the Clean Water Act and analogous state laws and regulations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production operations generate produced water as a waste material, which is subject to the disposal requirements of the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, or SDWA, or an equivalent state regulatory program. This produced water is disposed of by re-injection into the subsurface through disposal wells, treatment and discharge to the surface or in evaporation ponds. Whichever disposal method is used, produced water must be disposed of in compliance with permits issued by regulatory agencies, and in compliance with applicable environmental regulations. This water can sometimes be disposed of by discharging it under discharge permits issued pursuant to the Clean Water Act or an equivalent state program. Another common method of produced water disposal is subsurface injection in disposal wells. Such disposal wells are permitted under the SDWA, or an equivalent state regulatory program. To date, we believe that all necessary surface discharge or disposal well permits have been obtained and that the produced water has been discharged into the produced water disposal wells in substantial compliance with such obtained permits and applicable laws and regulations. The Federal Clean Air Act, and comparable state laws, regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. In addition, the EPA has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the Federal Clean Air Act and associated state laws and regulations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent and costly reporting, waste handling, storage, transport, disposal, or cleanup requirements could materially adversely affect our operations and financial position, as well as those of the oil and gas industry in 14 Table of Contents general. For example, recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. In response to such studies, the U.S. Congress is actively considering climate change-related legislation to restrict greenhouse gas emissions. The ultimate outcome of this legislative initiative remains uncertain. At least 17 states have passed laws, adopted regulations or undertaken regulatory initiatives to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the U.S. Congress may act on climate change legislation or how federal legislation may be reconciled with state and regional requirements, any future federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and NGLs that we produce. On June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, or ACESA, which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the United States, including carbon dioxide and methane. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for controlling and reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the Senate may act on climate change legislation, how any bill passed by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, or how federal legislation may be reconciled with state and regional requirements, any future federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and NGLs that we produce. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court held in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA that greenhouse gas emissions may be regulated as an “air pollutant” under the federal Clean Air Act. On December 15, 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allowed the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Since 2009, the EPA has issued regulations that, among other things, require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and that impose greenhouse gas emission limitations in Clean Air Act permits for certain stationary sources. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. On November 9, 2010 the EPA expanded its greenhouse reporting rule to include onshore petroleum and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution facilities. Under these rules, reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from such facilities is required on an annual basis, with reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed legislation or regulations will be adopted as initially written, if at all, or how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. Any additional costs or operating restrictions associated with legislation or regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, these developments could curtail the demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect demand for our products and services, which may in turn adversely affect our future results of operations. Available Information We maintain an internet website under the name “www.rexenergy.com.” We make available, free of charge, on our website, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after providing such reports to the Securities 15 Table of Contents and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our Corporate Governance Policy, the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee, and the Code of Ethics for directors, officers, employees and financial officers are also available on our website and in print to any stockholder who provides a written request to the Corporate Secretary at 476 Rolling Ridge Drive, Suite 300, State College, PA 16801. We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Rex Energy Corporation, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any document we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report or any other filing that we make with the SEC. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating our company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Company Future economic conditions in the U.S. and global markets may have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The U.S. and other world economies are still recovering from a recession which began in 2008 and extended into 2009. While economic growth has resumed, the timing and extent of an economic recovery are uncertain. There are likely to be significant long-term effects resulting from the recession and credit market crisis, including a future global economic growth rate that is slower than what was experienced in previous years. Unemployment rates remain high and businesses and consumer confidence levels have not yet fully recovered to pre-recession levels. In addition, more volatility may occur before a sustainable, yet lower, growth rate is achieved. Global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including for oil and natural gas. A lower future economic growth rate will result in decreased demand growth for our crude oil and natural gas production as well as lower commodity prices, which will reduce our cash flows from operations and our profitability. Volatility in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and our ability to meet our capital expenditure obligations and financial commitments. The prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil and natural gas are commodities, and therefore their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • the current uncertainty in the global economy; • changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • the condition of the U.S. and global economy; • the actions of certain foreign states; • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas; • political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting other oil producing activities; • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity; • the level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • production or pricing decisions made by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”); • weather conditions; • availability of limited refining facilities in the Illinois Basin reducing competition and resulting in lower regional oil prices than in other U.S. oil producing regions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. The higher operating costs associated with 17 Table of Contents many of our oil fields will make our profitability more sensitive to oil price declines. A sustained decline in oil or natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. Enhanced Oil Recovery, or EOR, techniques that we may use, such as our Alkali-Surfactant-Polymer flooding in the Lawrence Field, involve more risk than traditional waterflooding. An EOR technique such as alkali-surfactant-polymer, or ASP, chemical injection involves significant capital investment and an extended period of time, generally a year or longer, from the initial phase of a pilot program until increased production occurs. The results of any successful pilot program may not be indicative of actual results achieved in a broader EOR project in the same field or area. Generally, surfactant polymer, including ASP, injection is regarded as involving more risk than traditional waterflood operations. The potential reserves associated with our ASP project in the Lawrence Field are not considered proved. Our ability to achieve commercial production and recognize proved reserves from our EOR projects is greatly contingent upon many inherent uncertainties associated with EOR technology, including ASP technology, geological uncertainties, chemical and equipment availability, rig availability and many other factors. If our access to markets is restricted, it could negatively impact our production, our income and ultimately our ability to retain our leases. Our ability to sell natural gas and/or receive market prices for our natural gas may be adversely affected by pipeline and gathering system capacity constraints. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. Our productive properties may be located in areas with limited or no access to pipelines, thereby necessitating delivery by other means, such as trucking, or requiring compression facilities. Such restrictions on our ability to sell our oil or natural gas may have several adverse effects, including higher transportation costs, fewer potential purchasers (thereby potentially resulting in a lower selling price) or, in the event we were unable to market and sustain production from a particular lease for an extended time, possibly causing us to lose a lease due to lack of production. If drilling in the Marcellus Shale areas continues to be successful, the amount of natural gas being produced by us and others could exceed the capacity of the various gathering and intrastate or interstate transportation pipelines currently available in these areas. If this occurs, it will be necessary for new pipelines and gathering systems to be built. Because of the current economic climate, certain pipeline projects that are planned for the Marcellus Shale area may not occur for lack of financing. In addition, capital constraints could limit our ability to build intrastate gathering systems necessary to transport our gas to interstate pipelines. In such event, we might have to shut in our wells awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity and/or sell natural gas production at significantly lower prices than those quoted on NYMEX or than we currently project, which would adversely affect our results of operations. A portion of our natural gas and oil production in any region may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents, loss of pipeline or gathering system access, field labor issues or strikes, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could temporarily adversely affect our cash flow. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our Marcellus Shale drilling operations or are unable to dispose of the water we use at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce gas commercially and in commercial quantities could be impaired. We use between three and four million gallons of water per well in our Marcellus Shale well completion operations. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or dispose of water after drilling, could adversely impact our operations. Moreover, the adoption and implementation of new environmental regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. Furthermore, new environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may also increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Changes contained in President Obama’s 2012 budget proposal include the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such changes could be effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of the budget proposal, or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Enactment of a Pennsylvania severance tax on natural gas could adversely impact our results of existing operations and the economic viability of exploiting new gas drilling and production opportunities in Pennsylvania. As a result of a funding gap in the Pennsylvania state budget due to significant declines in anticipated revenue, a bill has been introduced in the Pennsylvania House of Representatives to adopt a severance tax on the production of natural gas in Pennsylvania. The amount of the proposed tax is five percent of the value of the natural gas at the wellhead, plus 4.6 cents per thousand cubic feet of natural gas severed. All of our Marcellus Shale acreage is located in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. If Pennsylvania adopts such a severance tax, it could adversely impact our results of existing operations and the economic viability of exploiting new gas drilling and production opportunities in Pennsylvania. All of the value of our production and reserves is concentrated in the Illinois Basin and Appalachian Basin. Because of this concentration, any production problems or changes in assumptions affecting our proved reserve estimates related to these areas could have a material adverse impact our business. For the year ended December 31, 2010, 56.1% of our net daily production came from the Illinois Basin area and 43.9% came from the Appalachian Basin. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 24.2% of our proved reserves were located in the fields that comprise the Illinois Basin and 75.8% of our proved reserves were a result of our Appalachian Basin operations. If mechanical problems, weather conditions or other events were to curtail a substantial portion of the production in one or both of these regions, our cash flow would be adversely affected. If ultimate production associated with these properties is less than our estimated reserves, or changes in pricing, cost or recovery assumptions in the area results in a downward revision of any estimated reserves in these properties, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents We depend on a relatively small number of purchasers for a substantial portion of our revenue. The inability of one or more of our purchasers to meet their obligations or the loss of our market with CountryMark Cooperative, LLP, in particular, may adversely affect our financial results. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a relatively small number of purchasers. While a portion of our oil in the Illinois Basin is sold through an offload facility, a majority of the oil is sold to one refinery, CountryMark Cooperative, LLP. The revenue we received from sales of our oil to CountryMark Cooperative, LLP for the year ended December 31, 2010, constituted approximately 77% of our total oil and natural gas sales revenue from continuing operations for such period. Our inability to continue to provide services to key customers, if not offset by additional sales to our other customers, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These companies may not provide the same level of our revenue in the future for a variety of reasons, including their lack of funding, a strategic shift on their part in moving to different geographic areas in which we do not operate or our failure to meet their performance criteria. The loss of all or a significant part of this revenue would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected by risks associated with our oil and gas financial derivative activities, and our oil and gas financial derivative activities may limit potential gains. We have entered into, and we expect to enter into in the future, oil and gas financial derivative arrangements corresponding to a significant portion of our oil and natural gas production. Many derivative instruments that we employ require us to make cash payments to the extent the applicable index exceeds a predetermined price, thereby limiting our ability to realize the benefit of increases in oil and natural gas prices. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, we incurred realized gains of $0.8 million from our financial derivatives. Please read “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” If our actual production and sales for any period are less than the corresponding volume of derivative contracts for that period (including reductions in production due to operational delays), or if we are unable to perform our activities as planned, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative obligations without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. In addition, our oil and gas financial derivative activities can result in substantial losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including any circumstance in which a counterparty does not perform its obligations under the applicable derivative arrangement, the arrangement is imperfect or our derivative policies and procedures are not followed or do not work as planned. Under the terms of our senior credit facility with KeyBank National Association, the percentage of our total production volumes with respect to which we will be allowed to enter into derivative contracts is limited, and we therefore retain the risk of a price decrease for our remaining production volume. If oil and natural gas prices decline, we may be required to take additional write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties, potentially triggering earlier-than-anticipated repayments of any outstanding debt obligations and negatively impacting the trading value of our securities. There is a risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties, which would reduce our earnings and stockholders’ equity. We account for our natural gas and crude oil exploration and development activities using the successful efforts method of accounting. Under this method, costs of productive exploratory wells, developmental dry holes and productive wells and undeveloped leases are capitalized. Oil and gas lease acquisition costs are also capitalized. Exploration costs, including personnel costs, certain geological and geophysical expenses and delay rentals for oil and gas leases are charged to expense as incurred. Exploratory drilling costs are initially capitalized, but charged to expense if and when the well is determined not to have found reserves in commercial quantities. The capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties may not exceed the estimated future net cash flows from our properties. If capitalized costs exceed future cash flows, we write down the costs of the properties to our estimate of fair market value. Any such charge will not affect our cash flow from operating activities, but will reduce our earnings and stockholders’ equity. 20 Table of Contents Additional write downs could occur if oil and gas prices decline or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our drilling results. Because our properties currently serve, and will likely continue to serve, as collateral for advances under our existing and future credit facilities, a write-down in the carrying values of our properties could require us to repay debt earlier than we would otherwise be required. It is likely that the cumulative effect of a write-down could also negatively impact the value of our securities, including our common stock. The application of the successful efforts method of accounting requires managerial judgment to determine the proper classification of wells designated as developmental or exploratory, which will ultimately determine the proper accounting treatment of the costs incurred. The results from a drilling operation can take considerable time to analyze and the determination that commercial reserves have been discovered requires both judgment and industry experience. Wells may be completed that are assumed to be productive but may actually deliver oil and gas in quantities insufficient to be economic, which may result in the abandonment of the wells at a later date. Wells are drilled that have targeted geologic structures that are both developmental and exploratory in nature, and an allocation of costs is required to properly account for the results. The evaluation of oil and gas leasehold acquisition costs requires judgment to estimate the fair value of these costs with reference to drilling activity in a given area. We review our oil and gas properties for impairment annually or whenever events and circumstances indicate a decline in the recoverability of their carrying value. Once incurred, a write down of oil and gas properties is not reversible at a later date even if gas or oil prices increase. Given the complexities associated with oil and gas reserve estimates and the history of price volatility in the oil and gas markets, events may arise that would require us to record an impairment of the book values associated with oil and gas properties. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our exploitation, exploration, development and production activities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or natural gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Please read “Item 1A. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves” below for a discussion of the uncertainties involved in these processes. Our costs of drilling, completing and operating wells are often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures could be materially and adversely affected by any factor that may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; • unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; • pipe or cement failures; • casing collapses; 21 Table of Contents • lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; • loss of drilling fluid circulation; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas and fluids; • fires and natural disasters; • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; • adverse weather conditions; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • oil and natural gas property title problems; and • market limitations for oil and natural gas. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves. To prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and the timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; • actual cost of development and production expenditures; • the amount and timing of actual production; • supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. 22 Table of Contents The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or natural gas in commercially viable quantities. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation. There is no way to predict with certainty in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable, particularly in light of the current economic environment. The use of seismic data and other technologies, and the study of producing fields in the same area, will not enable us to know conclusively before drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercially viable quantities. Moreover, the analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields may not be applicable to our drilling prospects. We cannot control activities on properties that we do not operate and are unable to control their proper operation and profitability. We do not operate all of the properties in which we own an interest. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, the operations of these properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements or an operator’s failure to act in ways that are in our best interests could reduce our production and revenues. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s: • nature and timing of drilling and operational activities; • timing and amount of capital expenditures; • expertise and financial resources; • the approval of other participants in drilling wells; and • selection of suitable technology. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future acquisitions may yield revenue or production that varies significantly from our projections. In acquiring producing properties, we will assess the recoverable reserves, future natural gas and oil prices, operating costs, potential liabilities and other factors relating to the properties. Our assessments are necessarily inexact, and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. Our review of a subject property in connection with our acquisition assessment will not reveal all existing or potential problems or permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the property to assess fully its deficiencies and capabilities. We may not inspect every well, and we may not be able to observe structural and environmental problems even when we do inspect a well. If problems 23 Table of Contents are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of those problems. Any acquisition of property interests may not be economically successful, and unsuccessful acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration for, and development, production and acquisition of, oil and natural gas reserves. To date, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with proceeds from bank borrowings, cash generated by operations, public stock offerings, sales of non-core assets and joint venture agreements. We intend to finance our capital expenditures with proceeds from bank borrowings, the sale of debt or equity securities, asset sales, cash flow from operations and current and new financing arrangements, such as joint ventures. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which oil and natural gas are sold; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may need to seek additional financing in the future. In addition, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. Also, our credit facility contains covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things, materially change our business, approve and distribute dividends, enter into transactions with affiliates, create or acquire additional subsidiaries, incur indebtedness, sell assets, make loans to others, make investments, enter into mergers, incur liens, and enter into agreements regarding swap and other derivative transactions. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our exploration and development plans within our budget. We may, from time to time, encounter difficulty in obtaining, or an increase in the cost of securing, drilling rigs, equipment, services and supplies. In addition, larger producers may be more likely to secure access to such equipment and services by offering more lucrative terms. If we are unable to acquire access to such resources, or can obtain access only at higher prices, our ability to convert our reserves into cash flow could be delayed and the cost of producing those reserves could increase significantly, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on pipelines owned by others to transport and sell our natural gas production. Disruption of, capacity constraints in, or proximity to pipeline systems could limit sales of our natural gas. In many instances, we transport our natural gas to market by utilizing pipelines owned by others. If pipelines do not exist near our producing wells, if pipeline capacity is limited or if pipeline capacity is unexpectedly curtailed or disrupted, we may have to reduce sales of our production of gas because we do not have facilities to store excess inventory. If this occurs, our revenues will be reduced, and our unit costs will also increase. In addition, if pipeline gas quality requirements change for a pipeline, we might be required to install additional processing equipment, which could increase our costs. If this should occur, the pipeline could curtail our gas flows until the gas delivered to their pipeline is in compliance. 24 Table of Contents New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete. The oil and gas industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and natural gas operations, and we may not have enough insurance to cover all of the risks that we face. We maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses to protect against the risks we face. We do not carry business interruption insurance. We may elect not to carry insurance if our management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, it is not possible to insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapses; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to us. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, then that accident or other event could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business may suffer if we lose key personnel. Our operations depend on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and senior management. Our business or prospects could be adversely affected if any of these persons does not continue in their management role with us and we are unable to attract and retain qualified replacements. Additionally, we do not carry key person insurance for any of our executive officers or senior management. 25 Table of Contents We are subject to complex laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. The exploration, development, production and sale of oil and natural gas are subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations. Such regulation includes requirements for permits to drill and to conduct other operations and for provision of financial assurances (such as bonds) covering drilling and well operations. Other activities subject to regulation are: • the location and spacing of wells; • the unitization and pooling of properties; • the method of drilling and completing wells; • the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; • the plugging and abandoning of wells; • the disposal of fluids used or other wastes generated in connection with our drilling operations; • the marketing, transportation and reporting of production; and • the valuation and payment of royalties. Under these laws, we could be subject to claims for personal injury or property damages, including natural resource damages, which may result from the impacts of our operations. Failure to comply with these laws also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our costs of compliance. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We must obtain governmental permits and approvals for our drilling and mid-stream operations, which can be a costly and time consuming process, which may result in delays and restrictions on our operations. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time consuming and may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of our exploration or production operations. For example, we are often required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that proposed exploration for or production of natural gas or oil may have on the environment. Further, the public may comment on and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Accordingly, the permits we need may not be issued, or if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict our ability to conduct our operations or to do so profitably. Our operations expose us to substantial costs and liabilities with respect to environmental matters. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the release of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with our drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution that may result from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations or injunctive relief. Under existing environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether the release resulted from our operations, or our operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. 26 Table of Contents Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (“SDWA”) to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of unconventional natural gas wells in shale formations. This process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production. Sponsors of two companion bills, which are currently pending in the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater or cause other damage. In addition, this legislation, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens. The adoption of any future federal or state laws or implementing regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult and more expensive to complete natural gas wells in shale formations and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Additionally, in March 2010, the EPA announced its intention to conduct a comprehensive research study on the potential adverse impacts that hydraulic fracturing may have on water quality and public health. The initial study results are expected to be available in late 2012. Thus, even if the pending bills are not adopted, the EPA study, depending on its results, could spur further initiatives to regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, natural gas and NGLs that we produce. A variety of regulatory developments, proposals or requirements and legislative initiatives have been introduced in the United States that are focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. For example, the U.S. Congress is actively considering climate change-related legislation to restrict greenhouse gas emissions. The ultimate outcome of this legislative initiative remains uncertain. At least 17 states have passed laws, adopted regulations or undertaken regulatory initiatives to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the U.S. Congress may act on climate change legislation or how federal legislation may be reconciled with state and regional requirements, any future federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the oil, natural gas and NGLs that we produce. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court held in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA that greenhouse gas emissions may be regulated as an “air pollutant” under the federal Clean Air Act. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allowed the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Since 2009, the EPA has issued regulations that, among other things, require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and that impose of greenhouse gas emission limitations in Clean Air Act permits for certain stationary sources. In 27 Table of Contents addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. On November 9, 2010 the EPA expanded its greenhouse reporting rule to include onshore petroleum and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution facilities. Under these rules, reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from such facilities is required on an annual basis, with reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed legislation or regulations will be adopted as initially written, if at all, or how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. Any additional costs or operating restrictions associated with legislation or regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, these developments could curtail the demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect demand for our products and services, which may in turn adversely affect our future results of operations. The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The United States Congress recently adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which, among other provisions, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. The new legislation was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010 and requires the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. The CFTC has also proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets, although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the CFTC will adopt those rules or include comparable provisions in its rulemaking under the new legislation. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with registration, business conduct, reporting, capital margin requirements, and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours, which can be particularly important in the areas in which we operate. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. 28 Table of Contents The outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. We are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. These matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. No assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We may issue additional common stock in the future, which would dilute our existing stockholders. In the future we may issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, including shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our stockholders. We are authorized under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 100,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences, and rights as may be determined by our board of directors. As of March 2, 2011, there were 44,312,714 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding and there were no shares of our preferred stock issued and outstanding. We have an effective shelf registration statement from which additional shares of our common stock and other securities can be issued. In addition, we may also issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future private placements of our securities for capital raising purposes or for other business purposes. Future issuances of our common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors and our Chairman and other executive officers, who collectively beneficially own approximately 22% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of March 2, 2011. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us and changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of our common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval; • the ability of our board of directors to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws without further stockholder approval; • the requirement for advance notice of director nominations to our board of directors and for proposing other matters to be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • requiring that special meetings of stockholders be called only by our Chairman, by a majority of our board of directors, by our Chief Executive Officer or by our President; and • allowing our directors, and not our stockholders, to fill vacancies on the board of directors, including vacancies resulting from removal or enlargement of the board of directors. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. 29 Table of Contents As of March 2, 2011, our board of directors, including Lance T. Shaner, our Chairman, and our other executive officers collectively own approximately 22% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Although this is not a majority of our outstanding common stock, these stockholders, acting together, will have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. The provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law, and the concentrated ownership of our common stock by our Chairman and other executive officers, could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investments. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and investment opportunities. In addition, our senior credit facility limits the payment of dividends without the prior written consent of the lenders. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur. We are able to issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our stockholders. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividends, liquidation rights, or voting rights. If we issue preferred stock, it may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this filing, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 