Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business operates in a highly competitive environment where typically there are no long-term contracted sources of revenue and clients can terminate engagements with us at any time Our business operates in a highly competitive environment where typically there are no long-term contracted sources of revenue. Each revenue-generating engagement typically is separately solicited, awarded and negotiated. In addition, many businesses do not routinely engage in transactions requiring our services. As a consequence, our fee-paying engagements with many clients are not likely to be predictable and high levels of revenue in one period are not necessarily predictive of continued high levels of revenue in future periods. We also lose clients each year as a result of the sale or merger of a client, a change in a client's senior management, competition from other firms and other causes. As a result, our revenue could decline materially due to such changes in the volume, nature and scope of our engagements. Further, many of our engagements depend upon transactions, disputes, or proceedings that involve our clients. Our clients may decide at any time to abandon the transaction, resolve the dispute or proceeding or file for bankruptcy. Our engagements can therefore terminate suddenly and without advance notice to us. If an engagement is terminated unexpectedly, our client service professionals working on the engagement could be underutilized until we assign them to other projects. In addition, because much of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature, our client service professionals' utilization depends on our ability to secure engagements on a continual basis. Accordingly, the termination or significant reduction in the scope of a single large engagement could have an immediate adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations. The financial advisory and investment banking industries are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively The financial advisory industry is extremely competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change and we expect it to remain so in the future. The industry includes a large number of participants with a variety of skills and industry expertise, including the consulting practices of major accounting firms, financial consulting firms, technical and economic advisory firms, general management consulting firms, regional and specialty consulting firms and the internal professional resources of organizations. Our competitors vary depending on the particular practice group. In addition, we also expect to continue to face competition from new entrants because the barriers to entry into financial advisory services are relatively low. The principal competitive factors in the financial advisory market include firm and professional reputations, client and referral source relationships, the ability to attract and retain top professionals, the ability to manage engagements effectively and the ability to be responsive and provide high quality services. There is also competition on price. Many of our competitors have greater national and international presences, as well as significantly greater personnel, financial, technical and marketing resources. In addition, these competitors may generate greater revenues and have greater name recognition than we do. If we are unable to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with any new competitors, our financial results will be adversely affected. Further, in connection with our acquisition of the CVC business, we entered into a non-competition agreement with PwC, which prohibited PwC from offering certain services that are currently offered by us. This non-competition agreement terminated in the third quarter of 2006. It is difficult to predict the effect, if any, on our business, of PwC's reentry into the marketplace. Given the relatively short period of time that has transpired since the expiration of the non-competition agreement, it is unclear to us to what extent PwC will devote its resources to its reentry into the valuation advisory marketplace and the level of success PwC may have in this marketplace. Should PwC be successful in reentering the valuation advisory marketplace, such reentry could have a material impact on our business. The investment banking industry is extremely competitive and we expect it to remain so in the future. Most of our competitors in the investment banking industry have a greater range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more managing directors to serve their clients' needs, greater global reach and more established relationships with their customers than we have. These larger and better capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the investment banking market, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS growth and to compete for market share generally. In particular, the ability to provide financing as well as advisory services has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors, and because we are unable to provide such financing we may be unable to compete for advisory clients in a significant part of the investment banking market. Our inability to hire and retain talented people in an industry where there is great competition for talent could have a serious negative effect on our prospects and results of operations Our business involves the delivery of professional services and is highly labor-intensive. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Competition for qualified professionals in the financial advisory and investment banking industries is intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively in our business depends on our ability to attract new professionals and to retain and motivate our existing professionals. The loss of a significant number of our professionals or the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain additional skilled personnel could have a serious negative effect on us, including our ability to manage, staff and successfully complete our existing engagements and obtain new engagements. Increasing competition for these individuals may also significantly increase our labor costs, which could negatively affect our margins and results of operations. Our inability to retain our senior management team and other key personnel would be detrimental to our business We rely heavily on our senior management team and other key personnel, and our ability to retain them is particularly important to our business. Given the highly specialized nature of our services, these people must have a thorough understanding of our service offerings as well as the skills and experience necessary to manage an organization consisting of a diverse group of professionals. In addition, we rely on our senior management team and other key personnel to generate and market our business. Many of our key personnel do not have employment contracts with us. Any of our key personnel, including those with written employment contracts, may voluntarily terminate his or her employment with us. If one or more members of our senior management team or our other managing directors leave and we cannot replace them with a suitable candidate quickly, we could experience difficulty in securing and successfully completing engagements and managing our business properly, which could harm our business prospects and results of operations. In addition, the loss of these personnel could jeopardize our relationships with clients and result in the loss of client engagements. Declines in the global financial markets may materially and adversely affect our business As a financial advisory and investment banking firm, our business segments are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world. For example, revenue generated by our M&A advisory, transaction opinions and purchase price allocation practice groups is directly related to the volume and value of the M&A transactions for which we provide service. During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the volume and value of M&A transactions may decrease, thereby reducing the demand for our services and increasing price competition among financial advisory firms seeking such engagements. Our results of operations would be adversely affected by any such reduction in the volume or value of M&A transactions. Our profitability could also be adversely affected by our fixed costs and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back other costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in revenue relating to changes in market and economic conditions. The future market and economic climate may deteriorate because of many factors beyond our control, and any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the global financial services markets, which could potentially result in reduced demand for our services. These factors include, among other things, economic and political conditions in the United States and elsewhere in the world, wavering corporate/consumer confidence levels, the availability of cash for investment by mutual funds and other institutional as well as retail investors, and legislative and regulatory changes. Beginning in July 2007, there has been a significant disruption in world financial markets, principally in the credit markets, which has impacted M&A activity, particularly among private equity buyers. If this disruption continues, it could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS Revenues from our success-based engagements are difficult to predict, and the timing and extent of recovery of our costs is uncertain From time to time, primarily in our Investment Banking segment, we enter into engagement agreements under which our fees include a significant success-based component. Success-based fees are contingent on the achievement of certain goals, such as the successful completion of a transaction or restructuring. In many cases we are not paid for advisory engagements that do not result in the successful consummation of a transaction or restructuring, other than the reimbursement of certain out-of-pocket expenses and, in some cases, a modest retainer. The achievement of these contractually-defined goals is often impacted by factors outside of our control, such as market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. For example, a client could delay or terminate an acquisition transaction because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or shareholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or because the target's business is experiencing unexpected financial problems. Anticipated bidders for assets of a client during a restructuring transaction may not materialize or our client may not be able to restructure its operations or indebtedness due to a failure to reach agreement with its principal creditors. Because success-based fees are contingent, revenues on such engagements, which are recognized when all revenue recognition criteria are met, are not certain and the timing of receipt is difficult to predict and may not occur evenly throughout the year. We intend to continue to enter into success-based fee arrangements and these engagements could impact our revenues to a greater extent in the future. Should success-based fee arrangements represent a greater percentage of our business in the future, we may experience increased volatility in our working capital requirements and greater variations in our quarter-to-quarter results, which could affect the price of our Class A common stock. Our financial results could suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and suitable billing rates for our client service professionals Our profitability depends to a large extent on the utilization and billing rates of our client service professionals in our Financial Advisory segment. Utilization of our client service professionals is affected by a number of factors, including, among other things, the number and size of client engagements, the timing of the commencement, completion and termination of engagements, which in many cases is unpredictable, our ability to transition our client service professionals efficiently from completed engagements to new engagements, the hiring of additional client service professionals (because there is generally a transition period for new client service professionals that may result in a temporary drop in our utilization rate, which may be the result of restrictions imposed by non-compete or other similar agreements with the professional's former employer), unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements, our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate level of client service professionals, and conditions affecting the industries in which we practice as well as general economic conditions. The billing rates of our client service professionals in our Financial Advisory segment are also affected by a number of factors, including, among other things, our clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services, the market demand for the services we provide, introduction of new services by us or our competitors, the pricing policies of our competitors and general economic conditions. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate overall utilization as well as maintain or increase the billing rates for our professionals, our financial results could materially suffer. The profitability of our fixed-fee engagements with clients may not meet our expectations if we underestimate the cost of these engagements When making proposals for fixed-fee engagements, we estimate the costs and timing for completing the engagements. These estimates reflect our best judgment regarding the efficiencies of our methodologies and client service professionals as we plan to deploy them on engagements. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of fixed-fee engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which would have an adverse effect on our profit margin. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS Fees earned in connection with assignments in the bankruptcy context may be subject to challenge and reduction From time to time we advise debtors or creditors of companies which are involved in bankruptcy proceedings in the United States Bankruptcy Courts. Under the applicable rules of those courts, our fees are subject to approval by the court and other interested parties have the ability to challenge the payment of those fees. Fees earned and reflected in our revenues may from time to time be subject to successful challenges, which could result in a reduction of revenues and affect our stock price adversely. We have incurred losses and may incur losses in the future, which may impact our ability to implement our business strategy and adversely affect our financial condition We incurred a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2005 and for the period from October 4 to December 31, 2007. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable or generate sufficient profits from operations in the future. We may experience a loss in one or more future periods, which may impact our ability to implement our business strategy and adversely affect our financial condition. Fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and results of operations could depress the market price of our common stock We may experience significant fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations from one quarter to the next. If our revenues or net income in a quarter fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our Class A common stock could fall significantly. Our results of operations in any quarter can fluctuate for many reasons, including the number, scope, and timing of ongoing client engagements, the extent to which we can reassign our client service professionals efficiently from one engagement to the next, the extent to which our client service professionals take holiday, vacation, and sick time, hiring, the extent of fee discounting or cost overruns, and other factors affecting productivity and collectability of receivables and unbilled work in process. Because we generate a substantial portion of our revenues from advisory services that we provide on a time-and-materials basis, our revenues in any period are directly related to the number of our client service professionals, their billing rates, and the number of billable hours they work in that period. We have a limited ability to increase any of these factors in the short term. Accordingly, if we underutilize our client service professionals during one part of a fiscal period, we may be unable to compensate by augmenting revenues during another part of that period. In addition, we are occasionally unable to fully utilize any additional client service professionals that we hire, particularly in the quarter in which we hire them. Moreover, a significant majority of our operating expenses, primarily office rent and salaries, are fixed in the short term. As a result, if our revenues fail to meet our projections in any quarter, that could have a disproportionate adverse effect on our net income. For these reasons, we believe our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of our future performance. Our clients may be unable to pay us for our services Our clients include some companies that may from time to time encounter financial difficulties. If a client's financial difficulties become severe, the client may be unwilling or unable to pay our invoices in the ordinary course of business, which could adversely affect collections of both our accounts receivable and unbilled services. On occasion, some of our clients have entered bankruptcy, which has prevented us from collecting amounts owed to us. The bankruptcy of a client with a substantial account receivable could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if a client declares bankruptcy after paying us certain invoices, a court may determine that we are not properly entitled to that payment and may require repayment of some or all of the amount we received, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Potential conflicts of interest may preclude us from accepting some engagements We provide our services primarily in connection with significant or complex transactions, disputes, or other matters that usually involve sensitive client information or are adversarial. Our engagement by a client may preclude us from accepting engagements with the client's competitors or adversaries because of conflicts, 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS or perceived conflicts, between their business interests or positions on disputed issues or other reasons. Accordingly, the nature of our business limits the number of both potential clients and potential engagements. Moreover, in many industries in which we provide services, there has been a continuing trend toward business consolidations and strategic alliances. These consolidations and alliances reduce the number of potential clients for our services and increase the chances that we will be unable to continue some of our ongoing engagements or accept new engagements as a result of actual or perceived conflicts of interest. Our ability to maintain and attract new business depends upon our reputation, the professional reputation of our client service professionals and the quality of our services As a professional services firm, our ability to secure new engagements depends heavily upon our reputation and the individual reputations of our client service professionals. Any factor that diminishes our reputation or that of our client service professionals, including not meeting client expectations or misconduct by our client service professionals, could make it substantially more difficult for us to attract new engagements and clients. Similarly, because we obtain many of our new engagements from former or current clients or from referrals by those clients or by law, accounting or investment banking firms with whom we have worked in the past, any client that questions the quality of our work or that of our client service professionals could impair our ability to secure additional new engagements and clients. Our intellectual property rights in our Duff & Phelps name are important, and any inability to use that name could negatively impact our ability to build brand identity We believe that establishing, maintaining and enhancing the Duff & Phelps name is important to our business. Pursuant to a name use agreement between us and Phoenix Duff & Phelps Corporation, a subsidiary of Phoenix Life Insurance Company, we have the perpetual exclusive right to use the Duff & Phelps name in connection with capital raising, M&A services, corporate valuations, fairness opinions, strategic financial consulting, capital adequacy opinions and certain other investment banking businesses. It is possible that we and Phoenix Duff & Phelps Corporation could disagree on whether certain types of our businesses are covered by the name use agreement. If Phoenix Duff & Phelps Corporation were to successfully challenge our right to use our name, or if we were unable to prevent a competitor from using a name that is similar to our name, our ability to build brand identity could be negatively impacted. In addition, if Phoenix Duff & Phelps Corporation is involved in any misconduct or illegal act, our reputation could be negatively impacted. Our engagements could result in professional liability, which could be very costly and hurt our reputation Our engagements typically involve complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment. As a result, we are subject to the risk of professional liability. If a client questions the quality of our work, the client could threaten or bring a lawsuit to recover damages or contest its obligation to pay our fees. Litigation alleging that we performed negligently or breached any other obligations to a client could expose us to significant legal liabilities and, regardless of outcome, is often very costly, could distract our management and could damage our reputation. In addition, third parties may allege reliance on our work which could expose us to additional lawsuits and potential liability. We are not always able to include provisions in our engagement agreements that are designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services. Even if these limiting provisions are included in an engagement agreement, they may not protect us or may not be enforceable under some circumstances. In addition, we carry professional liability insurance to cover many of these types of claims, but the policy limits and the breadth of coverage may be inadequate to cover any particular claim or all claims plus the cost of legal defense. For example, we provide services on engagements in which the impact on a client may substantially exceed the limits of our professional liability coverage. If we are found to have professional liability with respect to work performed on such an engagement, we may not have sufficient insurance to cover the entire liability. If the number of debt defaults, bankruptcies or other factors affecting demand for our restructuring advisory services declines, or we lose business to new entrants into the restructuring advisory business that are no longer precluded from offering such services due to changes to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, our restructuring advisory business' revenue could suffer We provide various financial restructuring and related advice to companies in financial distress or to their creditors or other stakeholders. A number of factors affect demand for these advisory services, including 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS general economic conditions, the availability and cost of debt and equity financing and changes to laws, rules and regulations, including deregulation or privatization of particular industries and those that protect creditors. Section 327 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which requires that a “disinterested person” be employed in a restructuring, has been modified pursuant to the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005. The “disinterested person” definition of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code had historically disqualified certain of our competitors, but had not often disqualified us from obtaining a role in restructurings because we are not an underwriter of securities or lender. However, the 2005 amendment to the “disinterested person” definition allows underwriters of securities to compete for restructuring engagements, as well as for the recruitment and retention of restructuring professionals. If our competitors are retained in new restructuring engagements, our restructuring advisory business, and thereby our results of operations, could be adversely affected. Legal and regulatory restrictions on our clients may reduce the demand for our services New laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may adversely affect our businesses. For example, changes in antitrust enforcement could affect the level of M&A activity and changes in regulation could restrict the activities of our clients and their need for the types of advisory services that we provide to them. Changes in laws, regulations or accounting standards may adversely affect our business As an independent financial advisory firm, we have benefited from the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which substantially limits the scope of non-audit services that public accounting firms, such as the big four, can provide to their audit clients. Additionally, we have benefited from increased sensitivity among investors, managers and boards to auditor conflicts, which we believe has limited the engagement of public accounting firms to perform even permissible non-audit services. However, changes in the federal securities laws, changes in judicial interpretations of these laws or less vigorous enforcement of these laws, as a result of changes in political appointments or priorities or for other reasons, or reduced sensitivity among investors, managers and boards to auditor conflicts, could substantially reduce the limitations on public accounting firms to provide non-audit services, including the services that we provide or may provide in the future. Increased competition from accounting firms could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, it is possible that increased sensitivity among investors or changes in regulations could lead to limits that would adversely impact us by creating real or perceived `conflicts` among the various services we provide to our clients. Further, the demand for a substantial portion of our business is generated by financial reporting requirements under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) or International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). For example, the demand for our purchase price allocation services is primarily driven by the requirement under SFAS 141 that, in a business combination, the acquiring company allocates the purchase price to individual tangible assets as well as intangible assets and liabilities, based on fair value. Therefore, the demand for our services could decrease as a result of any future changes in accounting standards and our financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected by any future changes in accounting standards. We are subject to extensive regulation in the financial services industry We participate in the financial services industry, and are subject to extensive regulation in the United States, the United Kingdom and elsewhere. Duff & Phelps Securities, LLC, our subsidiary through which we provide our M&A advisory services, is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and is a member firm of FINRA. Accordingly, the conduct and activities of Duff & Phelps Securities, LLC are subject to the rules and regulations of, and oversight by the SEC, FINRA, and other self-regulatory organizations which are themselves subject to oversight by the SEC. State securities regulators also have regulatory or oversight authority over Duff & Phelps Securities, LLC. Duff & Phelps Securities, Ltd., our subsidiary, is registered with the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom. Our business may also be subject to regulation by non-U.S. governmental and regulatory bodies and self-regulatory authorities in other countries where we operate. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS conduct our business. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities. In addition, as a result of highly publicized financial scandals, the environment in which we operate may be subject to further regulation. New laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may also adversely affect our business. See “ — Legal and regulatory restrictions on our clients may reduce the demand for our services” and “Business — Regulation.” Our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail Our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with or through whom we conduct business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise. We do not have fully redundant systems, and our disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of all services. Nearly all of our personnel in our primary locations work in close proximity to each other. If a disruption occurs in one location and our personnel in that location are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients and customers may suffer and we may not be able to implement successfully contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. Our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this could jeopardize our or our clients’ or counterparties' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients', our counterparties' or third parties' operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. Our historical financial information may not be comparable to our results for future periods The historical financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not necessarily indicative of our future results of operations, financial position and cash flows. For example, our historical financial data does not reflect the CVC, Chanin or Rash acquisitions prior to the dates of such acquisitions. Acquisitions may disrupt our operations or adversely affect our results We regularly evaluate opportunities to acquire other businesses. The expenses we incur evaluating and pursuing acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we acquire a business, such as our acquisitions of CVC, Chanin and Rash, we may be unable to manage it profitably or successfully integrate its operations with our own. Moreover, we may be unable to realize the financial, operational, and other benefits we anticipate from acquisitions. Competition for future acquisition opportunities in our markets could increase the price we pay for businesses we acquire and could reduce the number of potential acquisition targets. Further, acquisitions may involve a number of special financial and business risks, including expenses related to any potential acquisition from which we may withdraw, diversion of our management's time, attention, and resources, decreased utilization during the integration process, loss of key acquired personnel, difficulties in integrating diverse corporate cultures, increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial, operational, financial, and administrative systems including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, dilutive issuances of equity securities, including convertible debt securities, the assumption of legal liabilities, amortization of acquired intangible assets, potential write-offs related to the impairment of goodwill, and additional conflicts of interest. If we are unable to manage the growth of our business successfully, we may not be able to sustain profitability We have grown significantly in recent years, increasing the number of our client service professionals from 509 at December 31, 2005 to 844 at December 31, 2007. As we continue to increase the number of our 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS client service professionals, we may not be able to successfully manage a significantly larger workforce. Additionally, our significant growth has placed demands on our management and our internal systems, procedures and controls and will continue to do so in the future. To successfully manage growth, we must add administrative staff and periodically update and strengthen our operating, financial, accounting and other systems, procedures and controls, which will increase our costs and could adversely affect our profitability if we do not generate increased revenues to offset the costs. Expanding our service offerings or number of offices may not be profitable and our failure to manage expansion successfully could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations We may choose to develop new service offerings or open new offices because of market opportunities or client demands. Developing new service offerings involves inherent risks, including our inability to estimate demand for the new service offerings, competition from more established market participants, a lack of market understanding, and unanticipated expenses to recruit and hire qualified client service professionals and to market and provide our new service offerings. In addition, expanding into new geographic areas and/or expanding current service offerings is challenging and may require integrating new client service professionals into our culture as well as assessing the demand in the applicable market. Expansion creates new and increased management and training responsibilities for our professionals. Expansion also increases the demands on our internal systems, procedures, and controls, and on our managerial, administrative, financial, marketing, and other resources. New responsibilities and demands may adversely affect the overall quality of our work. If we cannot manage the risks associated with new service offerings or new locations effectively, we are unlikely to be successful in these efforts, which could harm our ability to sustain profitability and our business prospects. Our international operations create special risks We intend to continue our international expansion, and our international revenues could account for an increasing portion of our revenues in the future. Our international operations carry special financial and business risks, including greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations, cultural differences that result in lower utilization, currency fluctuations that adversely affect our financial position and operating results, unexpected changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers, greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, longer sales cycles, restrictions on the repatriation of earnings, potentially adverse tax consequences, such as trapped foreign losses, less stable political and economic environments, and civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity. If our international revenues increase relative to our total revenues, these factors could have a more pronounced effect on our operating results. Employee misconduct could harm us and is difficult to detect and deter There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our company. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. Our business often requires that we deal with confidences of the greatest significance to our clients, the improper use of which may have a material adverse impact on our clients. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. Any breach of our clients' confidences as a result of employee misconduct could impair our ability to attract and retain clients. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Our only material asset is our ownership of D&P Acquisitions, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from D&P Acquisitions to pay dividends, if any, taxes and other expenses D&P Corporation is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of New Class A Units. D&P Corporation has no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause D&P Acquisitions to make distributions to its unitholders in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable and 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent that we need funds, and D&P Acquisitions is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. D&P Corporation is controlled by the existing unitholders of D&P Acquisitions, whose interests may differ from those of our public shareholders The existing unitholders of D&P Acquisitions currently control approximately 61% of the combined voting power of our Class A and Class B common stock. Accordingly, the existing unitholders of D&P Acquisitions, if voting in the same manner, have the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors, and thereby to control our management and affairs. In addition, they are able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors, and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. In addition, the existing unitholders of D&P Acquisitions currently own approximately 61% of the New Class A Units. Because they hold their ownership interest in our business through D&P Acquisitions, rather than through the public company, these existing unitholders may have conflicting interests with holders of our Class A common stock. For example, the existing unitholders of D&P Acquisitions may have different tax positions from us which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, and whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the tax receivable agreement (See “Tax Receivable Agreement” in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these existing unitholders' tax considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us. We are required to pay the existing unitholders of D&P Acquisitions for certain tax benefits we may claim arising in connection with the IPO Transactions We are treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as having directly purchased membership interests in D&P Acquisitions from the existing unitholders in connection with the Redemption. In the future, additional New Class A Units may be exchanged for shares of our Class A common stock. As a result of both this initial purchase and these additional exchanges of New Class A Units, we are and will be entitled to a proportionate share of D&P Acquisitions' existing tax basis for its assets, and are and we will also become entitled to certain tax basis adjustments reflecting the difference between the price we pay to acquire those units and that proportionate share. As a result, the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future may be reduced, although the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) may challenge all or part of that tax basis adjustment, and a court could sustain such a challenge. We have entered into a tax receivable agreement with the existing unitholders of D&P Acquisitions that provides for the payment by us to them of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we realize as a result of (i) D&P Acquisitions' tax basis in its goodwill and similar intangible assets on the date of the Redemption, including any portion of that tax basis arising from its liabilities on the date of the Redemption, and (ii) the tax basis adjustments referred to above. While the actual amount of the adjusted tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the basis of our proportionate share of D&P Acquisitions' assets on the dates of exchanges, the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our Class A common stock at the time of each exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the deductions and other adjustments to taxable income to which D&P Acquisitions is entitled, the amount of liabilities of D&P Acquisitions in existence on the date of the Redemption and future exchanges, and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that during the anticipated term of the tax receivable agreement, the payments that we may make to the existing unitholders of D&P Acquisitions could be substantial. Payments under the tax receivable agreement will give rise to additional tax benefits and therefore to additional potential payments under the tax receivable agreement. In addition, the tax receivable agreement will provide for interest accrued from the due date (without extensions) of the corresponding tax return to the date of payment under the agreement. Were the IRS to challenge a tax basis adjustment, or other deductions or adjustments to taxable income of D&P Acquisitions, the existing unitholders of D&P Acquisitions will not reimburse us for any payments 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS Sthat may previously have been made under the tax receivable agreement, except that excess payments made to an existing unitholder are netted against payments otherwise to be made, if any, after our determination of such excess. As a result, in certain circumstances we could make payments to the existing unitholders of D&P Acquisitions under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. Our ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis adjustment, or other deductions or adjustments to taxable income of D&P Acquisitions, and the payments to be made under this agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed above, including the timing and amount of our future income. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities identified by Lovell Minnick and Vestar Lovell Minnick and Vestar and their affiliates are in the business of providing buyout capital and growth capital to developing companies, and may acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for the allocation of certain corporate opportunities between us, on the one hand, and Lovell Minnick and Vestar, on the other hand. As set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, neither Lovell Minnick nor Vestar, nor any director, officer, stockholder, member, manager or employee of Lovell Minnick or Vestar has any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. Therefore, a director or officer of our company who also serves as a director, officer, member, manager or employee of Lovell Minnick or Vestar may pursue certain acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, such acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by Lovell Minnick or Vestar to themselves or their other affiliates instead of to us. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our shareholders The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our Class A common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our Class A common stock declines significantly, stockholders may be unable to sell their Class A common stock at or above their purchase price, if at all. We cannot make any assertions that the market price of our Class A common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our Class A common stock or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Class A common stock include: variations in our quarterly operating results; failure to meet our earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or the investment management industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our Class A common stock after this offering; additions or departures of our executive officers and other key management personnel; adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; actions by stockholders; changes in market valuations of similar companies; speculation in the press or investment community; changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; adverse publicity about the financial advisory industry generally or individual scandals, specifically; and general market and economic conditions. Our Class A common stock price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale and for exchange into Class A common stock The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our Class A common stock or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2007, we had 34,214,238 shares of outstanding Class A common stock on a fully diluted basis, assuming that all the New Class A Units outstanding after giving effect to the IPO Transactions held by existing unitholders of D&P Acquisitions are exchanged into shares of our Class A common stock. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS The existing unitholders of D&P Acquisitions have entered into an Exchange Agreement with D&P Acquisitions under which, from time to time, typically once a quarter, they will have the right to exchange with D&P Acquisitions their New Class A Units for shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to notice requirements and minimum retained ownership requirements, and subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for stock splits, stock dividends and reclassifications. The Exchange Agreement generally provides that (i) certain of our existing unitholders, including Vestar and Lovell Minnick, may elect to exchange with D&P Acquisitions 100% of their New Class A Units into shares of our Class A common stock after March 25, 2008, the end of the 180-day lock-up period following the date of the IPO (unless extended as provided in the Exchange Agreement); (ii) our executive unitholders may elect to exchange with D&P Acquisitions up to 20% of their New Class A Units into shares of our Class A common stock after the first anniversary of this offering, 40% of such New Class A Units after the second anniversary of the IPO, 60% of such New Class A Units after the third anniversary of the IPO, and 100% of such New Class A Units after the fourth anniversary of this offering, subject to the notice requirement; and (iii) our non-executive unitholders may elect to exchange with D&P Acquisitions up to one-third of their New Class A Units into shares of our Class A common stock after the first anniversary of the IPO, two-thirds of such New Class A Units after the second anniversary of the IPO, and 100% of such New Class A Units after the third anniversary of the IPO, subject to the notice requirements. As a result of the IPO Transactions and subsequent forfeitures, the existing unitholders of D&P Acquisitions hold 21,052,553 New Class A Units as of March 19, 2008, all of which will be potentially exchangeable with D&P Acquisitions for shares of our Class A common stock. These shares of Class A common stock and the shares of Class A common stock purchased by Shinsei in the Shinsei Investment, are “restricted securities,” as defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Rule 144”). However, effective upon the consummation of the IPO, we entered into a registration rights agreement with certain unitholders of D&P Acquisitions and Shinsei that requires us, under certain circumstances, to register under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”) these shares of Class A common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by permitting our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations, and placing limitations on convening stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law that restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management's attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the New York Stock Exchange rules promulgated in response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The requirements of these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will need to hire more staff to comply with these requirements, which will increase our costs. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of our board of directors. Additionally, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 