ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could materially suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business General economic conditions and volatility in the worldwide economy has adversely affected consumer spending, which is likely to negatively affect our business. Our operations and performance depend significantly on economic conditions, particularly those in Canada and the United States, and their impact on levels of consumer spending. Consumer spending on non-essential items is affected by a number of factors, including consumer confidence in the strength of economies, fears of recession, the tightening of credit markets, higher levels of unemployment, higher tax rates, the cost of consumer credit and other factors. The current volatility in the United States economy in particular has resulted in an overall slowing in growth in the retail sector because of decreased consumer spending, which may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. These unfavorable economic conditions may lead our customers to delay or reduce purchase of our products. In addition, we expect to experience reduced traffic in our stores and limitations on the prices we can charge for our products, which may include price discounts, either of which could reduce our sales and profit margins. Economic factors such as those listed above and increased transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, and changes in other laws and regulations may increase our cost of sales and our operating, selling, general and administrative expenses. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse affect on the demand for our products and on our financial conditions, operating results and stock price. We have grown rapidly in recent years and we have limited operating experience at our current scale of operations; if we are unable to manage our operations at our current size or to manage any future growth effectively, our brand image and financial performance may suffer. We have expanded our operations rapidly since our inception in 1998 and we have limited operating experience at our current size. We opened our first store in Canada in 1999 and our first store in the United States in 2003. Our net revenue increased from $40.7 million in fiscal 2004 to $353.5 million in fiscal 2008, representing a compound annual increase of approximately 71.6%. We expect our net revenue growth rate to slow as the number of new stores that we open in the future declines relative to our larger store base. Our substantial growth to date has placed a significant strain on our management systems and resources. If our operations continue to grow, of which there can be no assurance, we will be required to continue to expand our sales and marketing, product development and distribution functions, to upgrade our management information systems and other processes, and to obtain more space for our expanding administrative support and other headquarters personnel. Our continued growth could increase the strain on our resources, and we could experience serious operating difficulties, including difficulties in hiring, training and managing an increasing number of employees, difficulties in obtaining sufficient raw materials and manufacturing capacity to produce our products, and delays in production and shipments. These difficulties would likely result in the erosion of our brand image and lead to a decrease in net revenue, income from operations and the price of our common stock. We may not be able to successfully open new store locations in a timely manner, if at all, which could harm our results of operations. Our growth will largely depend on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores. Our ability to successfully open and operate new stores depends on many factors, including, among others, our ability to: • identify suitable store locations, the availability of which is outside of our control; • negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances; 10 Table of Contents • hire, train and retain store personnel and field management; • assimilate new store personnel and field management into our corporate culture; • source sufficient inventory levels; and • successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations and information technology systems. Successful new store openings may also be affected by our ability to initiate our grassroots marketing efforts in advance of opening our first store in a new market. We typically rely on our grassroots marketing efforts to build awareness of our brand and demand for our products. Our grassroots marketing efforts are often lengthy and must be tailored to each new market based on our emerging understanding of the market. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our grassroots marketing efforts in a particular market in a timely manner, if at all. Additionally, we may be unsuccessful in identifying new markets where our technical athletic apparel and other products and brand image will be accepted or the performance of our stores will be considered successful. Further, we will encounter pre-operating costs and we may encounter initial losses while new stores commence operations. We plan to open new stores in the near future to add to our existing store base. Of the 113 stores in operation as of February 1, 2009, we opened three new stores in Canada, 32 new stores in the United States and two new stores outside of North America in fiscal 2008. In the third quarter of fiscal 2008 we agreed with our Japanese joint venture partner to end all operations as a joint venture and as a result we closed four corporate-owned stores in Japan. We expect to open a total of six additional stores in fiscal 2009 in the United States and Canada. We estimate that we will incur approximately $3.2 million of capital expenditures in fiscal 2009 to open these six additional stores. In addition, our new stores may not be immediately profitable and we may incur losses until these stores become profitable. There can be no assurance that we will open the planned number of new stores in fiscal 2009. Any failure to successfully open and operate new stores will harm our results of operations. Our limited operating experience and limited brand recognition in new markets may limit our expansion strategy and cause our business and growth to suffer. Our future growth depends, to a considerable extent, on our expansion efforts outside of Canada, especially in the United States. Our current operations are based largely in Canada and the United States. As of February 1, 2009, we had 43 stores in Canada, 65 stores in the United States and five franchise stores in Australia. We have limited experience with regulatory environments and market practices outside of Canada and the United States, and cannot guarantee that we will be able to penetrate or successfully operate in any market outside of North America. As previously disclosed, we have discontinued our operations in Japan. In connection with our initial expansion efforts outside of North America, we have encountered many obstacles we do not face in Canada or the United States, including cultural and linguistic differences, differences in regulatory environments and market practices, difficulties in keeping abreast of market, business and technical developments and foreign customers’ tastes and preferences. We may also encounter difficulty expanding into new markets because of limited brand recognition leading to delayed acceptance of our technical athletic apparel by customers in these new markets. In particular, we have no assurance that our grassroots marketing efforts will prove successful outside of the narrow geographic regions in which they have been used in the United States and Canada. We anticipate that as our business expands into new markets and as the market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brand may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Conversely, as we penetrate these markets and our brand becomes more widely available, it could potentially detract from the appeal stemming from the scarcity of our brand. Our brand may also be adversely affected if our public image or reputation is tarnished by negative publicity. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to be a leader in the athletic apparel industry, to offer a unique store experience to our customers and to continue to provide high quality products and services, which we may not do successfully. Failure to develop new markets outside of Canada or disappointing growth outside of Canada will harm our business and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to maintain or enhance our brand image our results of operations may suffer and our business may be harmed. 11 Table of Contents We plan to primarily use cash from operations to finance our growth strategy, and if we are unable to maintain sufficient levels of cash flow we may not meet our growth expectations. We intend to finance our growth through the cash flows generated by our existing stores, borrowings under our available credit facilities and the net proceeds from our initial public offering. However, if our stores are not profitable or if our store profits decline, we may not have the cash flow necessary in order to pursue or maintain our growth strategy. We may also be unable to obtain any necessary financing on commercially reasonable terms to pursue or maintain our growth strategy. If we are unable to pursue or maintain our growth strategy, the market price of our common stock could decline and our results of operations and profitability could suffer. Our ability to attract customers to our stores depends heavily on successfully locating our stores in suitable locations and any impairment of a store location, including any decrease in customer traffic, could cause our sales to be less than expected. Our approach to identifying locations for our stores typically favors street locations and lifestyle centers where we can be a part of the community. As a result, our stores are typically located near retailers or fitness facilities that we believe are consistent with our customers’ lifestyle choices. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of foot traffic in these locations. Store locations may become unsuitable due to, and our sales volume and customer traffic generally may be harmed by, among other things: • economic downturns in a particular area; • competition from nearby retailers selling athletic apparel; • changing consumer demographics in a particular market; • changing lifestyle choices of consumers in a particular market; and • the closing or decline in popularity of other businesses located near our store. Changes in areas around our store locations that result in reductions in customer foot traffic or otherwise render the locations unsuitable could cause our sales to be less than expected. We operate in a highly competitive market and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, resulting in a loss of our market share and a decrease in our net revenue and profitability. The market for technical athletic apparel is highly competitive. Competition may result in pricing pressures, reduced profit margins or lost market share or a failure to grow our market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We compete directly against wholesalers and direct retailers of athletic apparel, including large, diversified apparel companies with substantial market share and established companies expanding their production and marketing of technical athletic apparel, as well as against retailers specifically focused on women’s athletic apparel. We also face competition from wholesalers and direct retailers of traditional commodity athletic apparel, such as cotton T-shirts and sweatshirts. Many of our competitors are large apparel and sporting goods companies with strong worldwide brand recognition, such as Nike, Inc. and adidas AG, which includes the adidas and Reebok brands. Because of the fragmented nature of the industry, we also compete with other apparel sellers, including those specializing in yoga apparel. Many of our competitors have significant competitive advantages, including longer operating histories, larger and broader customer bases, more established relationships with a broader set of suppliers, greater brand recognition and greater financial, research and development, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. In addition, our technical athletic apparel is sold at a premium to traditional athletic apparel. Our competitors may be able to achieve and maintain brand awareness and market share more quickly and effectively than we can. In contrast to our “grassroots” marketing approach, many of our competitors promote their brands primarily through traditional forms of advertising, such as print media and television commercials, and through celebrity athlete endorsements, and have substantial resources to devote to such efforts. Our competitors may also create and maintain brand awareness using traditional forms of advertising more quickly in new markets than we can. Our competitors may also be able to increase sales in their new and existing markets faster than we do 12 Table of Contents by emphasizing different distribution channels than we do, such as wholesale, internet or catalog sales or an extensive franchise network, as opposed to distribution through retail stores, and many of our competitors have substantial resources to devote toward increasing sales in such ways. In addition, because we own no patents or exclusive intellectual property rights in the technology, fabrics or processes underlying our products, our current and future competitors are able to manufacture and sell products with performance characteristics, fabrication techniques and styling similar to our products. Our inability to maintain recent levels of comparable store sales or average sales per square foot could cause our stock price to decline. We may not be able to maintain the levels of comparable store sales that we have experienced historically. In addition, we may not be able to replicate outside of North America our historic average sales per square foot. Our sales per square foot in stores we have opened in the United States have generally been lower than those we have been able to achieve in Canada. As sales in the United States grow to become a larger percentage of our overall sales, our average sales per square foot will likely decline. The aggregate results of operations of our stores have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. For example, over the past eight fiscal quarters, our quarterly comparable store sales have ranged from a decrease of 22% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 to an increase of 41% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. A variety of factors affect both comparable store sales and average sales per square foot, including foreign exchange fluctuations, fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, pricing, inflation, the timing of the release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable store sales results to be materially lower than recent periods and our expectations, which could harm our results of operations and result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Failure to comply with trade and other regulations could lead to investigations or actions by government regulators and negative publicity. The labeling, distribution, importation and sale of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, state attorneys general in the U.S., the Competition Bureau and Health Canada in Canada as well as by various other federal, state, provincial, local and international regulatory authorities in the countries in which our products are distributed or sold. If we fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or claims, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketing of our products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. In addition, our failure to comply with FTC or state regulations, or with regulations in foreign markets that cover our product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products. Our plans to improve and expand our product offerings may not be successful, and implementation of these plans may divert our operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could harm our competitive position and reduce our net revenue and profitability. In addition to our store expansion strategy, we plan to grow our business by improving and expanding our product offerings, which includes introducing new product technologies, increasing the range of athletic activities our products target, growing our men’s business and expanding our accessories, undergarments and outerwear offerings. The principal risks to our ability to successfully carry out our plans to improve and expand our product offering are that: • introduction of new products may be delayed, allowing our competitors to introduce similar products in a more timely fashion, which could hurt our goal to be viewed as a leader in technical athletic apparel innovation; • if our expanded product offerings fail to maintain and enhance our distinctive brand identity, our brand image may be diminished and our sales may decrease; 13 Table of Contents • implementation of these plans may divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business and place a strain on our management, operational and financial resources, as well as our information systems; and • incorporation of novel technologies into our products that are not accepted by our customers or that are inferior to similar products offered by our competitors. In addition, our ability to successfully carry out our plans to improve and expand our product offerings may be affected by economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer athletic preferences and style trends. These plans could be abandoned, could cost more than anticipated and could divert resources from other areas of our business, any of which could impact our competitive position and reduce our net revenue and profitability. We rely on third-party suppliers to provide fabrics for and to produce our products, and we have limited control over them and may not be able to obtain quality products on a timely basis or in sufficient quantity. We do not manufacture our products or the raw materials for them and rely instead on third-party suppliers. Many of the specialty fabrics used in our products are technically advanced textile products developed and manufactured by third parties and may be available, in the short-term, from only one or a very limited number of sources. For example, our Luon fabric, which is included in many of our products, is supplied to the mills we use by a single manufacturer in Taiwan, and the fibers used in manufacturing our Luon fabric are supplied to our Taiwanese manufacturer by a single company. In fiscal 2008, approximately 70% of our products were produced by our top five manufacturing suppliers. If we experience significant increased demand, or need to replace an existing manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any supplier or manufacturer would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements or fill our orders in a timely manner. Even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or fabric sources, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products and quality control standards. Delays related to supplier changes could also arise due to an increase in shipping times if new suppliers are located farther away from our markets or from other participants in our supply chain. Any delays, interruption or increased costs in the supply of fabric or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand for our products and result in lower net revenue and income from operations both in the short and long term. In addition, there can be no assurance that our suppliers and manufacturers will continue to provide fabrics and raw materials or manufacture products that comply with our technical specifications and are consistent with our standards. We have occasionally received, and may in the future continue to receive, shipments of products that fail to comply with our technical specifications or that fail to conform to our quality control standards. In that event, unless we are able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, we risk the loss of net revenue resulting from the inability to sell those products and related increased administrative and shipping costs. Additionally, if defects in the manufacture of our products are not discovered until after such products are purchased by our customers, our customers could lose confidence in the technical attributes of our products and our results of operations could suffer and our business may be harmed. We do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers and accordingly could face significant disruptions in supply from our current sources. We generally do not enter into long-term formal written agreements with our suppliers, including those for Luon, and typically transact business with our suppliers on an order-by-order basis. There can be no assurance that there will not be a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources or, in the event of a disruption, that we would be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. Identifying a suitable supplier is an involved process that requires us to become satisfied with their quality control, responsiveness and service, financial stability and labor and other ethical practices. Any 14 Table of Contents delays, interruption or increased costs in the supply of fabric or manufacture of our products arising from a lack of long-term contracts could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand for our products and result in lower net revenue and income from operations both in the short and long term. We do not have patents or exclusive intellectual property rights in our fabrics and manufacturing technology. If our competitors sell similar products to ours, our net revenue and profitability could suffer. The intellectual property rights in the technology, fabrics and processes used to manufacture our products are owned or controlled by our suppliers and are generally not unique to us. Our ability to obtain intellectual property protection for our products is therefore limited and we currently own no patents or exclusive intellectual property rights in the technology, fabrics or processes underlying our products. As a result, our current and future competitors are able to manufacture and sell products with performance characteristics, fabrications and styling similar to our products. Because many of our competitors, such as Nike, Inc. and adidas AG, which includes the adidas and Reebok brands, have significantly greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do, they may be able to manufacture and sell products based on our fabrics and manufacturing technology at lower prices than we can. If our competitors do sell similar products to ours at lower prices, our net revenue and profitability could suffer. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management. The loss of the services of our senior management could make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and achieve our business goals. We also may be unable to retain existing management, technical, sales and client support personnel that are critical to our success, which could result in harm to our customer and employee relationships, loss of key information, expertise or know-how and unanticipated recruitment and training costs. We do not maintain a key person life insurance policy on Mr. Wilson, Ms. Day or any of our other members of our senior management team. As a result, we would have no way to cover the financial loss if we were to lose the services of members of our senior management team. Problems with our distribution system could harm our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies. We rely on our distribution facility in Vancouver, British Columbia and a distribution center located in Renton, Washington operated by a third-party vendor for substantially all of our product distribution. In October 2007, we relocated our Vancouver distribution facility to a new, larger distribution facility. Our contract for the Renton, Washington distribution facility expires in April 2010 and there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into another contract for a distribution center on acceptable terms. Such an event could disrupt our operations. Our distribution facilities include computer controlled and automated equipment, which means their operations are complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, electronic or power interruptions or other system failures. In addition, because substantially all of our products are distributed from two locations, our operations could also be interrupted by labor difficulties, or by floods, fires or other natural disasters near our distribution centers. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could be harmed. Our operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly variations in our net revenue and income from operations, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant seasonal variations in our net revenue and income from operations. Seasonal variations in our net revenue are primarily related to increased sales of our products during our fiscal fourth quarter, reflecting our historical strength in sales during the holiday season. We generated approximately 29%, 39% and 35% of our full year gross profit during the fourth quarters of fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 respectively. Historically, seasonal variations in our income from operations have been driven principally by increased net revenue in our fiscal fourth quarter. 15 Table of Contents Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including, among other things, the following: • the timing of new store openings; • net revenue and profits contributed by new stores; • increases or decreases in comparable store sales; • changes in our product mix; and • the timing of new advertising and new product introductions. As a result of these seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our operating results between different quarters within a single fiscal year are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. Any future seasonal or quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations may not match the expectations of market analysts and investors. Disappointing quarterly results could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Seasonal or quarterly factors in our business and results of operations may also make it more difficult for market analysts and investors to assess the longer-term profitability and strength of our business at any particular point, which could lead to increased volatility in our stock price. Increased volatility could cause our stock price to suffer in comparison to less volatile investments. If we are unable to accurately forecast customer demand for our products our manufacturers may not be able to deliver products to meet our requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products to our stores and may harm our results of operations and customer relationships. We stock our stores based on our estimates of future demand for particular products. If our inventory and planning team fails to accurately forecast customer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of products available for sale in our stores. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage our inventory at a level appropriate for future customer demand. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or write-offs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which would cause our gross margin to suffer and could impair the strength and exclusivity of our brand. We wrote-off $0.9 million, $0.8 million and $1.0 million of inventory in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. In addition, if we underestimate customer demand for our products, our manufacturers may not be able to deliver products to meet our requirements, and this could result in delays in the shipment of products to our stores and may damage our reputation and customer relationships. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage our inventory at a level appropriate for future customer demand. Our current and future joint ventures may not be successful. As part of our long-term growth strategy, we plan to expand our stores and sales of our products into new locations outside North America. Our successful expansion and operation of new stores outside North America will depend on our ability to find suitable partners and to successfully implement and manage joint venture relationships. If we are able to find a joint venture partner in a specific geographic area, there can be no guarantee that such a relationship will be successful. Such a relationship often creates additional risk. For example, our partners in joint venture relationships may have interests that differ from ours or that conflict with ours, such as the timing of new store openings and the pricing of our products, or our partners may become bankrupt which may as a practical matter subject us to such partners’ liabilities in connection with the joint venture. In addition, joint ventures can magnify several other risks for us, including the potential loss of control over our cultural identity in the markets where we enter into joint ventures and the possibility that our brand image could be impaired by the actions of our partners. Although we generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture to permit our objectives to be achieved, we might not be able to take action without the approval of our partners. Reliance on joint venture relationships and our partners exposes us to increased risk that our joint ventures will not be successful and will result in competitive harm to our brand image that could cause our expansion efforts, profitability and results of operations to suffer. 16 Table of Contents We may need to raise additional capital that may be required to grow our business, and we may not be able to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Operating our business and maintaining our growth efforts will require significant cash outlays and advance capital expenditures and commitments. If cash on hand and cash generated from operations and from our initial public offering are not sufficient to meet our cash requirements, we will need to seek additional capital, potentially through debt or equity financings, to fund our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, and the prices at which new investors would be willing to purchase our securities may be lower than the current price per share of our common stock. The holders of new securities may also have rights, preferences or privileges which are senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If new sources of financing are required, but are insufficient or unavailable, we will be required to modify our growth and operating plans based on available funding, if any, which would harm our ability to grow our business. We are subject to risks associated with leasing retail space subject to long-term non-cancelable leases and are required to make substantial lease payments under our operating leases, and any failure to make these lease payments when due would likely harm our business, profitability and results of operations. We do not own any of our stores, but instead lease all of our corporate-owned stores under operating leases. Our leases generally have initial terms of between five and 10 years, and generally can be extended only in five-year increments if at all. All of our leases require a fixed annual rent, and most require the payment of additional rent if store sales exceed a negotiated amount. Generally, our leases are “net” leases, which require us to pay all of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot cancel these leases at our option. Payments under these operating leases account for a significant portion of our cost of goods sold. For example, as of February 1, 2009, we were a party to operating leases associated with our corporate-owned stores as well as other corporate facilities requiring future minimum lease payments aggregating $118.6 million through January 31, 2014 and approximately $93.0 million thereafter. We expect that any new stores we open will also be leased by us under operating leases, which will further increase our operating lease expenses. Our substantial operating lease obligations could have significant negative consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring a substantial portion of our available cash to pay our rental obligations, thus reducing cash available for other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business or in the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a disadvantage with respect to some of our competitors. We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses and to fulfill our other cash needs. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities, and sufficient funds are not otherwise available to us from borrowings under our available credit facilities or from other sources, we may not be able to service our operating lease expenses, grow our business, respond to competitive challenges or to fund our other liquidity and capital needs, which would harm our business. If our independent manufacturers fail to use ethical business practices and comply with applicable laws and regulations, our brand image could be harmed due to negative publicity. Our core values, which include developing the highest quality products while operating with integrity, are an important component of our brand image, which makes our reputation particularly sensitive to allegations of unethical business practices. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices such as environmental responsibility, fair wage practices, and compliance with child labor laws, among others, and we, along with a third party that we retain for this purpose, monitor compliance with those guidelines, we do not control our independent manufacturers or their business practices. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee their 17 Table of Contents compliance with our guidelines. A lack of demonstrated compliance could lead us to seek alternative suppliers, which could increase our costs and result in delayed delivery of our products, product shortages or other disruptions of our operations. Violation of labor or other laws by our independent manufacturers or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s labor or other practices from those generally accepted as ethical in Canada, the United States or other markets in which we do business could also attract negative publicity for us and our brand. This could diminish the value of our brand image and reduce demand for our merchandise if, as a result of such violation, we were to attract negative publicity. Other apparel manufacturers have encountered significant problems in this regard, and these problems have resulted in organized boycotts of their products and significant adverse publicity. If we, or other manufacturers in our industry, encounter similar problems in the future, it could harm our brand image, stock price and results of operations. Monitoring compliance by independent manufacturers is complicated by the fact that expectations of ethical business practices continually evolve, may be substantially more demanding than applicable legal requirements and are driven in part by legal developments and by diverse groups active in publicizing and organizing public responses to perceived ethical shortcomings. Accordingly, we cannot predict how such expectations might develop in the future and cannot be certain that our guidelines would satisfy all parties who are active in monitoring and publicizing perceived shortcomings in labor and other business practices worldwide. The cost of raw materials could increase our cost of goods sold and cause our results of operations and financial condition to suffer. The fabrics used by our suppliers and manufacturers include synthetic fabrics whose raw materials include petroleum-based products. Our products also include natural fibers, including cotton. Significant price fluctuations or shortages in petroleum or other raw materials may increase our cost of goods sold and cause our results of operations and financial condition to suffer. Because a significant portion of our sales are generated in Canada, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have negatively affected our results of operations and may continue to do so in the future. The reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. In the future, we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our sales and incur a significant portion of our operating costs in Canada, and changes in exchange rates between the Canadian dollar and the U.S. dollar may have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations. Our primary risk of loss regarding foreign currency exchange rate risk is caused by fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, Canadian dollar and Australian dollar. Because we recognize net revenue from sales in Canada in Canadian dollars, if the Canadian dollar weakens against the U.S. dollar it would have a negative impact on our Canadian operating results upon translation of those results into U.S. dollars for the purposes of consolidation. The exchange rate of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar has declined over fiscal 2008, which has negatively affected our results of operations. If the Canadian dollar continues to weaken relative to the U.S. dollar, our net revenue will decline and our income from operations and net income will be adversely affected. We have not historically engaged in hedging transactions and do not currently contemplate engaging in hedging transactions to mitigate foreign exchange risks. As we continue to recognize gains and losses in foreign currency transactions, depending upon changes in future currency rates, such gains or losses could have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations. The operations of many of our suppliers are subject to additional risks that are beyond our control and that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Almost all of our suppliers are located outside the United States. During fiscal 2008, approximately 15% of our products were produced in Canada, approximately 65% in China, approximately 7% in Southeast Asia and the remainder in the United States, Israel, Peru, Korea and Taiwan. As a result of our international suppliers, we are subject to risks associated with doing business abroad, including: • political unrest, terrorism, labor disputes and economic instability resulting in the disruption of trade from foreign countries in which our products are manufactured; 18 Table of Contents • the imposition of new laws and regulations, including those relating to labor conditions, quality and safety standards, imports, duties, taxes and other charges on imports, as well as trade restrictions and restrictions on currency exchange or the transfer of funds; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights, including trademark protection, in some countries, particularly China; • disruptions or delays in shipments; and • changes in local economic conditions in countries where our manufacturers, suppliers or customers are located. These and other factors beyond our control could interrupt our suppliers’ production in offshore facilities, influence the ability of our suppliers to export our products cost-effectively or at all and inhibit our suppliers’ ability to procure certain materials, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to source our merchandise profitably or at all could be hurt if new trade restrictions are imposed or existing trade restrictions become more burdensome. The United States and the countries in which our products are produced or sold internationally have imposed and may impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs, or other restrictions or regulations, or may adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels. For example, under the provisions of the World Trade Organization, or WTO, Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, effective as of January 1, 2005, the United States and other WTO member countries eliminated quotas on textiles and apparel-related products from WTO member countries. In 2005, China’s exports into the United States surged as a result of the eliminated quotas. In response to the perceived disruption of the market, the United States imposed new quotas, which were permitted to remain in place through the end of 2008, on certain categories of natural-fiber products that we import from China. As a result, we have expanded our relationships with suppliers outside of China, which among other things has resulted in increased costs and shipping times for some products. Countries impose, modify and remove tariffs and other trade restrictions in response to a diverse array of factors, including global and national economic and political conditions, which make it impossible for us to predict future developments regarding tariffs and other trade restrictions. Trade restrictions, including tariffs, quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of products available to us or may require us to modify our supply chain organization or other current business practices, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to potential challenges relating to overtime pay and other regulations that impact our employees, which could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows to suffer. Various labor laws, including U.S. federal, U.S. state and Canadian provincial laws, among others, govern our relationship with our employees and affect our operating costs. These laws include minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates and citizenship requirements. These laws change frequently and may be difficult to interpret and apply. In particular, as a retailer, we may be subject to challenges regarding the application of overtime and related pay regulations to our employees. A determination that we do not comply with these laws could harm our brand image, business, financial condition and results of operation. Additional government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence or mandated health benefits could also cause our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows to suffer. Our franchisees may take actions that could harm our business or brand, and franchise regulations and contracts limit our ability to terminate or replace under-performing franchises. As of February 1, 2009, we had one franchise store in Canada, four franchise stores in the United States and five franchise stores in Australia. Franchisees are independent business operators and are not our employees, and we do not exercise control over the day-to-day operations of their retail stores. We provide training and support to franchisees, and set and monitor operational standards, but the quality of franchise store operations may decline due to diverse factors beyond our control. For example, franchisees may not successfully operate stores in a manner 19 Table of Contents consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified employees, which could harm their sales and as a result harm our results of operations or cause our brand image to suffer. Franchisees, as independent business operators, may from time to time disagree with us and our strategies regarding the business or our interpretation of our respective rights and obligations under applicable franchise agreements. This may lead to disputes with our franchisees, and we expect such disputes to occur from time to time, such as the collection of royalty payments or other matters related to the franchisee’s successful operation of the retail store. Such disputes could divert the attention of our management and our franchisees from our operations, which could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows to suffer. In addition, as a franchisor, we are subject to Canadian, U.S. federal, U.S. state and international laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. These laws impose registration and extensive disclosure requirements on the offer and sale of franchises, frequently apply substantive standards to the relationship between franchisor and franchisee and limit the ability of a franchisor to terminate or refuse to renew a franchise. We may therefore be required to retain an under-performing franchise and may be unable to replace the franchisee, which could harm our results of operations. We cannot predict the nature and effect of any future legislation or regulation on our franchise operations. Our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brand and weaken our competitive position. We currently rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade dress and unfair competition laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent infringement of such rights by others, including imitation of our products and misappropriation of our brand. In addition, intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States or Canada, and it may be more difficult for us to successfully challenge the use of our intellectual property rights by other parties in these countries. If we fail to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, the value of our brand could be diminished and our competitive position may suffer. Our trademarks and other proprietary rights could potentially conflict with the rights of others and we may be prevented from selling some of our products. Our success depends in large part on our brand image. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights have significant value and are important to identifying and differentiating our products from those of our competitors and creating and sustaining demand for our products. We have obtained and applied for some United States and foreign trademark registrations, and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. However, we cannot guarantee that any of our pending trademark applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. Moreover, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge these registrations. Additionally, we cannot assure you that obstacles will not arise as we expand our product line and the geographic scope of our sales and marketing. Third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand our business and the number of products we offer. Our defense of any claim, regardless of its merit, could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management resources. Successful infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from selling some of our products. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to redesign our products, license rights from third parties or cease using those rights altogether. Any of these events could harm our business and cause our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition to suffer. We will continue to incur significant expenses as a result of being a public company, which will negatively impact our financial performance and could cause our results of operations and financial condition to suffer. We will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses as a result of being a public company. We expect that compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules implemented by the SEC and the securities regulators in each of the provinces and territories of Canada and by The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC, will continue to impact our expenses, including our legal and accounting costs, and 20 Table of Contents make some activities more time consuming and costly. We also expect these laws, rules and regulations to make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as officers. As a result of the foregoing, we have experienced a substantial increase in legal, accounting, insurance and certain other expenses and we expect we will incur higher expenses in the future, which will negatively impact our financial performance and could cause our results of operations and financial condition to suffer. Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and cause a decline in our stock price. Ongoing reporting obligations as a public company and our continued growth are likely to place a considerable strain on our financial and management systems, processes and controls, as well as on our personnel. In addition, as a public company we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 so that our management can certify the effectiveness of our internal controls and our independent registered public accounting firm can render an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. As a result, we have implemented the required financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and we incurred substantial expenses to test our systems and to make additional improvements and to hire additional personnel. If our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could harm our business and cause a decline in our stock price. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a decline in our stock price and harm our ability to raise capital. Failure to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis could also jeopardize our continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the Toronto Stock Exchange or any other stock exchange on which our common stock may be listed. Delisting of our common stock on any exchange would reduce the liquidity of the market for our common stock, which would reduce the price of our stock and increase the volatility of our stock price. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate or decline. Since our initial public offering in July 2007 until February 1, 2009, the price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $6.22 to a high of $60.70 on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and from a low of CDN $7.83 to a high of CDN $58.77 on the Toronto Stock Exchange. Broad market and industry factors may harm the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuation in the price of our common stock may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in quarterly operating results or other operating metrics, such as comparable store sales, that may be used by the investment community; • changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; • reductions in consumer spending and macroeconomic factors that may adversely affect consumer spending; • speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; • conditions or trends affecting our industry or the economy generally, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the technical athletic apparel industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; 21 Table of Contents • changes in product mix between high and low margin products; • capital commitments; • our entry into new markets; • timing of new store openings; • percentage of sales from new stores versus established stores; • additions or departures of key personnel; • actual or anticipated sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant stockholders; • significant developments relating to our manufacturing, distribution, joint venture or franchise relationships; • customer purchases of new products from us and our competitors; • investor perceptions of the apparel industry in general and our company in particular; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles; and • speculative trading of our common stock in the investment community. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation, even if it does not result in liability for us, could result in substantial costs to us and divert management’s attention and resources. A significant number of our outstanding shares are eligible for resale and may be sold on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and the Toronto Stock Exchange. The large number of shares eligible for public sale could depress the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, and the perception that these sales could occur may also depress the market price of our common stock. On July 31, 2008, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3ASR in the United States registering the issuance of up to 20,935,041 shares of our common stock upon the exchange of the then-outstanding exchangeable shares of Lulu Canadian Holding, Inc. Sales of our common stock in the public market may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. These sales also could cause our stock price to fall and make it more difficult for you to sell shares of our common stock. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over our affairs. Our current directors and executive officers beneficially own 42% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, would be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay and discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider to be favorable. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it more difficult or impossible for a third party to acquire control of us or effect a change in our board of directors and management. These provisions include: • the classification of our board of directors into three classes, with one class elected each year; 22 Table of Contents • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; • the ability to remove a director only for cause and only with the vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of our voting stock; • a special meeting of stockholders may only be called by our chairman or Chief Executive Officer, or upon a resolution adopted by an affirmative vote of a majority of the board of directors, and not by our stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and • our stockholders must comply with advance notice procedures in order to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to place stockholder proposals on the agenda for consideration at any meeting of our stockholders. In addition, we are governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to some specified exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. 