Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Risks Related to Our Business We are highly dependent on revenues from our participation in the AMC international program, which are derived from one-year contracts that the DOD is not obligated to renew. If our revenues from this business decline from current levels, whether due to decreased demand, reduction in paid rates for flying, termination, non-renewal, modification or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, our revenues from our participation in the AMC international program represented approximately 82%, 82%, and 79% of our total revenues, respectively, excluding ATA. Our revenues and net income from the AMC are derived from one-year contracts that the DOD is not obligated to renew. Our current contract runs from January 1, 2011 through September 30, 2011. Any future military contracts awarded to us may be on less favorable terms. In addition, the volume of AMC business available to us is sensitive to changes in national and international political priorities, troop deployments and the U.S. federal budget. We currently anticipate a decrease in troop deployments from 2009-2010 levels starting in 2011 and continuing into 2013, which can be expected to result in reduced military flying. It is possible that troop deployments could decline more significantly than anticipated as political or military priorities change. Like all government contracts, our current contract with the military is conditioned upon the continuing availability of funds through legislative appropriations. The DOD may cancel the contract if appropriations become unavailable. It is possible that AMC rates will decrease in future years, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our AMC contracts contain various operational performance requirements. These include on-time performance, availability of aircraft and crews to meet committed missions, and successful completion of inspections. Under our 2011 AMC contract, on-time performance requirements, as measured on a rolling three-month period, were increased from an 85% to a 95% schedule reliability rate for passenger operations. The penalties for failing to meet the new requirements were expanded to include: contract default and potential termination for failure to meet an 87% passenger schedule reliability rate; a potential loss of rights to fly expansion missions (additional missions beyond the fixed buy contract requirements) and a 2% penalty on revenue on all newly awarded passenger missions performed during a subsequent 30-day period for achieving an 87% to 89% passenger schedule reliability rate ; a potential penalty of 2% of revenue on all newly awarded passenger missions performed during a subsequent 30-day period for achieving a 90% to 91% passenger schedule reliability rate; and a potential penalty of 1% of revenue on all newly awarded passenger missions performed during a subsequent 30-day period for achieving a 92% to 94% passenger schedule reliability rate. Our North American operations have failed to meet these schedule reliability rates for the period from January 1, 2011 to date and, as a result, we expect that it will not meet the requirements for the initial rolling three-month period under its AMC contract. Accordingly, the AMC could impose on North American a 2% penalty on revenue and disqualify it from further expansion missions for a period of time in the second quarter of 2011. In the worst case, the AMC could terminate our North American AMC contract. Because our contracts for the AMC international program are one-year contracts that the DOD is not obligated to renew, the DOD could change the structure and compensation of the AMC international program in future contracts. In 2011, we will begin the negotiation of the next memorandum of understanding addressing military rates which will go into effect beginning October 2012 and continue for five years. The rates are based primarily on carriers’ historical unit costs and inflation indices used by the AMC. For the 2011 contract year, the calculated effective non-fuel rate for AMC missions is lower than in fiscal year 2010. AMC rates for fiscal year 2011 are down 5.2% for the large passenger category, down 5.5% for the medium passenger category and down 2.0% for the large cargo category. The Company operates flights in each of these categories. The fiscal year 2011 ra tes are down generally due to lower general escalation as measured in the base period, cost basis changes at other CRAF carriers and expected changes in the Company’s costs related to its DC-10 fleet. The DOD can typically terminate or modify its contracts with us for convenience or for default by us or our teaming partners. If the DOD terminates our contract for convenience, our ability to recover any incurred costs is subject to the AMC having appropriated sufficient funds to cover the termination settlement costs. The costs of terminating for convenience may exceed the costs appropriated by the AMC in the applicable year, and the AMC may not have access to Congressionally-appropriated additional funding under such circumstances. Moreover, the DOD could terminate due to a failure to perform by us or, in limited circumstances, a failure to perform by our teaming partners. A termination arising from default may expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. If the DOD terminates our contract for default due to the performance, or lac k thereof, of one of our teaming partners, we are generally cross-indemnified by the defaulting teaming partner subject to limitations of liability set forth in our teaming agreement. If the AMC were to terminate its business with us or if our AMC business otherwise declines significantly, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Unpredictability and variability in military demand for our services could make it difficult to optimize the use and maintenance schedule of our aircraft fleet, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Predicting the precise timing of the military’s demand for our services can be difficult, particularly in light of the confidential nature of troop deployment schedules. Our inability to precisely forecast demand for our aircraft can hinder our ability to optimize the use of and maintenance schedule for our fleet. In circumstances where we have planned for significant demand from the military that does not materialize, we may be unsuccessful in reallocating our aircraft for use by commercial cargo or passenger services customers. The failure to reallocate our aircraft to commercial use and the resulting reduction in their utilization could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, in circumstances where we have committed aircraft to commercial contracts, we may not have aircraft for military missions. Our revenues from our AMC business are sensitive to teaming arrangements both with respect to our team and competing teams. If one of our team members reduces its commitments or withdraws from the team, or if carriers on other teams commit additional aircraft to this program, our share of AMC flying may decline. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Each year, the AMC grants a certain portion of its business to different air carriers based on a point system. The number of points that an air carrier can accrue is determined by the number and type of aircraft pledged to the CRAF. Our operating subsidiaries along with the other air carriers in our team currently participate in the CRAF program and generate entitlement points for AMC business. Points from team members that do not fly AMC missions are used to increase the flights awarded to other team members that do fly AMC missions, such as World and North American, in return for a commission on the revenue derived from those points. Continued participation by World and North American on the Alliance team is subject to significant risks. The formation of competing teaming arrangements, an increase by carriers from other teams in their commitment of aircraft to the CRAF program and the withdrawal of, or failure to renew a future teaming agreement with, any of the Alliance team’s current partners could materially and adversely affect the amount of our AMC business. There has been and continues to be significant consolidation in the air carrier industry. As a result of consolidation, we expect some air carriers may choose to join other teams. As a result of these changes, the Alliance team’s total share of entitlement points under the AMC international program will decrease for government fiscal year 2011. In addition, if any Alliance team member were to cease or restructure its operations or dispose of aircraft prev iously pledged to the CRAF program, the number of aircraft pledged to the CRAF program by the Alliance team could be reduced. Any of these developments could reduce the number of points allocated to the Alliance team and the Alliance team’s allocation of AMC business to us would likely decrease. If the military substantially reduces the amount of business it awards the Alliance team or if the Alliance team reduces the military missions it awards to us, we may not be able to replace the lost business and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The costs we incur on our military missions may be greater than the amounts for which we are reimbursed by the AMC, which would reduce our profitability. Under our contract with the DOD, we are paid on a cost-plus basis in which we receive a fixed rate per mission based on the route and aircraft type. The fixed rate is calculated using the average costs of all participating air carriers, weighted by flights flown in the AMC international program. The AMC sets the fixed rate for each AMC fiscal year using cost data for a 12-month period that ended 15 months prior to the start of such fiscal year as adjusted following consultation with the air carrier, multiplied by a weighted composite price index to account for cost increases in the industry. As a result, the actual operating costs of our military business may exceed the fixed rate, although those higher actual operating costs will provide the basis for the fixed rate used for missions flown in future contract periods. Should we incur unexpected costs for reasons outside our control, such a s the additional costs we incurred to fly around the volcanic ash recently affecting flights over Europe, we are entitled to seek reimbursement from the DOD. Reimbursement is granted based on a reasonableness test. No assurance can be given, however, that any particular future increased costs would be adequately reimbursed, if at all. Insofar as the actual operating costs of our military business exceed the fixed rate paid by the AMC and such shortfall is not reimbursed, our profitability would be reduced. If the DOD activates our aircraft pledged to the CRAF, the activated aircraft would not be available for other commercial use. All of our aircraft are pledged to the CRAF and are therefore available for activation and use by the U.S. government in times of need. If the DOD activates our aircraft under the CRAF, we could not use them to serve commercial customers while they are used by the U.S. government pursuant to an activation. We cannot predict whether revenues from the DOD during the activation of our aircraft under the CRAF would be less than or more than would otherwise be generated by commercial customers. While our agreements with our commercial customers generally allow cancellation without penalty in the event of CRAF activation, activation could disrupt our operations, customer relationships and our competitive position as compared to charter operators with aircraft not pledged to the CRAF. 14 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by an adverse audit by the U.S. government. DOD contracts are routinely subject to audit by government agencies. Such an audit involves a review of our performance under our contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. It may also involve a review of the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies, including our management, purchasing, property, estimating, compensation, accounting and information systems. If an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of our government contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the Government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. While our revenues may vary significantly over time, a substantial portion of our operating expenses are fixed. These fixed costs may limit our ability to quickly change our cost structure to respond to any declines in our revenues, which could reduce our profitability. To maintain our level of operations, a substantial portion of our costs, such as aircraft lease payments, crew, maintenance and facility costs, are fixed. Operating revenues from our business are directly affected by our ability to maintain high utilization of our aircraft at favorable rates. The utilization of our aircraft and our ability to obtain favorable rates are affected by many factors, including military requirements, global demand for passenger and cargo air transport services, global economic conditions, fuel costs and the deployment by our current and potential customers of their own aircraft, among others, which may cause our revenues to vary significantly over time. We are particularly vulnerable to reductions in demand due to our relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to adjust to match shifting volume levels. Accordingly, if our revenues for a particular period fall below expectations, we may be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that period. We depend on a limited number of significant customers for our commercial cargo business, and the loss of one or more of these customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of significant customers for our commercial cargo business, most of which is conducted pursuant to contracts that are set to expire in the next two years. There is a risk that our customers may not renew their ACMI contracts with us on favorable terms or at all. Entering into ACMI contracts with new customers may require a long sales cycle. Because we generally lease our aircraft pursuant to non-cancelable operating leases, we could be forced to maintain aircraft in our fleet while they produce little or no revenue. In addition, certain of our principal competitors have ordered Boeing 747-8 freighters and Boeing 777 freighters, which could increase competition for long-haul large payload ACMI customers. As a result, if our ACMI contracts are not renewed or can only be renewed on less favorable terms, and if we are not able to obtain other business in a timely manne r or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on certain levels of worldwide economic activity to operate successfully. A significant reduction in demand for air cargo transport could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is highly dependent upon the level of business activity and overall global economic conditions. The recent economic downturn has decreased and may continue to decrease the volume of world trade and materially and adversely affect demand for the services offered by our ACMI customers, such as a significant reduction in the production of time-sensitive inventories, perishables and packages that have historically been transported via air freight. We cannot predict the effect or duration of any economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery. We are particularly vulnerable to reductions in demand due to our relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to adjust to match shifting volume levels. If we are unable to continue to lease aircraft at acceptable rates and terms in the future, or if we are unable to acquire compatible engines or spare parts, on terms favorable to us or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. All of our aircraft are leased. Our operating leases typically run from three to ten years from the date of delivery. We may face more competition for, or a limited supply of, leased aircraft, making it difficult for us to negotiate competitive terms upon expiration of our current operating leases or to lease additional capacity required for our targeted level of operations. If we are forced to pay higher lease rates in the future to maintain our fleet, our profitability would be adversely affected. Also, if available aircraft, whether by purchase or lease, are not compatible with the rest of our fleet in terms of takeoff weight, avionics, engine type or other factors, we would incur potentially significant costs of fleet induction and modification, and reduced efficiency of our operations. Any increase in demand could also impair our ability to obtain additional engines and spare parts on favo rable terms or at all at the time needed for our operations or for the implementation of our growth plan. 15 Table of Contents We are highly dependent upon our operating cash flows due to our lack of an established line of credit or borrowing facility and we may be unable to maintain sufficient liquidity to provide for our operating needs. We have no lines of credit or current access to a borrowing facility. We are therefore dependent upon our operating cash flows and cash balances to fund our operations and to make scheduled payments on our debt and other fixed obligations. Many air carriers, including ATA previously, have defaulted on debt securities and bank loans in recent years and have had their equity extinguished in bankruptcy reorganizations. This history has led to limited access to the capital markets by companies in our industry. We cannot assure you that any additional financing will be available on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. Our substantial operating lease obligations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have a significant amount of fixed obligations under operating leases related to our aircraft, airport terminal space, other airport facilities and office space. As of December 31, 2010, future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases with initial or remaining terms in excess of one year were approximately $531 million, and we may incur significantly more fixed obligations if we take delivery of additional aircraft and other equipment. For example, see “Business—Our Aircraft Fleet,” for recent expansions of our fleet. Our level of fixed obligations has important consequences for our business. These significant fixed obligations could: · make it difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industry and markets in which we operate and compete; · affect our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly since substantially all of our assets are subject to security interests relating to existing indebtedness; and · place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have fewer fixed obligations. If we are unable to make payments on our operating lease obligations, we could be forced to renegotiate those obligations or obtain additional equity or debt financing. We cannot assure you that any renegotiation efforts would be successful or timely, or that we would be able to renegotiate our obligations on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The terms of our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our financial and operating flexibility and in some cases require us to meet certain financial ratios and maintenance tests. The failure to comply with such ratios, tests and covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The terms of our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including those that restrict our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness, including indebtedness secured by any lien; · create liens on assets, including leasehold interests; · sell or otherwise dispose of assets; · serve as guarantors of additional obligations; · change lines of business; · pay dividends and distributions or repurchase common stock; · make investments, loans or advances; · engage in certain transactions with affiliates, including certain payments to MatlinPatterson Global Advisers LLC and its affiliates; · enter into sale and leaseback transactions; 16 Table of Contents · permit our consolidated cash flow, less capital expenditures, to fall below (i) $45 million for the period from September 30, 2009 through June 30, 2010 and (ii) $50 million thereafter, in each case, calculated quarterly on a trailing l2-month basis; · engage in a merger, consolidation or sale or transfer of substantially all of our assets; and · fail to hold any permit or authorization required to conduct business. In addition, on June 30 and December 31 of each year, we are required to offer to purchase up to $10.0 million aggregate principal amount of the First Lien Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon. The terms of our indebtedness also require mandatory prepayments regardless of whether there is excess cash flow. An anticipated failure to comply with the restrictions in any agreement governing our indebtedness may require us to seek a waiver and consent from the holders of our indebtedness. For example, in March 2011, we entered into a Second Supplemental Indenture related to our First Lien Notes and a Second Amendment and Waiver related to our Second Lien Loan in order to receive covenant relief from complying with the requirement that our consolidated cash flow, less capital expenditures, exceed $5 0 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any additional covenant relief, if required, in the future. In addition, any failure to comply with the restrictions in any agreement governing our indebtedness may result in an event of default under those agreements. Such default may allow our creditors to accelerate our obligations under such indebtedness and such acceleration may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt or leases. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay amounts outstanding under our debt instruments, either upon maturity or, if accelerated, upon an event of default. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral to secure our indebtedness, which may adversely affect our financial flexibility including our ability to obtain other loans or working capital lines of credit. Our First Lien Notes are secured by liens on substantially all our assets, other than mobile equipment and rights under aircraft leases and other excluded assets. Accordingly, if an event of default were to occur under the First Lien Notes, the holders of the First Lien Notes would have a priority right to our assets, to the exclusion of our general creditors. In that event, our assets would first be used to repay in full all indebtedness and other obligations secured by the First Lien Notes resulting in all or a portion of our assets being unavailable to satisfy the claims of our subordinated or unsecured creditors. Additionally, the holders of the secured debt would have a prior claim on such assets in the event of our bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or reorganization, and we may not have sufficient funds to pay all of our creditors. In any such event, holders of our equity securities wou ld not be entitled to receive any of our assets or the proceeds there from. In addition, the pledge of these assets and other restrictions limit our ability to incur additional secured or unsecured indebtedness, to enter into a line of credit to support our working capital needs, or to sell or dispose of assets to raise capital, which could have an adverse effect on our financial flexibility. Fuel price volatility could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The price of aircraft fuel is unpredictable and has been increasingly volatile over the past few years. While our military and ACMI contracts require our customers to pay for or reimburse us for aviation fuel, if fuel costs increase significantly, our customers may reduce the volume and frequency of cargo shipments or find less costly alternatives for cargo delivery, such as land and sea carriers. If our customers reduce their use of air freight, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, as a result of the timing of reimbursement under contracts providing for our customers to reimburse us for fuel costs, our working capital position may be adversely affected by significant increases in fuel costs, which could affect our liquidity. Volatility in international currency markets may adversely affect demand for our commercial cargo and passenger services. Although we price our services and receive our payments in U.S. dollars, many of our customers’ revenues are denominated in other currencies. Any significant devaluation in such currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on such customers’ ability to pay us or on their level of demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there is a significant decline in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, the demand for some of the products we transport could decline. Such a decline could reduce demand for our services and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to claims that were not released or discharged in either ATA’s or our predecessor’s bankruptcy proceedings. On April 2, 2008, ATA filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Indiana. The Chapter 11 Plan was approved and confirmed on March 26, 2009 with an effective date of March 31, 2009. The terms of ATA’s Chapter 11 Plan provided that creditors of ATA that voted in favor of the Plan or accepted a distribution under the Plan were conclusively presumed to have released us from all claims that such creditors had against us relating to ATA based on events occurring on or before March 31, 2009, other than claims arising under our guarantees of ATA’s obligations. This provision of the Plan did not apply to the United States or its agencies, nor to claims that ATA’s secured lenders may have had against us under ATA’s term loan agreement and related loan documents or otherwise. 17 Table of Contents ATA also granted us a release of all claims that such creditors had against us based on events occurring on or before March 31, 2009, including derivative claims that might have been asserted on ATA’s behalf. This release excluded certain claims arising under specified provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or comparable provisions of non-bankruptcy law, referred to as “Affiliate Avoidance Actions.” The Affiliate Avoidance Actions were contributed to a trust for the benefit of ATA’s secured lenders. We cannot provide any assurance that any such claims will not be brought against us by parties not subject to this release. However, as of this date, no such Affiliate Avoidance Actions have been brought, and we believe that defenses to any such actions would exist. As the guarantor of ATA’s performance with respect to certain of its contractual lease obligations, we have been subject to claims made by lessors of ATA’s aircraft leases, all but one of which have been settled. On February 9, 2009, Wilmington Trust Company, in its capacity as the trustee lessor to a 15-year lease agreement entered into by ATA on February 28, 2006, brought an action in the New York Supreme Court Commercial Division to enforce the guaranty provided by us guaranteeing the performance of ATA under that lease. The plaintiff is seeking (a) approximately $333,000 plus interest on the lease; (b) the greater of (i) $35 million and (ii) the current market value of the aircraft and (c) attorneys’ fees and costs. The outcome of the litigation cannot be predicted and is dependent upon many factors beyond our control. See “Legal P roceedings.” In addition, our predecessor, ATA Holdings Corp., emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization on February 28, 2006. Substantially all of the material claims against us that arose prior to the date of our predecessor’s bankruptcy filing were addressed during those Chapter 11 proceedings or were resolved in connection with the related Plan and Confirmation Order adopted by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. In addition, the U.S. Bankruptcy Code provides that the confirmation of a plan of reorganization discharges a debtor from substantially all debts arising prior to confirmation. Circumstances in which claims and other obligations that arose prior to the bankruptcy filing were not discharged primarily relate to certain actions by governmental units under police power authority, instances where we agreed to preserve a claimant’s claims, as well as, potentially, instances wh ere a claimant had inadequate notice of the bankruptcy filing. In addition, claims against non-debtor subsidiaries, including foreign subsidiaries, are generally not subject to discharge under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. To the extent that any pre-filing liability remains, the ultimate resolution of such claims and other obligations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our aircraft are periodically deployed in potentially dangerous situations, which may result in damage to our aircraft or cargo or harm to our employees. Some of our aircraft are deployed in potentially dangerous locations and carry hazardous cargo incidental to the services we provide in support of U.S. military activities, particularly in shipments to the Middle East. Some areas through which our flight routes pass are subject to geopolitical instability, which may increase the risk of a loss of, or damage to, our aircraft or its cargo, or death or injury to our personnel. While we maintain insurance to cover the loss or damage to our aircraft or cargo and injury to our employees, we do not have insurance against the loss arising from business interruption. It is difficult to replace lost or substantially damaged aircraft due to the high capital requirements and long delivery lead times for new aircraft or to locate appropriate in-service aircraft for lease or sale. Any loss or damage to our aircraft or cargo or injury to our employees could h ave a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Governments may restrict or revoke our authority to operate flights to or over countries. We have authority to operate flights anywhere in the world that U.S. carriers are permitted to operate. However, either the U.S. or foreign governments could limit or restrict our authority to operate flights to or over specified countries due to security concerns, armed conflict, international disputes, or for other reasons. For example, certain foreign governments currently restrict the number of charter flights that can be operated to these countries. In light of such restrictions, we may not be able to serve customers seeking charter services to or that would require flying over such countries, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our insurance coverage may become more expensive and difficult to obtain and may not be adequate to insure against all risks. Aviation insurance premiums historically have fluctuated based on factors that include the loss history of the industry in general, and the insured carrier in particular. Future terrorist attacks, accidents and other adverse events involving aircraft could result in increases in insurance costs and could affect the price and availability of such coverage. We have, as have most other U.S. air carriers, purchased our war-risk coverage through a special program administered by the U.S. federal government through the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The FAA is currently providing war-risk hull and cargo loss, crew and third-party liability insurance through September 30, 2011. If the federal war-risk coverage program terminates or provides significantly less coverage in the future, we could face a material increase in the cost of war-risk insurance and may have difficulty in obtaining su fficient coverage. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing coverage on terms favorable to us, that the premiums for such coverage will not increase substantially or that we will not bear substantial losses and lost revenue from accidents or other adverse events. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of related insurance coverage or a significant increase in our 18 Table of Contents current insurance expense could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, while we carry insurance against the risks inherent to our operations, which we believe is consistent with the insurance arrangements of other air carriers, we cannot provide assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks. If our liability exceeds the amounts of our insurance coverage, we would be required to pay the excess amount, which could be material to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the United States are governed by the Railway Labor Act. Under this Act, collective bargaining agreements generally contain “amendable dates” rather than expiration dates. The Railway Labor Act requires that a carrier maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a lengthy, multi-stage series of bargaining processes overseen by the National Mediation Board. This process continues until either the parties have reached agreement on a new collective bargaining agreement or the National Mediation Board releases the parties to “self-help.” After release by the Board, carriers and unions are free to engage in self-help measures, such as strikes and lock-outs. Our employees are organized into five labor groups: World’s pilots and flight attendants and North American’s flight attendants are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters; North American’s pilots are represented by the Air Line Pilots Association; World’s aircraft dispatchers are represented by the Transport Workers Union. The collective bargaining agreement covering World’s flight attendants was ratified in October 2007 and does not become amendable until September 2012. World’s collective bargaining agreement with its cockpit crew is currently in negotiations. The collective bargaining agreement covering World’s aircraft dispatchers will become amendable in December 2013. The collective bargaining agreement covering North American’s flight attendants is also currently in negotiations. The collective bargaining agreement covering North American’s cockpit crew was ratified in May 2008 and does not become amendable until November 2012. We are subject to risks of work interruption or stoppage and we may incur additional expenses associated with the union representation of our employees. We cannot assure you that disputes, including disputes with any unions representing of our employees, will not arise in the future or will result in an agreement on terms satisfactory to us. Such disputes and the inherent costs associated with their resolution could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is also a risk that disgruntled employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in illegal slowdowns, work stoppages, partial work stoppages, sick-outs or other action short of a full strike that could, individually or collectively, materially and adversely affect our operations and impair our financial performance. For example, in January 2006 there was a nine-day strike conducted by World’s pilots. We may be liable for a share of any underfunding of the multiemployer defined pension plan in which some employees participate. The flight attendants employed by World participate in a multiemployer defined benefit pension plan affiliated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. The plan’s actuary has certified that the plan is in critical status, determined in accordance with current pension plan funding rules. This means that the multiemployer plan has funding or liquidity problems, or both. As a result, our obligations to the multiemployer plan have increased and may be subject to further increases in the future. In addition, in the event of our partial or complete withdrawal from this multiemployer plan at a time when it is underfunded, we would be liable for a proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. In the event that any other contributing employer withdraws from the multiemployer plan at a time when it is underfunded, and such employer (or any member in its controlled group) cannot satisfy its obligations under the plan at the time of withdrawal, then we, along with the other remaining contributing employers, would be liable for our proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Although the Company has no intention of voluntarily withdrawing from the multiemployer plan, if we were to do so, the plan’s actuaries have estimated our current share of withdrawal liability at approximately $15.9 million, subject to certain actuarial assumptions, including an interest rate of 6.75% and the 1983 GAM Mortality Table. Assessment of withdrawal liability could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our maintenance costs will increase as our fleet ages. Our operating aircraft were manufactured between 1990 and 2001. In general, the cost to maintain aircraft increases as they age and exceeds the cost to maintain new aircraft. Regulations of the FAA require additional maintenance inspections for older aircraft. We also need to comply with other programs that require enhanced inspections of aircraft, including airworthiness directives, which typically increase as an aircraft ages and vary by aircraft or engine type depending on the individual characteristics of each aircraft or engine. It is possible that additional airworthiness directives applicable to the type of aircraft or engines in our fleet could be issued in the future and that the cost of complying with such airworthiness directives could be substantial. 19 Table of Contents Our business would be materially and adversely affected if a mechanical problem with any of our aircraft were discovered that caused such aircraft to be grounded while the problem is corrected, assuming it could be corrected at all. The FAA could also suspend or restrict the use of certain of our aircraft in the event of any actual or perceived mechanical problems, whether involving our aircraft or that of another U.S. or foreign airline, while it conducted its own investigation. Our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in the event of an accident or other incident involving any of our aircraft or the same types of aircraft we operate. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could involve repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft, its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service and significant potential claims against us for injured passengers and others. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our insurance coverage would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception that we are less safe or reliable than other air carriers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our operating air carriers are comparatively small, an accident would be likely to materially and adversely affect us to a greater degree than it would a larger, more established air carrier. Such accide nts may materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to our limited fleet size, if any of our aircraft becomes unavailable, we may suffer greater damage to our service, reputation and profitability than airlines with larger fleets. As of March 15, 2011, we have an operating fleet of 28 leased aircraft. Given the limited number of aircraft we operate, if an aircraft becomes unavailable due to unscheduled maintenance, repairs or other reasons, we could suffer greater adverse financial and reputational effects than larger air carriers if our flights are delayed or cancelled due to the absence of replacement aircraft. For example, our fleet includes only three B747-400s, which are in high demand in both our military and commercial cargo lines of business. If we are unable to operate those aircraft for a prolonged period of time for reasons outside our control, such as a catastrophic event or a terrorist act, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be disproportionately materially and adversely affected. If we develop problems with any of our third-party service providers, our operations could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in a decline in revenue, increase in expenses or negative public perception about our services. We rely upon others to provide essential services on behalf of our operations. This reliance upon others may result in our relative inability to control the efficiency and timeliness of contract services. We have entered into outsourcing agreements with contractors to provide various services required for our operations, including aircraft maintenance, ground facilities operations and baggage handling. In addition to these existing agreements, it is likely that we will enter into similar agreements in any new regions we decide to serve. Any material problems with the efficiency and timelines of contract services under new or existing service agreements with third parties could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be adversely affected by a failure or disruption of our computer, communications or other technology systems. We are heavily and increasingly dependent, particularly at our operations centers, on technology to operate our business. The computer and communications systems on which we rely could be disrupted due to various events, some of which are beyond our control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment failures, software failures and computer viruses and hackers. We have taken certain steps to help reduce the risk of some of these potential disruptions. There can be no assurance, however, that the measures we have taken are adequate to prevent or remedy disruptions or failures of these systems. Any substantial or repeated failure of these systems could adversely affect our operations, result in the loss of important data, loss of revenues, and increased costs, and generally harm our business. Moreover, a failure of certain of our vital systems could limit our abilit y to operate our flights for an extended period of time, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to use our substantial net operating losses for federal income tax purposes could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. We have substantial net operating losses (NOLs) and other tax attributes for U.S. federal income tax purposes in prior years that we may carry forward (currently, generally up to 20 years), subject to certain limitations, to offset and reduce our current and future U.S. federal taxable income and U.S. federal income tax liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, we have U.S. federal NOL carryforwards totaling approximately $215.5 million, of which approximately $2.7 million are subject to annual utilization limitations pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code, or IRC, Section 382. If not utilized, our NOL carryforwards will begin to expire in 2019. IRC Section 382 contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, which is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year period, to use its NOL carryforwards and certain built-in 20 Table of Contents losses recognized in years after the ownership change. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. Although we believe our initial public offering, if completed, will not result in an ownership change, we could experience an ownership change for purposes of IRC Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock by 5%, or greater, stockholders. An ownership change that is the result of a future transaction with respect to our stock likewise would limit our ability to use our NOL carryforwards and to recognize certain built-in losses after the date such ownership change were to occur. Generally, if an ownership change occurs, the yearly taxable income limitati on on the use of NOL carryforwards and certain built-in losses after such change equals the applicable long-term tax exempt rate (currently roughly 4%) times the value of our stock immediately before the ownership change. Depending on the resulting limitation, a substantial portion of our NOL carryforwards and other tax attributes could expire before we would be able to use them. Our inability to use our NOL carryforwards or certain built-in losses to offset taxable income generated in the future could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our assets as of December 31, 2010 include a deferred tax asset, the full value of which we may not be able to realize. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, our deferred tax assets (most of which were netted against our deferred tax liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet) were approximately $117.5 million, an increase from a balance of approximately $115.2 million at December 31, 2009. Our deferred tax assets are comprised primarily of the expected tax savings from the utilization of our NOL carryforwards. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability based on our history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences. Realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carryback ye ars, as well as future taxable income. Although we believe our initial public offering, if completed, will not result in an ownership change, an ownership change under IRC Section 382 that occurs in the future could affect our ability to realize fully these deferred tax assets. As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement and other laws and regulations that affect how we conduct our business and subject us to certain costs. We must comply with and are affected by many laws and regulations governing the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things: · require, in some cases, certification and disclosure to the government of all of our cost and pricing information in connection with contract negotiations; · impose acquisition regulations that define allowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. government contracts; and · restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. These laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. They have affected how we have conducted our business with our customers, and we expect that they will continue to affect how we conduct our business with our customers in the future. In addition, in some instances, these laws and regulations have imposed added costs on our business, and we expect that such added costs will be applicable to us going forward. A violation of these laws and regulations by us could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our U.S. government contracts or debarment from bidding on future contracts. In addition, the violation of certain other generally applicable laws and regulations could result in our suspension or termination as a government contractor. In addition, U.S. government contractors are generally subject to specific and unique cost accounting standards, or CAS, that may differ from generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, and that generally require more stringent disclosures and related certifications. The contract terms for the AMC international program currently include an exemption from CAS accounting for small businesses such as World and North American, but there can be no assurance that this exemption will continue to apply in the future. If we were to become subject to CAS accounting, we would incur significant costs in hiring third party consultants and implementing new management information systems to ensure compliance. Furthermore, we have bid, and may in the future submit bids, for U.S. government contracts that require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances and require us or our teaming partners to maintain certain security clearances in compliance with the DOD and other government requirements. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it can be difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees or the employees of our teaming partners are unable to obtain or retain security clearances, or if our employees or the employees of our teaming partners who hold security clearances stop working for us or our teaming partners, we may face delays in 21 Table of Contents fulfilling contracts, or be unable to fulfill or secure new contracts, with any customer involved in work requiring government clearance. Any breach of security for which we are responsible could seriously harm our business, damage our reputation and make us ineligible to work on any programs requiring government clearance. Furthermore, security requirements may limit our ability to hire non-United States persons to work for us. Government regulations impose requirements and restrictions on our operations that increase our operating costs. We are subject to extensive regulatory and legal requirements, both domestically and internationally, that involve significant compliance costs. In the last several years, the U.S. Congress has passed laws, and the FAA, the Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) have issued regulations relating to the operation of air carriers that have required significant expenditures. Our business activities also fall within the jurisdiction of the DOD, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Local governments and authorities in certain regions have also adopted regulations governing various aspects of aircraft operations, including noise abatement procedures, curfews and use of airport facilities. These agencies have the authority to modify, amend, suspend or revoke the authority and licenses issued to us necessary to operate our business for failure to comply with law or regulations and may impose civil or criminal penalties for such violations. We expect to continue to incur increased expenses in connection with complying with government regulations, including continuing costs for new security measures and flight duty limitation. Additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of our operations. For example, the FAA is now in the process of evaluating materials resulting from the Advisory Rulemaking Committee process and drafting a notice of proposed rulemaking to modify existing flight and duty time rules. It is likely that the FAA will issue its rulemaking in 2011, to be followed by a new rule that lessens the permissible amount of flight and duty time or increases pilot rest requirements. We can give no assurance that these and other laws or regulations en acted in the future will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the application of various sales, use, occupancy, value-added and other tax laws, rules and regulations to our services is subject to interpretation by the applicable taxing authorities. We cannot assure you that taxing authorities would not take positions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our operating authority in international regions is subject to aviation agreements between the United States and foreign governments and to considerations of comity and reciprocity between the United States and the concerned foreign government. We are subject to these bilateral agreements, which are in turn subject to renegotiation or termination, and comity and reciprocity are subject to review by the relevant governments. Any alteration or termination of such agreements, or restrictions on aircraft operations by governments based on considerations of comity and reciprocity, could diminish the value of route authorities or otherwise adversely affect our international operations. Initiatives to address global climate change may adversely affect our business and increase our costs. Many existing aspects of aircraft operations are subject to stringent environmental regulations. Future legislative or regulatory action to address concerns about climate change in general and the emission of greenhouse gases, in particular, could result in substantial additional costs for us. In addition, the EU has adopted legislation to include aviation within the EU’s existing greenhouse gas emission trading schemes effective in 2012. We cannot assure you that the costs of complying with potential new environmental laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to retain or attract senior management and other key employees. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to retain senior management and other key employees. Competition for qualified personnel can be very intense. Departures of senior management personnel and other key employees could materially and adversely affect our ability to execute our strategy and as a result our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We may experience difficulty finding, training and retaining employees. Our business is labor intensive. We employ a large number of pilots, flight attendants, maintenance technicians and other operating and administrative personnel. Our industry has, from time to time, experienced a shortage of qualified personnel, specifically pilots and maintenance technicians. Should the turnover of employees, particularly pilots and maintenance technicians, sharply increase, our training costs will be significantly higher. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit, train and retain the qualified employees that we need to continue our current operations or replace departing employees. A failure to hire and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Our results of operations will vary among quarters, which will make comparison of our quarterly results difficult. We expect our operating results to fluctuate among quarters in the future based on a variety of factors, including: · fluctuations in demand in our business lines; · the timing and success of our growth or strategic plans; · increases in personnel, marketing, aircraft ownership and other operating expenses to support our anticipated growth; and · the timing and amount of maintenance expenditures. Quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be good indicators of our future performance. It is also possible that our operating results in any future quarter could be below the expectations of investors or any published reports or analyses regarding our company. The selected consolidated historical financial data included in this annual report does not reflect the added costs we expect to incur in order to implement and comply with internal control reporting standards applicable to a public company. As a public company, we will incur significant levels of legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a privately owned corporation. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, and related rules of the SEC and corporate governance practices for public companies impose significant requirements relating to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We expect that compliance with these public company requirements will increase our costs, place additional demands on our finance, legal and accounting staff and on our financial, accounting and information systems and may require additional resources. We expect that we will be required to expend considerable time and resources complying with public company regulations. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may lead investors to lose confidence in our financial data. Maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. We are in the process of testing our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley and the related rules of the SEC. These rules will require, among other things, our management to assess annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, for any year that we are an “accelerated filer” under the rules of the SEC, we will be required to provide a report from our independent registered public accounting firm on our internal control over financial reporting. During the course of testing, we may identify deficiencies that we may be unable to remedy before the requisite deadline for those reports. Currently, we are not considered an accelerated filer. For example, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 principally relating to the accounting for non-routine transactions related to the ATA bankruptcy. Deficiencies were identified in connection with the consolidation of the bankruptcy trust and the tax consequences of the bankrupt entity due to the lack of sufficient technical resources related to these matters. A material weakness is defined as deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements that would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by the company’s internal controls. We believe we have taken the necessary steps to remediate this material weakness. We believe that our remediation efforts have been successful but we cannot assure you that a similar or different material weakness will not recur. Implementing changes to our internal controls may distract our officers and employees, entail substantial costs to implement new processes and modify our existing processes and take significant time to complete. Moreover, these changes do not guarantee that we will be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to ma intain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and harm our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis may harm the valuation of our securities. The reorganization of our predecessor and liquidation of ATA limit the comparability of some of our historical financial information to our current financial information, which will make it more difficult to evaluate the performance of our business. As a result of the emergence from the bankruptcy proceedings of our predecessor in 2006, we adopted fresh start accounting prescribed by GAAP. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are not comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in our predecessor’s financial statements for periods prior to February 28, 2006, included in the selected 23 Table of Contents financial data contained in this annual report. We ceased consolidating the results and operations and financial condition of ATA in our consolidated financial statements as of April 3, 2008 when ATA discontinued all business operations following its Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing. As a result of these factors limiting the comparability of our historical financial statements to our more recent financial information, it may be more difficult for you to assess our future prospects when evaluating our business. Our business can be affected by factors beyond our control, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is affected by factors beyond our control, including air traffic congestion at airports, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, volcanoes, earthquakes and increased security measures. For example, the recent volcano eruptions in Iceland led to significant flight restrictions in European airspace, disrupting operations. Delays increase costs, which in turn affect profitability. During periods of fog, snow, rain, storms or other adverse atmospheric conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. Cancellations or delays due to atmospheric conditions, traffic control problems and breaches in security could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses that we may acquire. From time to time, we may consider acquisition opportunities and may make acquisitions in the future, including acquisitions of companies that may constitute a significant part of our consolidated operations. Acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity anticipated or otherwise perform as expected. Acquisitions involve special risks, including the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses. While it is intended that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot assure you that future acquisitions will be accretive to our earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. The integration of an acquisition involves a number of factors that may affect our operations. These factors include: · diversion of management’s attention; · incurrence of significant amounts of additional debt; · creation of significant contingent earn-out obligations or other financial liabilities; · difficulties in the integration of acquired operations and retention of personnel; · unanticipated problems or legal liabilities; and · tax and accounting issues. A failure to integrate acquisitions may be disruptive to our operations and negatively impact our revenues or increase our expenses. MatlinPatterson ATA Holdings LLC, an affiliate of MatlinPatterson Global Advisors LLC (MatlinPatterson) has significant influence over matters determined by our Board of Directors and is in a position to control the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. MatlinPatterson owns approximately 92% of our outstanding shares as of December 31, 2010. For a description of our share ownership, see “Principal Stockholders.” As a result, MatlinPatterson has the ability to control the outcome of votes on all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, adoption of amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and approval of significant corporate transactions, as long as it continues to hold a controlling percentage of our outstanding common stock. MatlinPatterson will also be able to take actions that have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares. Conflicts of interest may arise, as MatlinPatterson and its affiliates do not have any duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines of business that we do. MatlinPatterson’s affiliates may invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us, or companies in which its affiliates currently invest may begin competing with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of MatlinPatterson and the interests of our other stockholders arise, our directors who are nominated by MatlinPatterson may not be disinterested. 24 Table of Contents 