Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. Risks Related to our Business Our business is dependent on our ability to grow internally. Our business is dependent on our ability to grow internally, which is dependent upon: • our ability to retain existing clients and expand our existing client relationships; and • our ability to attract new clients. Our ability to retain existing clients and expand those relationships is subject to a number of risks, including the risk that: • we fail to maintain the quality of services we provide to our clients; • we fail to maintain the level of attention expected by our clients; • we fail to successfully leverage our existing client relationships to sell additional services; and • we fail to provide competitively priced services. Our ability to attract new clients is subject to a number of risks, including: • the market acceptance of our service offerings; • the quality and effectiveness of our sales force; and • the competitive factors within the BPO industry. -18- Table of Contents If our efforts to retain and expand our client relationships and to attract new clients do not prove effective, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We compete with a large number of providers in the ARM and CRM industries, and other purchasers of consumer debt. This competition could have a materially adverse effect on our future financial results. We compete with a large number of companies in the industries in which we provide services. In the ARM industry, we compete with other sizable corporations in the U.S. and abroad such as Alliance One, GC Services LP and IntelliRisk Management Corporation, as well as many regional and local firms. In the CRM industry, we compete with large customer care outsourcing providers such as Convergys Corporation, ICT Group, TeleTech Holdings, Inc., and West Corporation. We may lose business to competitors that offer more diversified services, have greater financial and other resources and/or operate in broader geographic areas than we do. We may also lose business to regional or local firms who are able to use their proximity to or contacts at local clients as a marketing advantage. In addition, many companies perform the BPO services offered by us in-house. Many larger clients retain multiple BPO providers, which exposes us to continuous competition in order to remain a preferred provider. Because of this competition, in the future we may have to reduce our fees to remain competitive and this competition could have a materially adverse effect on our future financial results. Our Portfolio Management business competes with other purchasers of delinquent consumer accounts receivable, such as Asset Acceptance Capital Corp., Asta Funding, Inc., Encore Capital Group, Inc. and Portfolio Recovery Associates, Inc. The purchased accounts receivable business has become increasingly competitive over the past few years, with several new companies entering the market. While the number of portfolios available for sale has increased, we believe the demand has outweighed the supply, pushing prices higher. The apparent downturn in the economy may have an impact on collectability and related pricing. Our competitors may have greater financial resources or access to credit to purchase portfolios than we do, and may be able to outbid us on available portfolios. In the future we may have to pay more for our portfolios, which could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Many of our clients are concentrated in the financial services, telecommunications, and healthcare sectors. If any of these sectors performs poorly or if there are any adverse trends in these sectors it could materially adversely affect us. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we derived approximately 32.2 percent of our revenue from clients in the financial services sector, approximately 24.1 percent of our revenue from clients in the telecommunications industry, and approximately 13.8 percent of our revenue from clients in the healthcare sector, in each case excluding purchased accounts receivable. If any of these sectors performs poorly, clients in these sectors may do less business with us, or they may elect to perform the services provided by us in-house. If there are any trends in any of these sectors to reduce or eliminate the use of third-party BPO service providers, it could harm our business and results of operations. -19- Table of Contents We have international operations and utilize foreign sources of labor, and various factors relating to our international operations, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, could adversely affect our results of operations. Approximately 8.1% of our 2007 revenues were derived from clients in Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia for ARM and CRM services. Political or economic instability in Canada, the United Kingdom or Australia could have an adverse impact on our results of operations due to diminished revenues in these countries. Our future revenue, costs of operations and profitability could also be affected by a number of other factors related to our international operations, including changes in economic conditions from country to country, changes in a country’s political condition, trade protection measures, licensing and other legal requirements, and local tax or foreign exchange issues. Unanticipated currency fluctuations in the Canadian Dollar, British Pound, Euro or the Australian Dollar could lead to lower reported consolidated results of operations due to the translation of these currencies into U.S. dollars when we consolidate our financial results. We provide ARM and CRM services to our U.S. clients utilizing foreign sources of labor through call centers in Canada, India, the Philippines, Barbados, Antigua, Australia and Panama. Any political or economic instability in these countries could result in our having to replace or reduce these labor sources, which may increase our labor costs and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies of the countries in which we operate could increase our cost of doing business in those countries. In addition, we expect to expand our operations into other countries and, accordingly, will face similar risks with respect to the costs of doing business in such countries including as a result of any decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the currencies of such countries. There is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully hedge our foreign currency exposure in the future. We seek growth opportunities for our business in parts of the world where we have had little or no prior experience. International expansion into new markets with different cultures and laws poses additional risks and costs, including the risk that we will not be able to obtain the required permits, comply with local laws and regulations, hire, train and maintain a workforce, and obtain and maintain physical facilities in a culture and under laws that we are not familiar with. In addition, we may have to customize certain of our collection techniques to work with a different consumer base in a different regulatory environment. Also, we may have to revise certain of our analytical portfolio techniques as we apply them in different countries. We are dependent on our employees and a higher turnover rate would have a material adverse effect on us. We are dependent on our ability to attract, hire and retain qualified employees. The BPO industry, by its nature, is labor intensive and experiences a high employee turnover rate. Many of our employees receive modest hourly wages and some of these employees are employed on a part-time basis. A higher turnover rate among our employees would increase our recruiting and training costs and could materially adversely impact the quality of services we provide to our clients. If we were unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of employees, we would be forced to limit our growth or possibly curtail our operations. Growth in our business will require us to recruit and train qualified personnel at an accelerated rate from time to time. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees to meet the needs of our business or to support our growth. If we are unable to do so, our results of operations could be harmed. Any increase in hourly wages, costs of employee benefits or employment taxes could also have a materially adverse affect on our results of operations. -20- Table of Contents The employees at one of our offices voted to join a labor union, which could increase our costs and result in a loss of customers. In February 2006, the employees at our call center in Surrey, British Columbia, Canada voted in favor of joining the B.C. Government and Services Employees’ Union. A collective agreement was ratified by the employees in the first quarter of 2007. This action, as well as that of any other employees who are successful in organizing a labor union at any of our locations, could further increase labor costs, decrease operating efficiency and productivity in the future, result in office closures, and result in a loss of customers. Additionally, during May 2006, our Jackson, Michigan facility was the subject of a union campaign from the Teamsters. In July 2007, the Syndicat Canadien des Communications, de l’Énergie et du Papier (SCEP), filed a petition with the Montreal, Quebec labour board for one of our facilities in Montreal to be represented. This location performed work for one client, with whom we discontinued our relationship for other business reasons. We are currently not aware of any other union organizing efforts at any of our other facilities. If we are not able to respond to technological changes in telecommunications and computer systems in a timely manner, we may not be able to remain competitive. Our success depends in large part on our sophisticated telecommunications and computer systems. We use these systems to identify and contact large numbers of debtors and record the results of our collection efforts, as well as to provide customer service to our clients’ customers. If we are not able to respond to technological changes in telecommunications and computer systems in a timely manner, we may not be able to remain competitive. We have made a significant investment in technology to remain competitive and we anticipate that it will be necessary to continue to do so in the future. Telecommunications and computer technologies are changing rapidly and are characterized by short product life cycles, so we must anticipate technological developments. If we are not successful in anticipating, managing, or adopting technological changes on a timely basis or if we do not have the capital resources available to invest in new technologies, our business could be materially adversely affected. We are highly dependent on our telecommunications and computer systems. As noted above, our business is highly dependent on our telecommunications and computer systems. These systems could be interrupted by terrorist acts, natural disasters, power losses, computer viruses, or similar events. Our business is also materially dependent on services provided by various local and long distance telephone companies. If our equipment or systems cease to work or become unavailable, or if there is any significant interruption in telephone services, we may be prevented from providing services and collecting on accounts receivable portfolios we have purchased. Because we generally recognize revenue and generate operating cash flow primarily through ARM collections and providing CRM services, any failure or interruption of services and collections would mean that we would continue to incur payroll and other expenses without any corresponding income. An increase in communication rates or a significant interruption in communication service could harm our business. Our ability to offer services at competitive rates is highly dependent upon the cost of communication services provided by various local and long distance telephone companies. Any change in the telecommunications market that would affect our ability to obtain favorable rates on communication services could harm our business. Moreover, any significant interruption in -21- Table of Contents communication service or developments that could limit the ability of telephone companies to provide us with increased capacity in the future could harm existing operations and prospects for future growth. We may seek to make strategic acquisitions of companies. Acquisitions involve additional risks that may adversely affect us. From time to time, we may seek to make acquisitions of businesses that provide BPO services. We may be unable to make acquisitions if suitable businesses that provide BPO services are not available at favorable prices due to increased competition for these businesses. We may have to borrow money, incur liabilities, or sell or issue stock to pay for future acquisitions and we may not be able to do so on terms favorable to us, or at all. Additional borrowings and liabilities may have a materially adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. If we issue stock for all or a portion of the purchase price for future acquisitions, our stockholders’ ownership interest may be diluted. Our common stock is not publicly traded and potential sellers may be unwilling to accept equity in a privately held company as payment for the sale of their business. If potential sellers are not willing to accept our common stock as payment for the sale of their business, we may be required to use more of our cash resources, if available, in order to continue our acquisition strategy. Completing acquisitions involves a number of risks, including diverting management’s attention from our daily operations, other additional management, operational and financial resources, system conversions and the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition relationships with customers, suppliers and employees. We might not be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions into our business or operate the acquired businesses profitably, and we may be subject to unanticipated problems and liabilities of acquired companies. Our success depends on our senior management team and if we are not able to retain them, it could have a materially adverse effect on us. We are highly dependent upon the continued services and experience of our senior management team, including Michael J. Barrist, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. We depend on the services of Mr. Barrist and the other members of our senior management team to, among other things, continue the development and implementation of our growth strategies, and maintain and develop our client relationships. Goodwill and other intangible assets represented 60.9 percent of our total assets at December 31, 2007. If the goodwill or the other intangible assets, primarily our customer relationships and trade name, are deemed to be impaired, we may need to take a charge to earnings to write-down the goodwill or other intangibles to its fair value. Our balance sheet includes goodwill, which represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair market value of the net assets of acquired businesses based on their respective fair values at the date of acquisition. Trade name represents the fair value of the NCO name and is an indefinite-lived intangible asset. Other intangibles are composed of customer relationships, which represent the information and regular contact we have with our clients and non-compete agreements. Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment. The test for impairment uses a fair value based approach, whereby if the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill is less than its carrying amount, goodwill -22- Table of Contents would be considered impaired. We make significant assumptions to estimate the future revenue and cash flows used to determine the fair value of our reporting units. If the expected revenue and cash flows are not realized or if a sustained significant depression in our market capitalization indicates that our assumptions are not accurately estimating our fair value, impairment losses may be recorded in the future. The trade name intangible asset is also reviewed for impairment on an annual basis. Our other intangibles, consisting of customer relationships and non-compete agreements, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. For example, the loss of a larger client could require a review of the customer relationship for impairment. We made significant assumptions to estimate the future cash flows used to determine the fair value of the customer relationship. If we lost a significant customer relationship, the future cash flows expected to be generated by the customer relationship would be less than the carrying amount, and an impairment loss may be recorded. As of December 31, 2007, our balance sheet included goodwill, trade name and other intangibles that represented 37.7 percent, 5.9 percent and 17.2 percent of total assets, respectively, and 168.3 percent, 26.4 percent and 76.7 percent of stockholders’ equity, respectively. If our goodwill, trade name or customer relationships are deemed to be impaired, we may need to take a charge to earnings to write-down the asset to its fair value. Security and privacy breaches of the systems we use to protect personal data could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our databases contain personal data of our clients’ customers, including credit card and healthcare information. Any security or privacy breach of these databases could expose us to liability, increase our expenses relating to the resolution of these breaches and deter our clients from selecting our services. Our data security procedures may not effectively counter evolving security risks, address the security and privacy concerns of existing or potential clients or be compliant with federal, state, and local laws and regulations in all respects. Any failures in our security and privacy measures could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our management has concluded that as of December 31, 2007, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective and we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent or detect fraud. As of December 31, 2007, our control procedures did not include adequate review over the completeness and accuracy of our income tax accounts to ensure compliance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Our management determined that this control deficiency constituted a material weakness as of December 31, 2007. Additionally, our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2007, due to the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as discussed above. Our management has begun a process to remediate the material weakness discussed above. If we are not successful in this remediation, or if we identify any other material weakness or control deficiencies, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results and comply with the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. As a result, our current and potential customers, lenders, investors and noteholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Exchange Act, which could adversely affect our business and we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”), we are required, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K, our management’s report on internal control over financial reporting and the registered public accounting firm’s attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting. Compliance with the requirements of Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming. If we fail to complete this evaluation in a timely manner, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting. Terrorist attacks, war and threats of attacks and war may adversely impact our results of operations, revenue and profitability. Terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad, as well as war and threats of war or actual conflicts involving the United States or other countries in which we operate, may adversely impact our operations, including affecting our ability to collect our clients’ accounts receivable. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease. They could also result in an adverse effect on the economies of the United States and other countries in which we operate. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, collections and revenue. -23- Table of Contents Risks Related to our ARM Business We are subject to business-related risks specific to the ARM business. Some of those risks are: Decreases in our collections due to economic conditions in the United States may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, revenue and profitability. Deterioration in economic conditions in the United States may lead to higher rates of unemployment and personal bankruptcy filings and decrease the ability of consumers to pay their debts. Defaulted consumer loans that we service or purchase are generally unsecured, and we may be unable to collect these loans in the case of personal bankruptcy of a consumer. Increases in unemployment rates and bankruptcy filings may result in a decline in our collections, which may adversely impact our results of operations, revenue and profitability. Most of our ARM contracts do not require clients to place accounts with us, may be terminated on 30 or 60 days notice, and are on a contingent fee basis. We cannot guarantee that existing clients will continue to use our services at historical levels, if at all. Under the terms of most of our ARM contracts, clients are not required to give accounts to us for collection and usually have the right to terminate our services on 30 or 60 days notice. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that existing clients will continue to use our services at historical levels, if at all. In addition, most of these contracts provide that we are entitled to be paid only when we collect accounts. Therefore, for these contracts, we can only recognize revenues upon the collection of funds on behalf of clients. If we fail to comply with government regulation of the collections industry, it could result in the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct business. The collections industry is regulated under various U.S. federal and state, Canadian, United Kingdom and Australian laws and regulations. Many states, as well as Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia, require that we be licensed as a debt collection company. The Federal Trade Commission, referred to as the FTC, has the authority to investigate consumer complaints against debt collection companies and to recommend enforcement actions and seek monetary penalties. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it could result in fines as well as the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct collections, which would materially adversely affect us. State regulatory authorities have similar powers. For example, the New York and Texas Attorneys General are currently conducting inquiries or investigations regarding our debt collection practices in such states. If such matters resulted in further investigations and subsequent enforcement actions, we could be subject to fines as well as the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct collections, which would materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, new federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, or changes in the ways these rules or laws are interpreted or enforced, could limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. If we expand our international operations, we may become subject to additional government controls and regulations in other countries, which may be stricter or more burdensome than those in the United States. Several of the industries we serve are also subject to varying degrees of government regulation. Although our clients are generally responsible for complying with these regulations, we could be subject to various enforcement or private actions for our failure, or the failure of our clients, to comply with these regulations. -24- Table of Contents Risks Related to our CRM Business We are subject to business-related risks specific to the CRM business. Some of those risks are: Consumer resistance to outbound services could harm the CRM services industry. As the CRM services industry continues to grow, the effectiveness of CRM services as a direct marketing tool may decrease as a result of consumer saturation and increased consumer resistance to customer acquisition activities, particularly direct sales and telemarketing. This could result in a decrease in the demand for our CRM services. The CRM division relies on a few key clients for a significant portion of its revenues. The loss of any of these clients or their failure to pay us could reduce revenues and adversely affect results of operations. The CRM division is characterized by substantial revenues from a few key clients. While no individual CRM client represented more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenue, we are exposed to customer concentration within this division. Most of these clients are not contractually obligated to continue to use our services at historic levels or at all. If any of these clients were to significantly reduce the amount of service, fail to pay, or terminate the relationship altogether, our CRM business could be harmed. A decrease in demand for CRM services in one or more of the industries to which we provide services could reduce revenues and adversely affect results of operations. Our CRM business is concentrated in the telecommunications industry. During 2004, announcements were made by a number of telecommunications companies that they were significantly reducing their participation in consumer markets. As a result, there have been reductions of services performed for certain of our telecommunications clients. A further reduction of such services or the elimination of the use of outsourced CRM services in this or any other industry could harm our CRM business. Government regulation of the CRM industry and the industries we serve may increase our costs and restrict the operation and growth of our CRM business. The CRM services industry is subject to an increasing amount of regulation in the United States and Canada. In the United States, the FCC places restrictions on unsolicited automated telephone calls to residential telephone subscribers by means of automatic telephone dialing systems, prerecorded or artificial voice messages and telephone fax machines, and requires CRM firms to develop a “do not call” list and to train their CRM personnel to comply with these restrictions. The FTC regulates both general sales practices and telemarketing specifically and has broad authority to prohibit a variety of advertising or marketing practices that may constitute “unfair or deceptive acts or practices.” Most of the statutes and regulations in the United States allow a private right of action for the recovery of damages or provide for enforcement by the FTC, state attorneys general or state agencies permitting the recovery of significant civil or criminal penalties, costs and attorneys’ fees in the event that regulations are violated. The Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission enforces rules regarding unsolicited communications using automatic dialing and announcing devices, live voice and fax. We cannot assure you that we will be in compliance with all applicable regulations at all times. We also cannot assure you that new laws, if enacted, will not adversely affect or limit our current or future operations. -25- Table of Contents Several of the industries we serve, particularly the insurance, financial services and telecommunications industries, are subject to government regulation. We could be subject to a variety of private actions or regulatory enforcement for our failure or the failure of our clients to comply with these regulations. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if the effect of government regulation of the industries we serve is to reduce the demand for our CRM services or expose us to potential liability. We, and our employees who sell insurance products, are required to be licensed by various state insurance commissions for the particular type of insurance product sold and to participate in regular continuing education programs. Our participation in these insurance programs requires us to comply with certain state regulations, changes in which could materially increase our operating costs associated with complying with these regulations. Risks Related to our Purchased Accounts Receivable Business We are subject to business-related risks specific to the Purchased Accounts Receivable business. Some of those risks are: Collections may not be sufficient to recover the cost of investments in purchased accounts receivable and support operations. We purchase past due accounts receivable generated primarily by consumer credit transactions. These are obligations that the individual consumer has failed to pay when due. The accounts receivable are purchased from consumer creditors such as banks, finance companies, retail merchants, hospitals, utilities, and other consumer-oriented companies. Substantially all of the accounts receivable consist of account balances that the credit grantor has made numerous attempts to collect, has subsequently deemed uncollectible, and charged off. After purchase, collections on accounts receivable could be reduced by consumer bankruptcy filings. The accounts receivable are purchased at a significant discount, typically less than 10 percent of face value, and, although we estimate that the recoveries on the accounts receivable will be in excess of the amount paid for the accounts receivable, actual recoveries on the accounts receivable will vary and may be less than the amount expected, and may even be less than the purchase price paid for such accounts. In addition, the timing or amounts to be collected on those accounts receivable cannot be assured. If cash flows from operations are less than anticipated as a result of our inability to collect accounts receivable, we may have difficulty servicing our debt obligations and may not be able to purchase new accounts receivable, and our future growth and profitability will be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our operating performance will be sufficient to service our debt or finance the purchase of new accounts receivable. We use estimates to report results. If collections on portfolios are materially less than expected, we may be required to record impairment expenses that could have a materially adverse effect on us. Our revenue is recognized based on estimates of future collections on portfolios of accounts receivable purchased. Although these estimates are based on analytics, the actual amount collected on portfolios and the timing of those collections will differ from our estimates. If collections on portfolios are materially less than estimated, we may be required to record an impairment on our purchased receivables portfolio that could materially adversely affect our earnings, financial condition and creditworthiness. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded an impairment charge of $25.0 million on our purchased receivables portfolio. -26- Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by possible shortages of available accounts receivable for purchase at favorable prices. The availability of portfolios of past due consumer accounts receivable for purchase at favorable prices depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including the continuation of the current growth trend in consumer debt and competitive factors affecting potential purchasers and sellers of portfolios of accounts receivable. The growth in consumer debt may also be affected by changes in credit grantors’ underwriting criteria and regulations governing consumer lending. Any slowing of the consumer debt growth trend could result in less credit being extended by credit grantors. Consequently, fewer delinquent accounts receivable could be available at prices that we find attractive. If competitors raise the prices they are willing to pay for portfolios of accounts receivable above those we wish to pay, we may be unable to buy the type and quantity of past due accounts receivable at prices consistent with our historic return targets. In addition, we may overpay for portfolios of delinquent accounts receivable, which may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be unable to compete with other purchasers of past due accounts receivable, which may have an adverse effect on our combined financial results. We face bidding competition in our acquisitions of portfolios of past due consumer accounts receivable. Some of our existing competitors and potential new competitors may have greater financial and other resources that allow them to offer higher prices for the accounts receivable portfolios. New purchasers of such portfolios entering the market also cause upward price pressures. We may not have the resources or ability to compete successfully with our existing and potential new competitors. To remain competitive, we may have to increase our bidding prices, which may have an adverse impact on our financial results. Risks Related to our Structure We are controlled by an investor group led by One Equity Partners, a private equity firm, and its affiliates, whose interests may not be aligned with those of our noteholders. Our equity investors control the election of our directors and thereby have the power to control our affairs and policies, including the appointment of management, the issuance of additional stock, stock repurchase programs and the declaration and payment of dividends. In addition, our equity investors must consent to the entering into of mergers, sales of substantially all our assets and certain other transactions. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of our equity investors could be in conflict with those of our noteholders. For example if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, our equity investors might pursue strategies that favor equity investors over our debt investors. One Equity Partners may also have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financing or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transaction might involve risk to our noteholders. Additionally, One Equity Partners is not prohibited from making investments in any of our competitors. -27- Table of Contents 