ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Market Rates of Interest May Hurt Profitability In recent years, market rates of interest had risen from historically low levels. Many institutions, including Abington Bank, had experienced a narrowing or “compression” of their net interest spread, which is the difference between the average yield earned on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Abington Bank’s net interest spread was 1.94% for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 2.13% and 2.27% for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Although rates began to fall in September 2007, and our net interest spread has improved since that point, future rate increases are possible. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest expense paid on our liabilities. In addition, increases in market rates of interest could adversely affect our net portfolio value. In the event of an immediate and sustained 200 basis point increase in interest rates, Abington Bank’s net portfolio value, which is the present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts, would decrease by $25.1 million or 13.21%. Under the same circumstances, our net interest income would be expected to decrease by $1.6 million or 5.24%. Competition for Core Deposits Is Increasing Partially as a result of rising interest rates in recent years, deposit customers have transferred significant amounts of their deposits from low-cost “core deposits” such as checking and savings accounts to certificates of deposit, also known as time deposits. For the year ended December 31, 2007 core deposits comprised 32.0% of our average total deposits compared to 33.7% and 47.9% for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At December 31, 2007, $414.6 million, or 68.0% of our total deposits were certificates of deposit, and of that amount $246.5 million or 59.5% of our total certificates of deposit, were “jumbo” certificates of $100,000 or more. Our balances of certificates of deposit has increased as a result of, among other factors, the increased rates available on those products relative to other deposit products or other investments in the prevailing interest rate environment. Although interest rates are currently falling, as competition for core deposits continues to increase, it is possible that the percentage of our total deposits that are core deposits will continue to shrink. If more of our customers invest in time deposits, or if core deposits are lost to competition, the average rate Abington Bank pays on its deposits will be relatively higher. This will have the effect of narrowing our net interest spread and net interest margin relative to the levels at which they might have been had a higher percentage of our deposits been in core deposits. This could aversely affect our profitability. The average rate we paid on our interest-bearing deposits was 3.81% for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to 3.39% and 2.38% for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 32 Our Portfolio of Loans With a Higher Risk of Loss Is Increasing In recent years, we have increased our originations of construction loans and commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate loans. These loans have a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans. The aggregate of construction loans and commercial real estate and multi-family residential loans has increased from $130.9 million or 32.7 % of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2003 to $245.8 million or 33.2% of the total loan portfolio at December 31, 2007. Construction loans and commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate loans all generally have a higher risk of loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of a business or the underlying property. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had $1.4 million and $2.3 million, respectively, of commercial real estate and multi-family residential loans and construction loans that were considered non-performing. These loans were deemed to be impaired and placed on non-accrual status. The impaired loans at December 31, 2007 were comprised of one construction and four commercial real estate loans to one borrower. The impaired loans at December 31, 2006 were comprised of two construction and three commercial real estate loans to the same borrower. Our Results of Operations are Significantly Dependent on Economic Conditions and Related Uncertainties Banking is affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates, in particular, could adversely affect our net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on our operations, as discussed the first risk factor above. Adverse economic conditions also could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures and nonperforming assets and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral which secures our loans, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties in the Delaware Valley because we derive substantially all of our loans, deposits and other business from the greater Philadelphia region in eastern Pennsylvania and contiguous counties in New Jersey and Delaware. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with prolonged declines in national or local economies. Our Allowance for Losses on Loans May Not Be Adequate to Cover Probable Losses We have established an allowance for loan losses based upon various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. Since we must use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and increases in the allowance may become necessary in the future. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may also need to significantly increase our provision for loan losses, particularly if one or more of our larger loans or credit relationships becomes delinquent. In addition, federal regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 116.8% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2007. 33 Our Loans are Concentrated to Borrowers In Our Market Area At December 31, 2007, the preponderance of our total loans were to individuals and/or secured by properties located in our market area of the Delaware Valley region. We have relatively few loans outside of our market. As a result, we have a greater risk of loan defaults and losses in the event of an economic downturn in our market area as adverse economic changes may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayment of their loans. Additionally, a decline in local property values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. The Building of Market Share Through our Branching Strategy Could Cause our Expenses to Increase Faster than Revenues We intend to continue to build market share through our branching strategy. We opened four new branches in 2007 and have plans to open additional branches within the next 24 months. There are costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch may negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, we have no assurance our new branches will be successful even after they have been established. We are Dependent Upon the Services of Our Management Team Our future success and profitability depend upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management. We are especially dependent on a limited number of key management personnel. The loss of our chief executive officer or other senior executive officers could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are Subject to Extensive Regulation Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Operations We are subject to extensive federal and state governmental supervision and regulation, which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. In addition, we are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as changes in regulations, governmental policies and accounting principles. The effects of any such potential changes cannot be predicted but could adversely affect our business and operations in the future. 34 Strong Competition Within our Market Area May Limit our Growth and Profitability Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operatin locally and elsewhere. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 