ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our Results of Operations are Significantly Dependent on Economic Conditions and Related Uncertainties Banking is affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of the downturn in the economy accompanying the national recession, among other factors, we saw a significant increase in delinquent and non-performing loans during 2009 and 2008 over the respective prior years as well as declines in property values of the collateral securing loans we have made. The negative economic factors being experienced in our market area could continue to have adverse effects upon our operations. We are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties in the Delaware Valley because we derive substantially all of our loans, deposits and other business from the greater Philadelphia region in eastern Pennsylvania and contiguous counties in New Jersey and Delaware. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with a continuing and prolonged decline in the national or local economies. Changes in interest rates also could adversely affect our net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on our operations, as discussed further in the risk factors below. Our Allowance for Losses on Loans May Not Be Adequate to Cover Probable Losses We have established an allowance for loan losses based upon various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. Since we must use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and increases in the allowance may become necessary in the future. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may also need to significantly increase our provision for loan losses, particularly if one or more of our larger loans or credit relationships becomes delinquent. In addition, federal regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. During the year ended December 31, 2009, our provision for loan losses was $18.7 million compared to $9.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The provision during 2009 was made upon consideration of, among other factors, management’s further review of certain delinquent and impaired construction and commercial real estate loans. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 26.28% of non-performing loans and 1.17% of total loans at December 31, 2009. Our Loans are Concentrated to Borrowers In Our Market Area At December 31, 2009, the preponderance of our total loans were to individuals and/or secured by properties located in our market area of the Delaware Valley region. We have relatively few loans outside of our market. As a result, we have a greater risk of loan defaults and losses in the event of an economic downturn in our market area as adverse economic changes may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayment of their loans. Beginning in 2008 and continuing in 2009 and 2010, the Delaware Valley region has experienced a rise in unemployment as well as certain declines in real estate values, both residential and commercial. The decline in real estate values has adversely affected the value of certain collateral securing loans in our portfolio. Continuing increases in unemployment or declines in collateral values could be a factor requiring us to make additional provisions to the allowance for loan losses, which would have a negative impact on net income. Additionally, if we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents Market Rates of Interest May Hurt Profitability Interest rates have recently reached historically low levels. It is likely that, over time, and possibly beginning in 2010, interest rates will increase to what have historically been considered more normal levels. Although management of the Bank attempts to manage this risk, in a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest expense paid on our liabilities. As a result, Abington Bank may experience a narrowing or “compression” of our net interest spread, which is the difference between the average yield earned on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Abington Bank’s net interest spread was 2.43% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 2.21% and 1.94% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In the event of an immediate and sustained 200 basis point increase in interest rates, Abington Bank’s net interest income would be expected to increase by $112,000 or 0.31%. Under the same circumstances, our net portfolio value, which is the present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts, would decrease by $21.1 million or 11.47%. Competition for Core Deposits Is Increasing At December 31, 2009, $456.8 million, or 53.8% of our total deposits were certificates of deposit, also known as time deposits, and of that amount $246.0 million or 53.9% of our total certificates of deposit, were “jumbo” certificates of $100,000 or more. At December 31, 2009, low-cost “core deposits” comprised 46.2% of our average total deposits compared to 38.2% and 32.0% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our success in raising core deposits during 2009 was partially a result of the historically low rates of interest during the year, which caused the return available on time deposits relative to other deposit products, such as core deposits, or other investments to decrease. However, as interest rates rise from their present levels, it is likely that a portion of our customers will transfer significant amounts of their deposits from core deposits to time deposits. In addition, as competition for core deposits continues to increase, it is possible that the percentage of our total deposits that are core deposits will shrink. In today’s economic landscape, banks face competition for core deposits not only from traditional competitors such as other banks and credit unions, but also from investment companies that have reorganized as bank holding companies in the wake of the recent turmoil on Wall Street. If more of our customers invest in time deposits, or if core deposits are lost to competition, the average rate Abington Bank pays on its deposits will be relatively higher. This will have the effect of narrowing our net interest spread and net interest margin relative to the levels at which they might have been had a higher percentage of our deposits been in core deposits. This could adversely affect our profitability. The average rate we paid on our interest-bearing deposits was 2.13% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 2.85% and 3.81% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our Portfolio of Loans With a Higher Risk of Loss Has Increased in Recent Years In recent years, we have increased our originations of construction loans and commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate loans. These loans have a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans. The aggregate of construction loans and commercial real estate and multi-family residential loans has increased from $209.4 million or 35.5 % of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2005 to $339.1 million or 40.9% of the total loan portfolio at December 31, 2009. While we will continue to cautiously originate these types of loans, we expect that lending opportunities may be limited as a result of, among other factors, the current economic environment, and it is likely that we will experience a reduction in our origination of these types of loans in 2010. Construction loans and commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate loans all generally have a higher risk of loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of a business or the underlying property. At December 31, 2009, $29.3 million or 19.6% of our total outstanding construction loans (which include land acquisition and development loans) were non-performing, and at such date, $6.7 million, or 73.3%, of our allowance for loan losses was allocated to construction loans. Additionally, $4.8 million of our total outstanding commercial real estate and multi-family residential loans were non-performing at such date. At December 31, 2008, the Company had $20.6 million and $2.6 million construction and commercial real estate and multi-family residential loans, respectively, that were considered non-performing. 38 Table of Contents We are Dependent Upon the Services of Our Management Team Our future success and profitability depend upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management. We are especially dependent on a limited number of key management personnel. The loss of our chief executive officer or other senior executive officers could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are Subject to Extensive Regulation Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Operations We are subject to extensive federal and state governmental supervision and regulation, which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. In addition, we are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as changes in regulations, governmental policies and accounting principles. The effects of any such potential changes cannot be predicted but could adversely affect our business and operations in the future. Given the current status of the national economy and the well publicized financial and operational difficulties at many financial institutions, there is potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending, liquidity standards, capital requirements and other aspects of our banking business. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Any future Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums or special assessments will adversely impact our earnings. On May 22, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of approximately $500,000 during the year ended December 31, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. Any further special assessments that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation increased the general assessment rate and, therefore, our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation general insurance premium expense will increase compared to prior periods. 39 Table of Contents On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted regulations that require insured depository institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009 their estimated assessments for the fourth calendar quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The new regulations base the assessment rate for the fourth calendar quarter of 2009 and for 2010 on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 on the modified third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. Under the prepaid assessment rule, we made a payment of $4.6 million to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on December 30, 2009, and recorded $4.3 million of this payment as a prepaid expense. The prepaid balance will be reduced by the actual expense for our quarterly assessments, until the balance is exhausted. Depending on how our actual assessments compare to the estimated assessments, the prepaid balance may be exhausted earlier than or later than the planned three year time period. Proposed regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. The Obama Administration has published a comprehensive regulatory reform plan that is intended to modernize and protect the integrity of the United States financial system and has offered proposed legislation to accomplish these reforms. The President’s plan contains several elements that would have a direct effect on the Company and the Bank. Under the proposed legislation, the Office of Thrift Supervision would be eliminated and all companies that control an insured depository institution, such as the Company, will be required to register as bank holding companies. As a result of the Bank’s election pursuant to Section 10(l) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act, the Company is currently a savings and loan holding company regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Registration as a bank holding company would represent a significant change, as there currently exist significant differences between savings and loan holding company and bank holding company supervision and regulation. For example, the Federal Reserve imposes leverage and risk-based capital requirements on bank holding companies whereas the Office of Thrift Supervision does not impose any capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 40 Table of Contents 