ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and productive financial advisors and financial institutions. Our ability to attract and retain experienced and productive financial advisors and financial institutions has contributed significantly to our growth and success, and our strategic plan is premised upon continued growth in the number of our financial advisors. If we fail to attract new financial advisors and financial institutions or to retain and motivate our current financial advisors and financial institutions, our business may suffer. The market for experienced and productive financial advisors is highly competitive. In attracting financial advisors, we compete directly with a variety of financial institutions such as wirehouses, regional broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies and other independent broker-dealers. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit the financial advisors needed to achieve our growth objectives. Financial advisors licensed with us may in the future leave us at any time to pursue other opportunities. We devote considerable resources to encouraging our financial advisors and financial institutions to remain with us and can give no assurances that our efforts will succeed. Poor service or performance of the investment products that we offer or weaker pricing of such service or products may cause retail investors to withdraw their assets on short notice. Retail investors control the aggregate amount of their assets under management with us. Poor service or performance of the investment products that we offer relative to our competitors or weaker pricing of such service or products may result in the loss of accounts. The decrease in revenue that could result from such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business. 13 Table of Contents Our business is exposed to market risk. Our financial results are influenced by the willingness or ability of customers to maintain or increase their investment activities in the financial products distributed by us. As a result, general economic and market factors can affect our commission and fee revenue. For example, a decrease in market levels can: •reduce new investments by both new and existing clients in financial products that are linked to the stock market, such as variable life insurance, variable annuities, mutual funds and managed accounts; •reduce trading activity, thereby affecting our brokerage commissions; •reduce the value of assets under management, thereby reducing asset-based fee income; and •motivate clients to withdraw funds from their accounts, reducing assets under management, advisory fee revenue, and asset-based fee income. In addition, a decline in interest rates could have an adverse effect upon our ICA Program and our business in general. Regulatory developments and our failure to comply with regulations could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to extensive United States regulation and supervision, including securities and investment advisory services. The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, various securities and futures exchanges and other U.S. governmental or regulatory authorities continuously review legislative and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations. There can also be no assurance that existing regulations will not change or that federal, state or foreign agencies will not attempt to further regulate our business. These legislative and regulatory initiatives may affect the way in which we conduct our business and may make our business less profitable. Our ability to conduct business in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate depends on our compliance with the laws, rules and regulations promulgated by federal regulatory bodies and the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance, audit and risk management personnel. While we have adopted policies and procedures reasonably designed to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, these systems and procedures may not be fully effective, and there can be no assurance that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with respect to our past or future compliance with applicable regulations. We also are subject to various laws, regulations, and rules setting forth requirements regarding privacy and data protection. If our policies, procedures and systems are found to not comply with these requirements, we could be subject to regulatory actions or litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We are subject to various regulatory capital requirements, which, if not complied with, could result in the restriction of the ongoing conduct, growth, or even liquidation of parts of our business. The SEC, FINRA and CFTC have extensive rules and regulations with respect to capital requirements. The net capital rule under the Exchange Act requires that at least a minimum part of a broker-dealer's assets be maintained in a relatively liquid form. Our ability to withdraw capital from LPL Financial could be restricted, which in turn could limit our ability to fund operations, repay debt and redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain our present levels of business. 14 Table of Contents Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could make some of the products distributed by our financial advisors less attractive to clients. Some of the products distributed by our financial advisors enjoy favorable treatment under current U.S. federal income tax law. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could make some of these products less attractive to clients and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Failure to comply with ERISA regulations could result in penalties against us. We are subject to ERISA, and to regulations promulgated thereunder, insofar as we act as a "fiduciary" under ERISA with respect to benefit plan clients. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit specified transactions involving ERISA plan clients and provide monetary penalties for violations of these prohibitions. Our failure to comply with these requirements could result in significant penalties against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business (or, in a worst case, severely limit the extent to which we could act as fiduciaries for any plans under ERISA). Our business is subject to risks related to litigation, arbitration actions and governmental and self regulatory organization investigations. We are subject to legal proceedings arising out of our business operations, including lawsuits, arbitration claims, regulatory, governmental or self regulatory organization subpoenas, investigations and actions, and other claims. Many of our legal claims are client initiated and involve the purchase or sale of investment securities. In our investment advisory programs, we have fiduciary obligations that require us and our financial advisors to act in the best interests of our financial advisors' clients. We may face liabilities for actual or claimed breaches of these fiduciary duties. In addition, we, along with other industry participants, are subject to risks related to litigation and settlements arising from market events such as the failures in the auction rate securities market. The outcome of any such actions cannot be predicted, and although we believe we have adequate insurance coverage, for these matters (see "—Our errors and omissions insurance coverage may be inadequate or expensive"), no assurance can be given that such legal proceedings would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate or expensive. We are subject to claims in the ordinary course of business. These claims may involve substantial amounts of money and involve significant defense costs. It is not always possible to prevent or detect activities giving rise to claims, and the precautions we take may not be effective in all cases. We maintain voluntary and required insurance coverage, including, among others, general liability, property, director and officer, excess-SIPC, business interruption, errors and omissions, excess entity errors and omissions and fidelity bond insurance. Recently, premium and deductible costs associated with certain insurance coverages have increased, coverage terms have become more restrictive and the number of insurers has decreased. While we endeavor to purchase coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of our risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. Our business may be negatively affected if in the future our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. In addition, insurance claims may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. 15 Table of Contents Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risks. We have adopted policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our risks, including, among other things, establishing our Enterprise Risk Management group with an internal audit function. These policies and procedures, however, may not be fully effective. Some of our risk evaluation methods depend upon information provided by others and public information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are otherwise accessible by us. In some cases, however, that information may not be accurate, complete or up-to-date. Also, because our financial advisors work in small, decentralized offices, additional risk management challenges may exist. If our policies and procedures are not fully effective or we are not always successful in capturing all risks to which we are or may be exposed, our business could be materially adversely affected. Misconduct and errors by our employees and our customers could harm our business. Misconduct and errors by our employees and our customers could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm. We cannot always deter misconduct and errors by our employees and our customers, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Prevention and detection among our customers, who are not our employees and some of whom tend to be located in small, decentralized offices, present additional challenges. There cannot be any assurance that misconduct and errors by our employees and customers will not lead to a material adverse effect on our business. The securities settlement process exposes us to risks that may impact our liquidity and profitability. LPL Financial provides clearing services and trade processing for our financial advisors and their clients and certain financial institutions. Broker-dealers that clear their own trades are subject to substantially more regulatory requirements than brokers that outsource these functions to third-party providers. Errors in performing clearing functions, including clerical, technological and other errors related to the handling of funds and securities held by us on behalf of clients, could lead to censures, fines or other sanctions imposed by applicable regulatory authorities as well as losses and liability in related lawsuits and proceedings brought by our financial advisors' clients and others. Any unsettled securities transactions or wrongly executed transactions may expose our financial advisors and us to adverse movements in the prices of such securities. Our networks may be vulnerable to security risks. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. Our application service provider systems maintain and process confidential data on behalf of financial advisors and their clients, some of which is critical to financial advisors' business operations. If our application service provider systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems or facilities are infiltrated or damaged by unauthorized persons, customers could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation and significant business interruption. If such a disruption or failure occurs, we may be exposed to unexpected liability, customers may withdraw their assets, our reputation may be tarnished, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business. Our networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems in the future. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our confidential information or our clients' confidential information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. We may not be able to implement security measures that will protect against all security risks. 16 Table of Contents Failure to maintain technological capabilities, flaws in existing technology, difficulties in upgrading our technology platform, or the introduction of a competitive platform could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our technology platform, particularly our BranchNet system, is one of our competitive strengths. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological advancements required to meet the changing demands of our financial advisors. In particular, the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render our existing systems obsolete or uncompetitive. Any upgrades or expansions may require significant expenditures of funds and may also increase the probability that we will suffer system degradations, outages and failures. There cannot be any assurance that we will have sufficient funds to adequately update and expand our networks, nor can there be any assurance that any upgrade or expansion attempts will be successful and accepted by our current and prospective financial advisors and financial institutions. Our failure to adequately update and expand our systems and networks could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, system degradations, outages or failures could have a material adverse effect on our business. Disruption of our disaster recovery plans and procedures in the event of a catastrophe could adversely affect our business. We have made a significant investment in our infrastructure, and our operations are dependent on our ability to protect the continuity of our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, breach of security, loss of power, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made events. A catastrophic event could have a direct negative impact on us by adversely affecting our employees or facilities, or an indirect impact on us by adversely affecting our clients, the financial markets or the overall economy. While we have implemented business continuity and disaster recovery plans and maintain business interruption insurance, it is impossible to fully anticipate and protect against all potential catastrophes. If our business continuity and disaster recovery plans and procedures were disrupted or unsuccessful in the event of a catastrophe, we could experience a material adverse interruption of our operations. We face intense competition in our industry. Our competitors may have greater financial resources than we have. This may allow them to respond more quickly to new technologies and changes in market demand, to devote greater resources to developing and promoting their services, to create pricing pressures and to make more attractive offers to potential financial advisors. We face competition in attracting and retaining key talent. Our success and future growth depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. There is significant competition for qualified employees in the broker-dealer industry. We may not be able to retain our existing employees or fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover. The loss or unavailability of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, our success depends upon the continued services of our key senior management personnel, including our executive officers and senior managers. The loss of one or more of our key senior management personnel, and the failure to recruit a suitable replacement or replacements, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 17 Table of Contents A loss of our marketing relationships with a variety of leading manufacturers of investment products could harm our business. We operate on an open architecture product platform with no proprietary investment products. To help our financial advisors meet their clients' needs with suitable options, we have relationships with most of the industry leading providers of investment and insurance products. We have sponsorship agreements with some manufacturers of fixed and variable annuities and mutual funds that, subject to the survival of certain terms and conditions, may be terminated upon notice. If we lose our relationships with one or more of these manufacturers, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We rely on outsourced service providers to perform key functions. We rely on service providers to perform certain key technology, processing and support functions. Any significant failures by them could cause us to incur losses and could harm our reputation. If we had to change the service providers we use, we would experience a disruption to our business. Although we believe we have the resources to make such transitions with minimal disruption, we cannot predict the costs and time for such conversions. There cannot be any assurance that the disruption caused by a change in our service providers would not have a material adverse affect on our business. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of the risks associated with acquisitions and investments. We may seek to opportunistically acquire businesses that offer complementary products, services or technologies. These acquisitions are accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in an acquisition of a business. For instance, the acquisition could have a negative effect on our financial and strategic position and reputation. The acquired business could fail to further our strategic goals. We could incur significant costs when integrating an acquired business and may not be successful in doing so. We may have a lack of experience in new markets, products or technologies brought on by the acquisition and we may have an initial dependence on unfamiliar supply or distribution partners. The acquisition may create an impairment of relationships with customers or suppliers of the acquired business or our customers or suppliers. All of these, and other, potential risks may serve as a diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns and any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business. Lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business. A compromise to our liquidity could have a significant negative effect on us. Some potential conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include illiquid or volatile markets, diminished access to debt or capital markets, unforeseen cash or capital requirements, adverse legal settlements or judgments (including, among others, risks associated with auction rate securities). Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and may limit our ability to use debt to fund future capital needs. At December 31, 2008, we had total indebtedness of $1.47 billion. Our level of indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. It could also require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. Finally, our level of indebtedness may limit our flexibility in planning for changes in our business and the industry in which 18 Table of Contents we operate, place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and limit our ability to borrow additional funds. Furthermore, if an event of default were to occur with respect to our credit agreement or other indebtedness, our creditors could, among other things, accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance indebtedness obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful or feasible. Our credit agreement restricts our ability to sell assets. Even if we could consummate those sales, the proceeds that we realize from them may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. In addition, as a result of reduced operating performance or weaker than expected financial condition, rating agencies could downgrade our senior unsecured subordinated notes, which would adversely affect the value of our common shares. Our senior secured credit agreement permits us to incur additional indebtedness. Although our senior secured credit agreement contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute "indebtedness" as defined in our senior secured credit agreement. To the extent new debt or other obligations are added to our currently anticipated debt levels, the substantial indebtedness risks described above would increase. Restrictions under certain of our indebtednesses may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business. Certain of our indebtedness contain customary restrictions on our activities, including covenants that may restrict us from incurring additional indebtedness or issuing disqualified stock or preferred stock; paying dividends on, redeeming or repurchasing our capital stock; making investments or acquisitions; creating liens; selling assets; restricting dividends or other payments to us; guaranteeing indebtedness; engaging in transactions with affiliates; and consolidating, merging or transferring all or substantially all of our assets. We are also required to meet specified financial ratios. These restrictions may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business. Our ability to comply with these restrictive covenants will depend on our future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. If we violate any of these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers, we would be in default under the applicable agreements and payment of the indebtedness could be accelerated. The acceleration of our indebtedness under one agreement may permit acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements that contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay that indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our indebtedness is in default for any reason, our business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the common stock and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions. 19 Table of Contents If the counterparties to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate. We use derivative instruments to hedge several business risks. If our counterparties fail to honor their obligations under the derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. That failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows that could be material. Provisions of our senior secured credit agreement could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of our senior secured credit agreement could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a change of control, all indebtedness under our senior secured credit agreement may be accelerated and become due. The Majority Holders control us and may have conflicts of interest with us. Investment funds affiliated with TPG Partners IV, LP and Hellman & Friedman Capital Partners, LP (collectively, the "Majority Holders"), own approximately 60% of our capital stock, on a fully-diluted basis, as of December 31, 2008. Although certain members of our executive team have the contractual ability to terminate their employment agreements and receive certain payments if the Majority Holders enter into a transaction our executive team does not approve, the Majority Holders have significant influence over corporate transactions. So long as investment funds associated with or designated by the Majority Holders continue to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the Majority Holders will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that might be considered favorable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter, delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include a fixed number of board of directors, limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders and a requirement that vacancies and newly created directorships may only be filled by those that are in office. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 