ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If the Merger with Susquehanna is not completed, the Company will continue to face certain risk factors related to its on-going operations In the event that the proposed Merger with Susquehanna is not completed, the Company will continue its operations as an independent entity and, as such, would continue to face certain risks in its on-going operations, as described below. Even if the Merger is completed as expected in the third calendar quarter of 2011, the Company will face these risks on an independent basis until the time of the Merger. 38 Table of Contents If the Merger is not completed, the Company will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the Merger The Company has incurred substantial expenses in connection with the Merger. The completion of the Merger depends on the satisfaction of specified conditions and the receipt of regulatory approvals and the approval of the Company’s shareholders. The Company cannot guarantee that these conditions will be met. If the Merger is not completed, these expenses could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations on a stand-alone basis. In addition, the market price of the Company’s common stock would likely decline in the event that the Merger is not consummated as the current market price likely reflects an assumption that the Merger will be completed. Our Results of Operations are Significantly Dependent on Economic Conditions and Related Uncertainties Banking is affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of the downturn in the economy accompanying the national recession, among other factors, much of management’s efforts during 2010 was focused on resolving our delinquent and non-performing loans, which increased significantly during 2009 and 2008. Additionally, we have continued to see declines in property values of the collateral securing loans we have made. The negative economic factors being experienced in our market area could continue to have adverse effects upon our operations. We are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties in the Delaware Valley because we derive substantially all of our loans, deposits and other business from the greater Philadelphia region in eastern Pennsylvania and contiguous counties in New Jersey and Delaware. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with a continuing and prolonged decline in the national or local economies. Changes in interest rates also could adversely affect our net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on our operations, as discussed further in the risk factors below. Our Allowance for Losses on Loans May Not Be Adequate to Cover Probable Losses We have established an allowance for loan losses based upon various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. Since we must use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and increases in the allowance may become necessary in the future. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may also need to significantly increase our provision for loan losses, particularly if one or more of our larger loans or credit relationships becomes delinquent. In addition, federal regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. During the year ended December 31, 2010, our provision for loan losses was $977,000 after net charge-offs of $5.8 million during the year. During the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, our provision for loan losses was $18.7 million and $9.8 million, respectively. The provision during 2010 was made upon consideration of, among other factors, management’s ongoing review of certain delinquent and impaired construction and commercial real estate loans as well as upon consideration of the significant provisions taken during 2009 and 2008. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 47.27% of non-performing loans and 0.61% of total loans at December 31, 2010. 39 Table of Contents Our Loans are Concentrated to Borrowers In Our Market Area At December 31, 2010, the preponderance of our total loans were to individuals and/or secured by properties located in our market area of the Delaware Valley region. We have relatively few loans outside of our market. As a result, we have a greater risk of loan defaults and losses in the event of an economic downturn in our market area as adverse economic changes may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayment of their loans. Beginning in 2008 and continuing into 2011, the Delaware Valley region has experienced a rise in unemployment as well as certain declines in real estate values, both residential and commercial. The decline in real estate values has adversely affected the value of certain collateral securing loans in our portfolio. Continuing increases in unemployment or declines in collateral values could be a factor requiring us to make additional provisions to the allowance for loan losses, which would have a negative impact on net income. Additionally, if we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Competition for Core Deposits Is Increasing At December 31, 2010, $432.0 million, or 48.0% of our total deposits were certificates of deposit, also known as time deposits, and of that amount $220.5 million or 51.0% of our total certificates of deposit, were “jumbo” certificates of $100,000 or more. At December 31, 2010, low-cost “core deposits” comprised 52.0% of our average total deposits compared to 46.2% and 38.2% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our success in raising core deposits during 2010 was partially a result of the historically low rates of interest during the year, which caused the return available on time deposits relative to other deposit products, such as core deposits, or other investments to decrease. However, as interest rates rise from their present levels, it is likely that a portion of our customers will transfer significant amounts of their deposits from core deposits to time deposits. In addition, as competition for core deposits continues to increase, it is possible that the percentage of our total deposits that are core deposits will shrink. In today’s economic landscape, banks face competition for core deposits not only from traditional competitors such as other banks and credit unions, but also from investment companies that have reorganized as bank holding companies in the wake of the recent turmoil on Wall Street. If more of our customers invest in time deposits, or if core deposits are lost to competition, the average rate Abington Bank pays on its deposits will be relatively higher. This will have the effect of narrowing our net interest spread and net interest margin relative to the levels at which they might have been had a higher percentage of our deposits been in core deposits. This could adversely affect our profitability. The average rate we paid on our interest-bearing deposits was 1.51% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2.13% and 2.85% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our Portfolio of Loans With a Higher Risk of Loss Has Increased in Recent Years In recent years, we had increased our originations of construction loans and commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate loans. These loans have a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans. The aggregate of construction loans and commercial real estate and multi-family residential loans has increased from $227.4 million or 34.8% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2006 to $279.6 million or 38.2% of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2010 after reaching $339.1 million or 40.9% of the total loan portfolio at December 31, 2009. While we had increased our emphasis on originating construction and commercial real estate and multi-family residential mortgage loans in recent years, we originated a reduced amount of construction loans during 2010, and it is likely that we will again originate a reduced amount of construction loans in 2011. We 40 Table of Contents expect that lending opportunities for construction loans may be limited as a result of increased caution on the part of management in our originations of these loans in light of the economy and the increased level of delinquent and non-performing loans in our construction loan portfolio. Construction loans and commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate loans all generally have a higher risk of loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of a business or the underlying property. At December 31, 2010, $5.7 million or 5.2% of our total outstanding construction loans (which include land acquisition and development loans) were non-performing, and at such date, $2.7 million, or 64.1%, of our allowance for loan losses was allocated to construction loans. At December 31, 2009, the Company had $29.3 million of construction loans that were considered non-performing. The significant reduction in the balance of our non-performing construction loans during 2010 was primarily the result of the charge-off of certain loan balances and the transfer of certain loans to REO, in addition to improvement in a portion of our non-performing construction loans. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, $2.1 million and $4.8 million, respectively, of our total outstanding commercial real estate and multi-family residential loans were considered non-performing. We are Dependent Upon the Services of Our Management Team Our future success and profitability depend upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management. We are especially dependent on a limited number of key management personnel. The loss of our chief executive officer or other senior executive officers, even for a limited period, could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Increased and/or Special Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Assessments Will Hurt Our Earnings The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2009, was approximately $500,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation required all institutions to prepay their assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. 41 Table of Contents We Operate In a Highly Regulated Environment and We May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in Laws and Regulations We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Recently Enacted Regulatory Reform May Have a Material Impact on Our Operations On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that, among other things, imposes new restrictions and an expanded framework of regulatory oversight for financial institutions and their holding companies, including the Bank and the Company. Under the new law, the Company’s and the Bank’s primary regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, will be eliminated and existing federal thrifts will be subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Comptroller of the Currency, which currently supervises and regulates all national banks. Savings and loan holding companies will be regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, which will have the authority to promulgate new regulations governing the Company that will impose additional capital requirements and may result in additional restrictions on investments and other holding company activities. The law also creates a new consumer financial protection bureau that will have the authority to promulgate rules intended to protect consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this independent bureau could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered financial institutions will be reduced. In addition, regulation mandated by the new law could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, loan loss provisioning practices, and compensation practices which may have a material impact on our operations. Because the regulations under the new law have not been promulgated, we cannot determine the full impact on our business and operations at this time. See “Regulation — Recently Enacted Regulatory Reform.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 42 Table of Contents 