Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and IndustryWe depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and productive advisors.We derive a large portion of our revenues from commissions and fees generated by our advisors. Our ability to attract and retain experienced and productive advisors has contributed significantly to our growth and success, and our strategic plan is premised upon continued growth in the number of our advisors. If we fail to attract new advisors or to retain and motivate our current advisors, our business may suffer.The market for experienced and productive advisors is highly competitive, and we devote significant resources to attracting and retaining the most qualified advisors. In attracting and retaining advisors, we compete directly with a variety of financial institutions such as wirehouses, regional broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies and other independent broker-dealers. If we are not successful in retaining highly qualified advisors, we may not be able to recover the expense involved in attracting and training these individuals. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain the advisors needed to achieve our growth objectives.16Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by market fluctuations and other economic factors.Significant downturns and volatility in equity and other financial markets have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.General economic and market factors can affect our commission and fee revenue. For example, a decrease in market levels can:•reduce new investments by both new and existing clients in financial products that are linked to the stock market, such as variable life insurance, variable annuities, mutual funds and managed accounts;•reduce trading activity, thereby affecting our brokerage commissions and our transaction revenue;•reduce the value of advisory and brokerage assets, thereby reducing advisory fee revenue and asset-based fee income and•motivate clients to withdraw funds from their accounts, reducing advisory and brokerage assets, advisory fee revenue and asset-based fee income.In addition, because certain of our expenses are fixed, our ability to reduce them over short periods of time is limited, which could negatively impact our profitability.Significant interest rate changes could affect our profitability and financial condition.Our revenues are exposed to interest rate risk primarily from changes in fees payable to us from banks participating in our cash sweep programs, which are based on prevailing interest rates. In the current low interest rate environment, our revenue from our cash sweep programs has declined, and our revenue may decline further due to the expiration of contracts with favorable pricing terms, less favorable terms in future contracts with participants in our cash sweep programs, decreases in interest rates or clients moving assets out of our cash sweep programs. We may also be limited in the amount we can reduce interest rates payable to clients in our cash sweep programs and still offer a competitive return. A sustained low interest rate environment may have a negative impact upon our ability to negotiate contracts with new banks or renegotiate existing contracts on comparable terms with banks participating in our cash sweep programs.Lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition.Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business. We expend significant resources investing in our business, particularly with respect to our technology and service platforms. In addition, we must maintain certain levels of required capital. As a result, reduced levels of liquidity could have a significant negative effect on us. Some potential conditions that could negatively affect our liquidity include:•illiquid or volatile markets; •diminished access to debt or capital markets, •unforeseen cash or capital requirements or•regulatory penalties or fines, or adverse legal settlements or judgments (including, among others, risks associated with auction rate securities).The capital and credit markets continue to experience varying degrees of volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for businesses similar to ours. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be required to curtail our operations, and our business would suffer.Notwithstanding the self-funding nature of our operations, we may sometimes be required to fund timing differences arising from the delayed receipt of client funds associated with the settlement of client transactions in securities markets. These timing differences are funded either with internally generated cash flow or, if needed, with 17funds drawn under our revolving credit facility, and/or uncommitted lines of credit at our broker-dealer subsidiary LPL Financial.In the event current resources are insufficient to satisfy our needs, we may need to rely on financing sources such as bank debt. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as•market conditions; •the general availability of credit; •the volume of trading activities; •the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry;•our credit ratings and credit capacity and •the possibility that our lenders could develop a negative perception of our long-or short-term financial prospects if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating organizations take negative actions against us.Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to satisfy statutory capital requirements, generate commission, fee and other market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of capital than we would otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility.If the counterparties to the derivative instruments we may use to hedge our interest rate risk default, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate.We may, from time to time, use derivative instruments to hedge our interest rate risk. If our counterparties fail to honor their obligations under such derivative instruments, we could be subject to the risk of loss and our hedges of the interest rate risk will be ineffective. That failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows that could be material. A loss of our marketing relationships with manufacturers of financial products could harm our relationship with our advisors and, in turn, their clients.We operate on an open-architecture product platform offering no proprietary financial products. To help our advisors meet their clients’ needs with suitable investment options, we have relationships with most of the industry-leading providers of financial and insurance products. We have sponsorship agreements with some manufacturers of fixed and variable annuities and mutual funds that, subject to the survival of certain terms and conditions, may be terminated by the manufacturer upon notice. If we lose our relationships with one or more of these manufacturers, our ability to serve our advisors and, in turn, their clients, and our business may be materially adversely affected. As an example, recently certain variable annuity product sponsors have ceased offering and issuing new variable annuity contracts. If this trend continues, we could experience a loss in the revenue currently generated from the sale of such products. In addition, certain features of such contracts have been eliminated by variable annuity product sponsors. If this trend continues, the attractiveness of these products would be reduced, potentially reducing the revenue we currently generate from the sale of such products18Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of the risks associated with acquisitions and investments. We have made acquisitions and investments in the past and may pursue further acquisitions and investments in the future. These transactions are accompanied by risks. For instance, an acquisition could have a negative effect on our financial and strategic position and reputation or the acquired business could fail to further our strategic goals. Moreover, we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses into ours, and therefore we may not be able to realize the intended benefits from an acquisition. We may have a lack of experience in new markets, products or technologies brought on by the acquisition and we may have an initial dependence on unfamiliar supply or distribution partners. An acquisition may create an impairment of relationships with customers or suppliers of the acquired business or our advisors or suppliers. For example, recently we acquired Fortigent, and we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in integrating the high net worth business into our existing offerings. All of these and other potential risks may serve as a diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns, and any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Regulatory EnvironmentRegulatory developments and our failure to comply with regulations could adversely affect our business by increasing our costs and exposure to litigation, affecting our reputation and making our business less profitable.Our business is subject to extensive U.S. regulation and supervision, including securities and investment advisory services. The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. Our broker-dealer subsidiary, LPL Financial, is:•registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC, each of the 50 states, and the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands;•registered as an investment advisor with the SEC; •a member of FINRA; •regulated by the CFTC with respect to the futures and commodities trading activities it conducts as an introducing broker and•a member of the NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”) and the Chicago Stock Exchange. Much of the regulation of broker-dealers has been delegated to self-regulatory organizations (“SROs”). The primary regulators of LPL Financial are FINRA, and for municipal securities, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (“MSRB”). The CFTC has designated the National Futures Association ("NFA") as LPL Financial’s primary regulator for futures and commodities trading activities.The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, OCC, various securities and futures exchanges and other U.S. governmental or regulatory authorities continuously review legislative and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations. There can also be no assurance that other federal or state agencies will not attempt to further regulate our business. These legislative and regulatory initiatives may affect the way in which we conduct our business and may make our business model less profitable.Our ability to conduct business in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate depends on our compliance with the laws, rules and regulations promulgated by federal regulatory bodies and the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance, audit and risk management personnel. While we have adopted policies and procedures reasonably designed to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, these systems and procedures may not be fully effective, and there can be no assurance that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with respect to our past or future compliance with applicable regulations.Our profitability could also be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial 19communities generally and, in particular, our advisors’ and their clients, including changes to the interpretation or enforcement of laws governing taxation (including the classification of independent contractor status of our advisors), electronic commerce, privacy and data protection. For instance, failure to comply with new rules and regulations, including in particular, rules and regulations that may arise pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, could subject us to regulatory actions or litigation and it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that may impact our business include, but are not limited to, the potential implementation of a more stringent fiduciary standard for broker-dealers and the potential establishment of a new self-regulatory organization for investment advisors. Compliance with these provisions is likely to result in increased costs. Moreover, to the extent the Dodd-Frank Act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of financial institutions with whom we do business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us. The ultimate impact that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on us, the financial industry and the economy cannot be known until all such applicable and regulations called for under the Dodd-Frank Act have been finalized and implemented.In addition to Dodd-Frank Act rule promulgation, other proposals are currently under consideration by federal banking regulators that may have an impact upon our profitability. Global regulators are engaged in ongoing efforts to build upon the Basel capital accords, which set new capital and liquidity standards for global banking institutions (“Basel III”). Basel III is designed to strengthen bank capital requirements and introduce new regulatory requirements on bank liquidity. U.S. regulators are expected to issue a proposal for implementation of Basel III later this year. This proposal could negatively impact the attractiveness of cash deposits to banks who participate in our cash sweep programs, making it more difficult for us to renew existing contracts and negotiate new arrangements. In addition, new rules and regulations could result in limitations on the lines of business we conduct, modifications to our business practices, increased capital requirements or additional costs. For example, the U.S. Department of Labor has stated that it plans to re-propose a rule that, if re-proposed and adopted as previously proposed, would broaden the circumstances under which we may be considered a “fiduciary” under Section 3(21) of ERISA and would impact the compensation we receive for retirement accounts.We are subject to various regulatory requirements, which, if not complied with, could result in the restriction of the ongoing conduct or growth, or even liquidation of, parts of our business.The business activities that we may conduct are limited by various regulatory agencies. Our membership agreement with FINRA may be amended by application to include additional business activities. This application process is time-consuming and may not be successful. As a result, we may be prevented from entering new potentially profitable businesses in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, as a member of FINRA, we are subject to certain regulations regarding changes in control of our ownership. Rule 1017 of the National Association of Securities Dealers generally provides, among other things, that FINRA approval must be obtained in connection with any transaction resulting in a change in our equity ownership that results in one person or entity directly or indirectly owning or controlling 25% or more of our equity capital. Similarly, the OCC imposes advance approval requirements for a change of control, and control is presumed to exist if a person acquires 10% or more of our common stock. These regulatory approval processes can result in delay, increased costs and/or impose additional transaction terms in connection with a proposed change of control, such as capital contributions to the regulated entity. As a result of these regulations, our future efforts to sell shares or raise additional capital may be delayed or prohibited.In addition, the SEC, FINRA, CFTC, OCC and NFA have extensive rules and regulations with respect to capital requirements. As a registered broker-dealer, LPL Financial is subject to Rule 15c3-1 (“Uniform Net Capital Rule”) under the Exchange Act, and related SRO requirements. The CFTC and NFA also impose net capital requirements. The Uniform Net Capital Rule specifies minimum capital requirements that are intended to ensure the general soundness and liquidity of broker-dealers. Because our holding companies are not registered broker-dealers, they are not subject to the Uniform Net Capital Rule. However, the ability of our holding companies to withdraw capital from our broker-dealer subsidiary could be restricted, which in turn could limit our ability to repay debt, redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock or pay dividends. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain our present levels of business.20Failure to comply with ERISA regulations could result in penalties against us.We are subject to ERISA and Sections 4975(c)(1)(A), (B), (C) and (D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”), and to regulations promulgated thereunder, insofar as we act as a “fiduciary” under ERISA with respect to benefit plan clients or otherwise deal with benefit plan clients. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit specified transactions involving ERISA plan clients (including, without limitation, employee benefit plans (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA), individual retirement accounts and Keogh plans) and impose monetary penalties for violations of these prohibitions. Our failure to comply with these requirements could result in significant penalties against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business (or, in a worst case, severely limit the extent to which we could act as fiduciaries for any plans under ERISA).Risks Related to Our CompetitionWe operate in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause us to lose advisors and their assets, thereby reducing our revenues and net income.We are subject to competition in all aspects of our business, including competition for our advisors and their clients, from:•asset management firms; •commercial banks and thrift institutions; •insurance companies; •other clearing/custodial technology companies and •brokerage and investment banking firms. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of services, including financial products, across more markets. Some operate in a different regulatory environment than we do, which may give them certain competitive advantages in the services they offer. For example, certain of our competitors only provide clearing services and consequently would not have any supervision or oversight liability relating to actions of their financial advisors. We believe that competition within our industry will intensify as a result of consolidation and acquisition activity and because new competitors face few barriers to entry.If we fail to continue to attract highly qualified advisors or advisors licensed with us leave us to pursue other opportunities, or if current or potential clients of our advisors decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, commission and fee revenues and net income. If we are required to increase our payout of commissions and fees to our advisors in order to remain competitive, our net income could be significantly reduced.Poor service or performance of the financial products that we offer or competitive pressures on pricing of such services or products may cause clients of our advisors to withdraw their assets on short notice.Clients of our advisors control their assets under management with us. Poor service or performance of the financial products that we offer or competitive pressures on pricing of such services or products may result in the loss of accounts. In addition, we must monitor the pricing of our services and financial products in relation to competitors and periodically may need to adjust commission and fee rates, interest rates on deposits and margin loans and other fee structures to remain competitive. Competition from other financial services firms, such as reduced commissions to attract clients or trading volume or higher deposit rates to attract client cash balances, could adversely impact our business. The decrease in revenue that could result from such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business.We face competition in attracting and retaining key talent.Our success and future growth depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. There is significant competition for qualified employees in the broker-dealer industry. We may not be able to retain our 21existing employees or fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover. The loss or unavailability of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business.Moreover, our success depends upon the continued services of our key senior management personnel, including our executive officers and senior managers. The loss of one or more of our key senior management personnel, and the failure to recruit a suitable replacement or replacements, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain members of our executive team have the contractual ability to terminate their employment within the thirty day period immediately following the twelve month anniversary of a change in control and receive severance payments.Risks Related to Our DebtOur indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and may limit our ability to use debt to fund future capital needs.At December 31, 2012, we had total indebtedness of $1.3 billion. Our level of indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. It could also require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. In addition, our level of indebtedness may limit our flexibility in planning for changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, and limit our ability to borrow additional funds.Our senior secured credit agreement entered into on March 29, 2012 requires quarterly repayments of our term loans. These payments equal approximately $10.7 million per quarter through March 31, 2014, $19.9 million per quarter through December 31, 2016 and $1.5 million per quarter thereafter through December 31, 2018. In addition, we have a revolving credit facility under our senior secured credit agreement with an available balance of $250.0 million. This facility matures on March 29, 2017, and we will be obligated to repay any outstanding balance under this facility at that time. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance indebtedness obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control.We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. In addition, as discussed above, we are limited in the amount of capital that we can draw from our broker-dealer subsidiary. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful or feasible. Our senior secured credit agreement restricts our ability to sell assets. Even if we could consummate those sales, the proceeds that we realize from them may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Furthermore, if an event of default were to occur with respect to our senior secured credit agreement or other future indebtedness, our creditors could, among other things, accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness.Our senior secured credit agreement permits us to incur additional indebtedness. Although our senior secured credit agreement contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute “indebtedness” as defined in our senior secured credit agreement. To the extent new debt or other obligations are added to our currently anticipated debt levels, the substantial indebtedness risks described above would increase.A credit rating downgrade would not impact the terms of our repayment obligations under our senior secured credit agreement. However, any such downgrade would negatively impact our ability to obtain comparable rates and terms on any future refinancing of our debt and could restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness.22Restrictions under our senior secured credit agreement may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business.Our senior secured credit agreement contains customary restrictions on our activities, including covenants that may restrict us from:•incurring additional indebtedness or issuing disqualified stock or preferred stock;•paying dividends on, redeeming or repurchasing our capital stock;•making investments or acquisitions; •creating liens; •selling assets; •receiving dividends or other payments to us;•guaranteeing indebtedness; •engaging in transactions with affiliates and •consolidating, merging or transferring all or substantially all of our assets.We are also required to meet specified leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio tests. These restrictions may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business. Our ability to comply with these restrictive covenants will depend on our future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. If we violate any of these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers, we would be in default under our senior secured credit agreement and payment of the indebtedness could be accelerated. The acceleration of our indebtedness under our senior secured credit agreement may permit acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements that contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay that indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our indebtedness is in default for any reason, our business could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of our common stock and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions.Provisions of our senior secured credit agreement could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party.Certain provisions of our senior secured credit agreement could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us, and any of our future debt agreements may contain similar provisions. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a change of control, all indebtedness under our senior secured credit agreement may be accelerated and become due and payable. A potential acquirer may not have sufficient financial resources to purchase our outstanding indebtedness in connection with a change of control.Risks Related to Our TechnologyWe rely on technology in our business, and technology and execution failures could subject us to losses, litigation and regulatory actions.Our business relies extensively on electronic data processing and communications systems. In addition to better serving our advisors and their clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables firms like ours to reduce costs and support our regulatory compliance and reporting functions. Our continued success will depend, in part, upon:•our ability to successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our systems;•our ability to address the needs of our advisors and their clients by using technology to provide products and 23services that satisfy their demands;•our ability to use technology effectively to support our regulatory compliance and reporting functions and•our ability to retain skilled information technology employees.Extraordinary trading volumes, beyond reasonably foreseeable spikes in volumes, could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably slow speed or even fail. Failure of our systems, which could result from these or other events beyond our control, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, unanticipated disruptions in service to clients, liability to our advisors' clients, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation.Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, human error, computer viruses, denial-of-service attacks, or other malicious code and other events that could impact the security, reliability, and availability of our systems. If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our own, our advisors’ or their clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed, stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our own, our advisors’ or their clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation, regulatory sanctions and financial losses that are either not insured or are not fully covered through any insurance we maintain.The securities settlement process exposes us to risks that may expose our advisors and us to adverse movements in price.LPL Financial, one of our subsidiaries, provides clearing services and trade processing for our advisors and their clients and certain financial institutions. Broker-dealers that clear their own trades are subject to substantially more regulatory requirements than brokers that outsource these functions to third-party providers. Errors in performing clearing functions, including clerical, technological and other errors related to the handling of funds and securities held by us on behalf of our advisors' clients, could lead to censures, fines or other sanctions imposed by applicable regulatory authorities as well as losses and liability in related lawsuits and proceedings brought by our advisors’ clients and others. Any unsettled securities transactions or wrongly executed transactions may expose our advisors and us to adverse movements in the prices of such securities.Our networks may be vulnerable to security risks.The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. As part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about clients of our advisors as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. Our application service provider systems maintain and process confidential data on behalf of advisors and their clients, some of which is critical to our advisors’ business operations. If our application service provider systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems or facilities are infiltrated or damaged by unauthorized persons, our advisors could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation and significant business interruption. In addition, vulnerabilities of our external service providers could pose security risks to client information. If any such disruption or failure occurs, we may be exposed to unexpected liability, advisors' clients may withdraw their assets, our reputation may be tarnished and there could be a material adverse effect on our business.Our networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems in the future. We rely on our advisors and employees to comply with our policies and procedures to safeguard confidential data. The failure of our advisors and employees to comply with such policies and procedures could result in the loss or wrongful use of their clients’ confidential information or other sensitive information. In addition, even if we and our advisors comply with our policies and procedures, persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our confidential information or clients’ confidential information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Such loss or use could, among other things:•seriously damage our reputation; 24•allow competitors access to our proprietary business information;•subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data;•result in the termination of relationships with our advisors;•subject us to regulatory sanctions or burdens, based on state law or the authority of the SEC and FINRA to enforce regulations regarding business continuity planning; •result in inaccurate financial data reporting and•require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach.Failure to maintain technological capabilities, flaws in existing technology, difficulties in upgrading our technology platform or the introduction of a competitive platform could have a material adverse effect on our business.We depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary technology to support our business functions, including among others:•securities trading and custody; •portfolio management; •customer service; •accounting and internal financial processes and controls and•regulatory compliance and reporting. In addition, our continued success depends on our ability to effectively adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry and regulatory demands. We might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive technology. For example, we believe that our technology platform, particularly our BranchNet system, is one of our competitive strengths, and our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological advancements required to meet the changing demands of our advisors. The emergence of new industry standards and practices could render our existing systems obsolete or uncompetitive. Any upgrades or expansions may require significant expenditures of funds and may also cause us to suffer system degradations, outages and failures. There cannot be any assurance that we will have sufficient funds to adequately update and expand our networks, nor can there be any assurance that any upgrade or expansion attempts will be successful and accepted by our current and prospective advisors. If our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of advisors and could harm our reputation. A technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and to liability to our advisors and their clients. There cannot be any assurance that another company will not design a similar platform that affects our competitive advantage.Inadequacy or disruption of our disaster recovery plans and procedures in the event of a catastrophe could adversely affect our business.We have made a significant investment in our infrastructure, and our operations are dependent on our ability to protect the continuity of our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, breach of security, loss of power, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made events. A catastrophic event could have a direct negative impact on us by adversely affecting our advisors, employees or facilities, or an indirect impact on us by adversely affecting the financial markets or the overall economy. While we have implemented business continuity and disaster recovery plans and maintain business interruption insurance, it is impossible to fully anticipate and protect against all potential catastrophes. If our business continuity and disaster recovery plans and procedures were disrupted or unsuccessful in the event of a catastrophe, we could experience a material adverse interruption of our operations.25We rely on outsourced service providers to perform key functions.We rely on outsourced service providers to perform certain key technology, processing and support functions. For example, we have an agreement with Thomson Reuters BETA Systems, a division of Thomson Reuters, under which they provide us operational support, including data processing services for securities transactions and back office processing support. Our use of third party service providers may decrease our ability to control operating risks and information technology systems risks. Any significant failures by our service providers could cause us to incur losses and could harm our reputation. If we had to change these service providers, we would experience a disruption to our business. Although we believe we have the resources to make such transitions with minimal disruption, we cannot predict the costs and time for such conversions. We cannot provide any assurance that the disruption caused by a change in our service providers would not have a material adverse affect on our business. We expect to transition additional business processes to third party service providers in connection with the Service Value Commitment, which will increase our reliance on outsourced providers and the related risks described above.Risks Related to Our Business GenerallyAny damage to our reputation could harm our business and lead to a loss of revenues and net income.We have spent many years developing our reputation for integrity and superior client service, which is built upon our four pillars of support for our advisors: enabling technology, comprehensive clearing and compliance services, practice management programs and training, and independent research. Our ability to attract and retain advisors and employees is highly dependent upon external perceptions of our level of service, business practices and financial condition. Damage to our reputation could cause significant harm to our business and prospects and may arise from numerous sources, including:•litigation or regulatory actions; •failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality;•compliance failures and •unethical behavior and the misconduct of employees, advisors or counterparties.Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage our reputation among existing and potential advisors and employees. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. These occurrences could lead to loss of revenue and net income.Our business is subject to risks related to litigation, arbitration actions and governmental and SRO investigations.We are subject to legal proceedings arising out of our business operations, including lawsuits, arbitration claims, regulatory, governmental or SRO subpoenas, investigations and actions and other claims. Many of our legal claims are client initiated and involve the purchase or sale of investment securities, but other claims may be asserted by regulatory authorities. For example, we have been engaged in discussions with one of our regulators regarding a supervisory matter. As a result of these discussions, we have recorded an estimate of a probable loss in the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2012. In our investment advisory programs, we have fiduciary obligations that require us and our advisors to act in the best interests of our advisors' clients. We may face liabilities for actual or alleged breaches of legal duties to our advisors' clients, in respect of issues related to the suitability of the financial products we make available in our open architecture product platform or the investment advice of our advisors based on their clients' investment objectives (including, for example, auction rate securities, alternative investments or exchange traded funds). In addition, we, along with other industry participants, are subject to risks related to litigation and settlements arising from market events such as the failures in the auction rate securities market. We may also become subject to claims, allegations and legal proceedings that we infringe or misappropriate intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others. In addition, we may be subject to legal proceedings related to employment matters, including wage and hour, discrimination or harassment claims. The outcome of any such actions, including regulatory proceedings, 26cannot be predicted, and a negative outcome in such a matter could result in substantial legal liability, regulatory fines or monetary penalties, censure, loss of intellectual property rights and injunctive or other equitable relief against us. Further, such outcome may cause us significant reputational harm and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risks.We have adopted policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our operational risk. These policies and procedures, however, may not be fully effective. Some of our risk evaluation methods depend upon information provided by others and public information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are otherwise accessible by us. In some cases, however, that information may not be accurate, complete or up-to-date. Also, because our advisors work in small, decentralized offices, additional risk management challenges may exist. If our policies and procedures are not fully effective or we are not always successful in capturing all risks to which we are or may be exposed, we may suffer harm to our reputation or be subject to litigation or regulatory actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.Misconduct and errors by our employees and our advisors, who operate in a decentralized environment, could harm our business.Misconduct and errors by our employees and our advisors could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm. We cannot always prevent misconduct and errors by our employees and our advisors, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective in all cases. Prevention and detection among our advisors, who are not our direct employees and some of whom tend to be located in small, decentralized offices, present additional challenges. There cannot be any assurance that misconduct and errors by our employees and advisors will not lead to a material adverse effect on our business.Our insurance coverage may be inadequate or expensive.We are subject to claims in the ordinary course of business. These claims may involve substantial amounts of money and involve significant defense costs. It is not always possible to prevent or detect activities giving rise to claims, and the precautions we take may not be effective in all cases.We maintain voluntary and required insurance coverage, including, among others, general liability, property, director and officer, excess-SIPC, business interruption, errors and omissions, excess entity errors and omissions and fidelity bond insurance. Recently, premium and deductible costs associated with certain insurance coverages have increased, coverage terms have become more restrictive and the number of insurers has decreased. While we endeavor to purchase coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of our risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. Our business may be negatively affected if in the future our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. In addition, insurance claims may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business.Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could make some of the products distributed by our advisors less attractive to clients.Some of the financial products distributed by our advisors, such as variable annuities, enjoy favorable treatment under current U.S. federal income tax law. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law, in particular with respect to variable annuity products or with respect to tax rates on capital gains or dividends, could make some of these products less attractive to clients and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.27We may not realize the benefits we expect from our Service Value Commitment.On February 5, 2013, we committed to an expansion of our Service Value Commitment, an ongoing effort to position us for sustainable long-term growth by improving the service experience of our financial advisors and delivering efficiencies in our operating model. In connection with our Service Value Commitment, we expected to reposition our labor force, allowing us to focus on our core strengths, and transition select non-advisor-facing functions to a leading global services provider. Our ability to realize the service improvements and efficiencies expected to result from the Service Value Commitment is subject to many risks, and no assurances can be given that we will achieve the expected results. We may be unable to execute our plans related to the Service Value Commitment, including plans to transform information technology systems and transition business processes to third party service providers, or achieve our projected savings. Our ability to effectively implement our plans within expected costs and realize the expected benefits will depend upon a number of factors, including the finalization of our transition plans; our success in negotiating and developing commercial arrangements with third party service providers that will enable us to realize the service improvements and efficiencies expected to result from the Service Value Commitment; the performance of third party service providers to which we transition business processes; our ability to control operating risks, information technology systems risks and sourcing risks; our success in reinvesting the savings arising from labor repositioning in our service and technology enhancements; time required to complete planned actions; absence of material issues associated with workforce reductions; avoidance of unexpected disruptions in service; and the retention of key employees involved in implementing the initiative. In addition, we may have to incur higher costs than currently anticipated to implement our Service Value Commitment, and the near-term goals of this strategic initiative might not be completed on the current timetable. Finally, our business is dynamic, and we may elect to incur incremental expenses from time to time to grow and better support our business that could partially offset the benefits of this strategic initiative.Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common StockThe Sponsors have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder approval and may have interests that differ from those of our other stockholders.As of December 31, 2012, investment funds affiliated with the Sponsors owned approximately 43.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. So long as investment funds associated with or designated by the Sponsors continue to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, the Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly influence our decisions, regardless of whether or not other stockholders believe that the transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, the Sponsors and their affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time in the future, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business. To the extent the Sponsors invest in such other businesses, the Sponsors may have differing interests than our other stockholders. The Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us.The price of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate substantially, which could result in substantial losses for our investors.The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to the following factors (in addition to the other risk factors described in this section):•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations;•variance in our financial performance from the expectations of equity research analysts;•conditions and trends in the markets we serve; •announcements of significant new services or products by us or our competitors;28•additions or changes to key personnel; •the commencement or outcome of litigation or regulatory procedures;•changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors;•the trading volume of our common stock; •future sale of our equity securities; •changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets;•legislation or regulatory policies, practices or actions and•general economic conditions. In addition, the stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock irrespective of our operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against the affected company. This type of litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources.We are a holding company and rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations.We have no direct operations and derive all of our cash flow from our subsidiaries. Because we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments or distributions to meet any existing or future debt service and other obligations. The deterioration of the earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us. In addition, FINRA regulations restrict dividends in excess of 10% of a member firm’s excess net capital without FINRA’s prior approval. Compliance with this regulation may impede our ability to receive dividends from our broker-dealer subsidiary.Our future ability to pay regular dividends to holders of our common stock is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. On February 5, 2013, our board of directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.135 per share on our outstanding common stock, payable on March 4, 2013. The declaration and payment of any future quarterly cash dividend will be subject to the board of directors' continuing determination that the declaration of future dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders and are in compliance with applicable law. This determination will depend upon a number of factors that the board of directors deems relevant, including future earnings, the success of our business activities, capital requirements, the general financial condition and future prospects of our business and general business conditions.The future payment of dividends will also depend on our ability to generate earnings and cash flows. If we are unable to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, including compliance with limitations under our senior secured credit agreement. Our broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to requirements of the SEC, FINRA, the CFTC and other regulators relating to liquidity, capital standards and the use of client funds and securities, which may limit funds available for the payment of dividends to us. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could prevent or delay a change in control of our company.Our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain certain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable, including the 29following, some of which may only become effective when the Sponsors collectively own less than 40% of our outstanding shares of common stock:•the division of our board of directors into three classes and the election of each class for three-year terms;•the sole ability of the board of directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors;•advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations;•limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings and to take action by written consent;•the approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote generally on the making, alteration, amendment or repeal of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, will be required to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws, or amend or repeal certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation;•the required approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of the directors to remove directors and, following the classification of the board of directors, removal only for cause and•the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock, without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a rights plan, or a poison pill, that would work to dilute the stock ownership or a potential hostile acquirer, likely preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors.The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in the acquisition.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.