ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and productive IFAs and Financial Institutions. Our ability to attract and retain experienced and productive IFAs and Financial Institutions has contributed significantly to our growth and success, and our strategic plan is premised upon continued growth in the number of our IFAs. If we fail to attract new IFAs and Financial Institutions or to retain and motivate our current IFAs and Financial Institutions, our business, results of operations or financial condition may suffer. We devote considerable efforts to recruiting experienced and productive FAs. The market for experienced and productive FAs is highly competitive. In attracting FAs, we compete directly with a variety of financial institutions such as wirehouses, regional broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies and other independent broker-dealers. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit the FAs needed to achieve our growth objectives. We also devote considerable resources to encouraging our IFAs and Financial Institutions to remain with us. Our contracts with our IFAs are mutually terminable upon 30 days' notice. As a result, IFAs licensed with us may in the future leave us at any time to pursue other opportunities. Although our level of payout is designed to discourage attrition, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining such IFAs, the loss of whom, and the loss of whose clients, will also result in a loss of income to us. Further, as competition for experienced and productive FAs increases, there may be competitive pressure to increase the share of commissions and advisory fees we pay to our IFAs and Financial Institutions. Any such increase could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We depend on FAs' ability to grow their businesses. Our financial results are influenced by the growth of our FAs' and related Financial Institutions' businesses. The growth of their businesses has been affected by a variety of factors that are both external and internal to the financial advisory industry, including general economic conditions. If FAs are not able to grow their businesses, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition may suffer. The performance of our business is correlated with the economy and financial markets, and a slowdown or downturn in the economy or financial markets could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our financial results are influenced by the willingness or ability of clients to maintain or increase their investment activities in the financial products offered by us. As a result, general economic and market factors can affect our commission and fee revenue. For example, a decrease in stock prices can: •reduce new investments by both new and existing clients in financial products that are linked to the stock market, such as variable life insurance, variable annuities, mutual funds and managed accounts; •reduce trading activity, thereby affecting our brokerage commissions; •reduce the value of assets under management, thereby reducing asset-based fee income; and •motivate clients to withdraw funds from their accounts, reducing assets under management, advisory fee revenue, and asset-based fee income. 21 In addition, a decline in interest rates could have an adverse effect upon our ICA Program and our business in general. General economic and market factors may also slow the rate of growth, or lead to a decrease in the size, of the mass affluent market. Because clients can withdraw their assets on short notice, poor performance of the investment products and services may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Clients can reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any of a number of reasons, including investment performance and personal client liquidity needs. Poor performance of the investment products and services that we offer relative to the performance of other products available in the market or the performance of other investment management firms tends to result in the loss of accounts. The decrease in revenue that could result from such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our business is competitive and, if we are unable to compete effectively, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition may be adversely affected. We compete directly with a variety of financial institutions to attract and retain experienced and productive FAs. These financial institutions include wirehouses, regional broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies, and other independent broker-dealers. Recent consolidation in the financial services industry has created stronger competitors, some of whom have greater financial resources. This may allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new technologies and changes in market demand, to devote greater resources to developing and promoting their services, and to make more attractive offers to potential FAs. In addition, the passage of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act in 1999 reduced barriers to large institutions providing a wide range of financial services products and services. See "Business—Competition" for a listing of some of our more prominent competitors. We may experience pricing pressures in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain increased market share by reducing fees. Some competitors may offer services to clients at lower prices than we are offering, which may force us to reduce our prices or to lose market share and revenue. If we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business is highly regulated and the failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in penalties, temporary or permanent prohibitions on our activities and reputational harm, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our business is subject to extensive United States regulation and supervision, including regarding securities and investment advisory services. The Broker-Dealer Entities are registered as broker-dealers and investment advisers with the SEC, are members of FINRA, do business as broker-dealers and investment advisers in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations. IAG and Associated Planners Advisory, Inc. are registered as investment advisers with the SEC, are members of FINRA, do business as investment advisers in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations. LPL is a member of the NSCC and the DTC. LPL is also registered as a FCM and a commodity pool operator with the CFTC. The SEC, FINRA, CFTC, various securities and futures exchanges and other U.S. governmental or regulatory authorities continuously review legislative and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations. There can also be no assurance that existing regulations will not change or that federal, state or foreign agencies will not attempt to further regulate our business. These legislative 22 and regulatory initiatives may affect the way in which we conduct our business and may make our business less profitable. Recently, federal, state and other regulatory authorities have focused on, and continue to devote substantial attention to, the mutual fund and variable annuity industries. It is difficult at this time to predict whether changes resulting from new laws and regulations will affect these industries or our business and, if so, to what degree. For example, there have recently been suggestions from regulatory agencies and other industry participants that mutual fund fees paid under Rule 12b-1 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, in exchange for distributing certain mutual funds should be reconsidered and potentially reduced or eliminated. Similarly, there have been recent suggestions from regulatory agencies that fees derived from marketing arrangements between product manufacturers and distributors should be reduced or restructured. In addition, changes in legislation and regulatory law may reduce the amount of commission or compensation permitted to be derived from investment products offered by independent broker-dealers. An industry-wide reduction or restructuring of Rule 12b-1 fees, amounts we receive under marketing arrangements or amounts permitted to be received from investment products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our ability to conduct business in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate depends on our compliance with the laws, rules and regulations promulgated by federal regulatory bodies and the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance, audit and risk management personnel. While we have adopted policies and procedures reasonably designed to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, these systems and procedures may not be fully effective, and there can be no assurance that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with respect to our past or future compliance with applicable regulations. We face the risk of intervention by regulatory authorities, including extensive examination and surveillance activity and adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations. In the case of actual or alleged non-compliance with regulations, we could be subject to investigations and administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and rules could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We also are subject to various laws, regulations, and rules setting forth requirements regarding privacy and data protection. If our policies, procedures and systems are found to not comply with these requirements, we could be subject to regulatory actions or litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Recently, class action complaints have been filed against other broker-dealers alleging various causes of action arising out of their bank deposit sweep programs with their affiliated banks. In these complaints, allegations were, among others, that the disclosures by the broker and dealers were false and misleading and that the firms concealed material information from customers. Although we believe our ICA Program differs from the named broker-dealers' programs, there has been significant scrutiny under these programs. If we are not able to offer our ICA Program, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We are subject to various regulatory capital requirements, which, if not complied with, could result in the restriction of the ongoing conduct, growth, or even liquidation of parts of our business. The SEC, FINRA and CFTC have extensive rules and regulations with respect to capital requirements. The net capital rule under the Exchange Act requires that at least a minimum part of a broker-dealer's assets be maintained in a relatively liquid form. For example, as a guaranteed introducing broker for commodities and futures that is also a registered broker-dealer, CFTC rules require us to comply with higher net capital requirements of the net capital rule. Our ability to withdraw capital from LPL could be restricted, which in turn could limit our ability to fund operations, 23 repay debt and redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain our present levels of business. Our business is subject to risks related to litigation and arbitration actions. From time to time, we are subject to legal proceedings arising out of our business operations, including lawsuits, arbitration claims, regulatory and or governmental subpoenas, investigations and actions, and other claims. Many of our legal claims are client initiated and involve the purchase or sale of investment securities. In our investment advisory programs, we have fiduciary obligations that require us and our IFAs to act in the best interests of our IFAs' clients. We may face liabilities for actual or claimed breaches of these fiduciary duties. The outcome of these actions cannot be predicted, and although we believe we have adequate insurance coverage for these matters (see "—Our errors and omissions insurance coverage may be inadequate or expensive"), no assurance can be given that such legal proceedings would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our errors and omissions insurance coverage may be inadequate or expensive. We are subject to claims in the ordinary course of business resulting from alleged and actual errors and omissions in effecting securities transactions, rendering investment advice and making insurance sales. These activities may involve substantial amounts of money. Since errors and omissions claims against us may allege our liability for all or part of the amounts in question, claimants may seek large damage awards. These claims can involve significant defense costs. Errors and omissions could include, for example, failure, whether negligently or intentionally, to effect securities transactions on behalf of our IFAs or their clients, failure to disclose material information relating to the investment, breach of fiduciary duty and unsuitable investment recommendations. It is not always possible to prevent or detect activities giving rise to claims, and the precautions we take may not be effective in all cases. We have mandatory errors and omissions insurance coverage to protect us and our IFAs against the risk of liability resulting from alleged and actual errors and omissions. Recently, premium and deductible costs associated with this insurance have increased, coverage terms have become more restrictive and the number of insurers in this market has decreased. In 2006, LPL increased its deductible from $45,000 per claim to $250,000 per claim. This means that we bear increased economic risk for any claims. While we endeavor to purchase coverage that is appropriate to our assessment of our risk, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages. Our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition may be negatively affected if in the future our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable. In addition, errors and omissions claims may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. Misconduct and errors by our employees and our IFAs could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Misconduct and errors by our employees and our IFAs could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational or financial harm. Misconduct and errors could include: •errors in executing securities transactions; •hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities resulting in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses; •improperly using or disclosing confidential information; •recommending securities that are not suitable; 24 •engaging in fraudulent or otherwise improper activity; •engaging in unauthorized or excessive trading; or •otherwise not complying with laws or our control procedures. We cannot always deter misconduct and errors by our employees and our FAs, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Prevention and detection among our FAs, who are not employees of LPL and tend to be located in small, decentralized offices, present additional challenges. There cannot be any assurance that misconduct and errors by our employees and FAs will not lead to a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. The securities settlement process exposes us to risks that may impact our liquidity and profitability. LPL provides clearing services and trade processing for our IFAs and their clients and certain financial institutions. Broker-dealers that clear their own trades are subject to substantially more regulatory requirements than brokers that outsource these functions to third-party providers. Errors in performing clearing functions, including clerical, technological and other errors related to the handling of funds and securities held by us on behalf of clients, could lead to censures, fines or other sanctions imposed by applicable regulatory authorities as well as losses and liability in related lawsuits and proceedings brought by our IFAs' clients and others. Any unsettled securities transactions or wrongly executed transactions may expose our IFAs and us to adverse movements in the prices of such securities. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of the risks associated with acquisitions and investments. As part of our business strategy, we seek to acquire businesses that offer complementary products, services or technologies. These acquisitions are accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in an acquisition of a business, which may include, among other things: •the effect of the acquisition on our financial and strategic position and reputation; •the failure of an acquired business to further our strategies; •the failure of the acquisition to result in expected benefits, which may include benefits relating to enhanced revenues, technology, human resources, costs savings, operating efficiencies and other synergies; •the difficulty and cost of integrating the acquired business, including costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures and costs and delays caused by communication difficulties or geographic distances between the two companies' sites; •the assumption of liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation-related liability; •the potential impairment of acquired assets; •the lack of experience in new markets, products or technologies or the initial dependence on unfamiliar supply or distribution partners; •the diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns; •the impairment of relationships with customers or suppliers of the acquired business or our customers or suppliers; •the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and •the potential incompatibility of business cultures. 25 These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. To the extent that we issue shares of our common stock or other rights to purchase our common stock in connection with any future acquisition, existing shareholders may experience dilution and our earnings per share may decrease. In 2007, we completed a number of strategic acquisitions. We are currently integrating the operations of those acquired entities with ours. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully integrate these operations, and even if we do so, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to obtain as a result of that integration, including projected cost reductions, in a given period or no a definitive basis. In addition to the risks commonly encountered in the acquisition of a business as described above, we may also experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a transaction. Further, the risks described above may be exacerbated as a result of managing multiple acquisitions at the same time. We also may invest in businesses that offer complementary products, services or technologies. These investments would be accompanied by risks similar to those encountered in an acquisition of a business. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types or risks. We have adopted policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our risks, including, among other things, establishing our Enterprise Risk Management Group with an internal audit function. These policies and procedures, however, may not be fully effective. Some of our risk evaluation methods depend upon information provided by others and public information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are otherwise accessible by us. In some cases, however, that information may not be accurate, complete or up-to-date. Also, because our IFAs work in small, decentralized offices, additional risk management challenges may exist. If our policies and procedures are not fully effective or we are not always successful capturing all risks to which we are or may be exposed, our business could be materially adversely affected. If the counterparties to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We use a variety of derivative instruments to hedge several business risks. If our counterparties fail to honor their obligations under the derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. That failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, cash flows that could be material. Our networks may be vulnerable to security risks. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. Our application service provider systems maintain and process confidential data on behalf of FAs and their clients, some of which is critical to FAs' business operations. For example, our brokerage systems maintain account and trading information for clients. If our application service provider systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems or facilities are infiltrated or damaged by unauthorized persons, clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation and significant business interruption. If such a disruption or failure occurs, we may be exposed to unexpected liability, clients may withdraw their assets, our reputation may be tarnished, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems in the future. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our confidential information or our clients' confidential information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our 26 operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. We may not be able to implement security measures that will protect against all security risks. Failure to maintain technological capabilities, flaws in existing technology, difficulties in upgrading our technology platform, or the introduction of a competitive platform could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We believe that our technology platform, particularly our BranchNet system, is one of our competitive strengths. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological advancements required to meet the changing demands of our FAs. In particular, the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render our existing systems obsolete or uncompetitive. Any upgrades or expansions may require significant expenditures of funds and may also increase the probability that we will suffer system degradations, outages and failures. There cannot be any assurance that we will have sufficient funds to adequately update and expand our networks, nor can there be any assurance that any upgrade or expansion attempts will be successful and accepted by our current and prospective IFAs and Financial Institutions. Our failure to adequately update and expand our systems and networks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. In addition, system degradations, outages or failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We believe our extensive prior investments in our proprietary technology platform and the scale advantage these investments have created enable us to add new IFAs without significant incremental costs. If a reasonably priced, competitive system became available to broker-dealers generally, and to smaller broker-dealers particularly, our scale advantage could be adversely affected. Our BranchNet system was developed over a period of more than ten years and at significant cost. There can be no assurance, however, that a competitive system cannot be developed that would provide broker-dealers with the ability to offer a competitive platform at an economical price. Disruption of our disaster recovery plans and procedures in the event of a catastrophe could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We have made a significant investment in our infrastructure, and our operations are dependent on our ability to protect the continuity of our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, breach of security, loss of power, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made events. A catastrophic event could have a direct negative impact on us by adversely affecting our employees or facilities, or an indirect impact on us by adversely affecting our IFAs, clients, financial institutions who employ FAs, the financial markets or the overall economy. While we have implemented business continuity and disaster recovery plans, it is impossible to fully anticipate and protect against all potential catastrophes. If our business continuity and disaster recovery plans and procedures were disrupted or unsuccessful in the event of a catastrophe, we could experience a material adverse interruption of our operations. Our ability to provide financial services to our IFAs, financial institutions who employ FAs and clients, and to create and maintain comprehensive tracking and reporting of client accounts depends on our capacity to store, retrieve and process data, manage significant databases and expand and periodically upgrade our information processing capabilities. Interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We do not currently maintain interruption insurance. 27 Our future success depends on our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. Our success and future growth depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. There is significant competition for qualified employees in the broker-dealer industry. We may not be able to retain our existing employees or fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover. The loss or unavailability of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We depend on key senior management personnel. Our success depends upon the continued services of our key senior management personnel, including our executive officers and senior managers. The loss of one or more of our key senior management personnel, and the failure to recruit a suitable replacement or replacements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. A loss of our marketing relationships with a variety of leading manufacturers of investment products could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We operate on an open architecture product platform with no proprietary investment products. To help our IFAs meet their clients' needs with suitable options, we have relationships with many industry leading providers of investment and insurance products. We have sponsorship agreements with some manufacturers of fixed and variable annuities and mutual funds that, subject to the survival of certain terms and conditions, may be terminated upon 30 days' notice. If we lose our relationships with one or more of these manufacturers, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. A change in our clearing service bureau relationships could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. LPL has used Thomson's Beta Systems as its clearing service bureau since 2000 to support its self-clearing services. In October 2007, we entered into an agreement with Pershing, LLC by which Pershing, LLC serves as the clearing broker for the Affiliated Broker-Dealers and UVEST. If we had to change the clearing service bureaus we use, we would experience a disruption to our business. Although we believe we have the resources to make such a transition with minimal disruption, we cannot predict the costs and time for a conversion to a new system. There cannot be any assurance that the disruption caused by a change in our clearing service bureau relationship would not have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could make some of the products distributed by our IFAs less attractive to clients. Some of the products distributed by our IFAs enjoy favorable treatment under current U.S. federal income tax law. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could make some of these products less attractive to clients and could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Failure to comply with ERISA regulations could result in penalties against us. We are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA, and to regulations promulgated thereunder, insofar as we act as a "fiduciary" under ERISA with respect to benefit plan clients. ERISA and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code impose duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA, prohibit specified transactions involving ERISA plan clients and provide monetary penalties for violations of these prohibitions. Our failure to comply with these requirements could result in significant penalties against us that could have a material adverse effect on 28 our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition (or, in a worst case, severely limit the extent to which we could act as fiduciaries for any plans under ERISA). Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and may limit our ability to use debt to fund future capital needs. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2007, we had total indebtedness of $1.45 billion. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and •limit our ability to borrow additional funds. Furthermore, if an event of default were to occur with respect to our credit agreement or other indebtedness, our creditors could, among other things, accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance indebtedness obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful or feasible. Our credit agreement restricts our ability to sell assets. Even if we could consummate those sales, the proceeds that we realize from them may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. In addition, as a result of reduced operating performance or weaker than expected financial condition, rating agencies may downgrade our senior subordinated notes, which would adversely affect the value of our common shares. We will be able to incur additional indebtedness or other obligations in the future, which would exacerbate the risks discussed above. Our senior secured credit agreement permits us to incur additional indebtedness. Although the amended and restated credit agreement contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute "indebtedness" as defined in the amended and restated credit agreement. To the extent new debt or other obligations are added to our currently anticipated debt levels, the substantial indebtedness risks described above would increase. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under such indebtedness, which may not be successful. 29 Restrictions under certain of our indebtednesses may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business. Certain of our indebtedness contain customary restrictions on our activities, including covenants that restrict us from: •incurring additional indebtedness or issuing disqualified stock or preferred stock; •paying dividends on, redeeming or repurchasing our capital stock; •making investments or acquisitions; •creating liens; •selling assets; •restricting dividends or other payments to us; •guaranteeing indebtedness; •engaging in transactions with affiliates; and •consolidating, merging or transferring all or substantially all of our assets. We are also required to meet specified financial ratios. These restrictions may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business. Our ability to comply with these restrictive covenants will depend on our future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. If we violate any of these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers, we would be in default under the applicable agreements and payment of the indebtedness could be accelerated. The acceleration of our indebtedness under one agreement may permit acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements that contain cross—default or cross—acceleration provisions. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay that indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our indebtedness is in default for any reason, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the common stock and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions. The Majority Holders control us and may have conflicts of interest with us. Investment funds affiliated with TPG Partners IV, LP and Hellman & Friedman Capital Partners, LP (collectively, the "Majority Holders") own approximately 59.3% of our capital stock, on a fully-diluted basis. Although our executive team has the contractual ability to terminate their employment agreements and receive certain payments if the Majority Holders enter into a transaction our executive team does not approve, the Majority Holders have significant influence over corporate transactions. Additionally, the Majority Holders are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or more of the Majority Holders may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result. those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as investment funds associated with or designated by the Majority Holders continue to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, the Majority Holders will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. 30 Our performance is affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our business operations, performance, and financial condition could be negatively affected by any of the following: •our dependency on our ability to attract and retain experienced and productive FAs; •our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions; •the economy and financial markets, including changes to interest rates; •the performance of the investment products and services our IFAs and our financial institutions recommend or distribute; •the competitive nature of our business; •the regulated nature of our business; •the failure to comply with regulatory capital requirements; •the failure to maintain adequate errors and omissions insurance coverage; •the misconduct and errors by our employees and our FAs; •our potential financial exposure resulting from errors in the securities settlement process; •the failure of our risk management policies and procedures to fully mitigate our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risks; •the vulnerability of our networks to security risks; •the failure to maintain technological capabilities, the difficulties in upgrading our technology platform or the introduction of a competitive platform; •the disruption of our disaster recovery plans and procedures in the event of a catastrophe; •our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees; •our dependency on key senior management personnel; •the loss of any or all of our marketing relationships with manufacturers of investment products; •our ability to execute on our business strategy; and •our reliance on our clearing service bureau. Provisions of our senior secured credit agreement could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of our credit agreement could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a change of control, all indebtedness under our credit agreement may be accelerated and become due. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that we might consider favorable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could deter, delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include: •staggered board of directors; •the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; •limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders; and •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals. 31 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 