Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We are a company with a limited operating history and have sustained net losses since our inception, including a net loss of $36.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and a net loss of $28.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. We had an accumulated deficit of $173.9 million at December 31, 2007. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses at least through 2008, as we invest in the development of our business. Our losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital. We are dependent on the success of our SurgASSIST platform and, in particular, of the next generation wireless handheld technology incorporated in our recently released i60 and iDrive products, and we cannot be certain that our technology and our products will achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to develop a sustainable, profitable business. Historically, most of our revenue has been derived from the sale of our single-patient, disposable Intelligent Surgical Instruments and, to a lesser extent, from the sale of reload cartridges for our reusable Intelligent Surgical Instruments. We expect that sales of our first generation products will continue to account for most of our sales for at least the next six months. However, we expect that, as our installed base of reusable, multiple-patient Intelligent Surgical Instruments grows and the number of firings of our instruments increases, sales of reload cartridges will become the largest component of our total sales. It is difficult to predict the penetration, future growth rate or size of the market for our SurgASSIST platform or the rate at which our installed base of instruments will be fired. The commercial success of our various Intelligent Surgical Instruments will require broad acceptance of the SurgASSIST platform by the surgeons who specialize in the procedures we target, a limited number of whom may be able to influence device selection and purchasing decisions. If the concept of computer-assisted power-actuated devices for tissue manipulation, cutting and stapling is not broadly accepted and perceived as having significant advantages over manually-actuated devices, then we will not meet our business objectives. Broad acceptance of our SurgASSIST platform will require a determination by hospitals and surgeons that our products are safe, cost-effective and represent acceptable methods of treatment. In addition, certain components of our SurgASSIST platform in its current configuration may be considered to be capital purchases that require administrative procedures and approvals from senior hospital management, the result of which can be an extended sales cycle requiring multiple individuals to believe in the advantages of our products. We cannot assure that our existing relationships and arrangements with hospitals and surgeons can be maintained or that new relationships will be established in support of our products. In addition, our competitors may develop new technology for tissue manipulation, cutting and stapling that is more attractive to surgeons and hospitals. If surgeons do not consider our products to be suitable for application in the procedures we are targeting and an improvement over the use of competing products, our business goals will not be realized. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to develop new and innovative products and to enhance our existing products. We experienced significant delays in new product introduction in 2006 and 2007, and if we do not achieve our current development goals in the time frames we expect, the commercialization of our new products may be delayed and, as a result, our operations may be adversely affected. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to develop new products, to introduce enhancements to our existing products and to develop these new technologies within targeted time 22 frames. These target estimates are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates for reasons that may or may not be within our control. For example, the commercial release of our PLC 60 linear stapler in 2006 was delayed almost nine months due to product design flaws and supply chain problems, and our ability to generate revenue from the PLC 60 staplers that we placed in hospitals beginning in December 2006 was adversely affected due to the unavailability in 2007 of certain reload cartridges for the device. Similarly, our ability to generate revenue from the new i60 liner stapler that we introduced in September 2007 has been adversely affected by the unavailability of green reload cartridges for the device and by problems with the initial quality of units delivered to customers and other issues. Design and materials engineering problems affecting a key component of the green reloads, which is manufactured for us by a third party, have required us to redesign the part. We currently expect the redesigned green reloads to be available in commercial quantities in the second quarter of 2008. Some early users of our i60 instrument have experienced difficulties, such as problems in consistently operating its articulation feature and in properly seating reload cartridges. Although these difficulties may in part be attributable to inadequate training or incorrect technique, they have led in some cases to a negative perception of product quality. Additionally, training of our sales force and the clinical personnel of our customers has taken longer than expected. Our inability to supply green reloads for the i60 has resulted in lost revenue opportunities and together with the other factors described above, has slowed the rate of adoption of our i60 instrument. Further delays in the availability of green reload cartridges, or in other planned product releases, or our inability to quickly resolve perceived quality issues and other factors affecting the success of our i60 product launch, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Customers may forego purchases of our existing products and purchase our competitors' products as a result of delays in the introduction of our new products and enhancements, failure by us to choose correctly among technical alternatives or failure by us to offer innovative products or enhancements at competitive prices and in a timely manner. In addition, announcements of new products by us or by competitors may result in a delay in or cancellation of purchasing decisions in anticipation of such new products. Any such losses could impair the value of your investment. We have limited manufacturing experience, have experienced significant manufacturing problems in the past, and may encounter difficulties in increasing production to provide an adequate supply to customers. The manufacture of our products is a complex and costly operation involving a number of separate processes and components. To date, our manufacturing activities have consisted primarily of assembling limited quantities of our products. We have considered, and will continue to consider as appropriate, manufacturing components that are currently provided by third parties, as well as implementing new production processes. We do not have experience in manufacturing our products in the commercial quantities that might be required to market our products in the United States, Europe and Japan. During 2006, we experienced significant difficulties in our supply chain and manufacturing operations, which impaired our ability to ship our products on a timely basis and had a material adverse impact on our results of operations for 2006. Similarly, throughout 2007 and the first quarter or 2008, we have experienced delays in the availability from a third party vendor of a critical component necessary to enable us to assemble one of the two sizes of reload cartridge that are used in our PLC 60 and i60 linear stapler. Our inability to ship reload cartridges in this size has adversely affected our ability to generate revenue from the PLC 60 devices we have placed in hospitals. We currently expect to resume shipping these reload cartridges in the second quarter of 2008. Manufacturing of our products in commercial quantities will require us to expand our manufacturing capabilities and to hire and train additional personnel. We expect that any expansion would be achieved through modified space utilization in our current leased facilities, improved efficiencies, increased automation and acquisition of 23 additional tooling and equipment. We may encounter difficulties in increasing our manufacturing capacity and in manufacturing commercial quantities, including: •maintaining product yields; •maintaining quality control and assurance; •providing component and service availability; •maintaining adequate control policies and procedures; and •hiring and retaining qualified personnel. Difficulties encountered in increasing our manufacturing capacity could impact our ability to adequately supply our customers. In order to achieve and sustain profitability, we must substantially improve our gross margins. The historical unit costs for our products, based on limited manufacturing volumes, have been very high in relation to our sales, resulting in low or negative gross margins. It will be necessary for us to achieve substantial further reductions in our cost of sales as a percentage of sales in order to become profitable. The transition to in-house production or to new production processes may initially have a negative effect on our manufacturing yields or costs, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our manufacturing processes are labor intensive, and achieving significant cost reductions will depend in part upon reducing the time required to perform these processes. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve the significant cost reductions in the manufacture of our products necessary for our business to achieve profitability. If our products are not considered to be a safe and effective alternative to existing technologies, we will not be commercially successful. Our Intelligent Surgical Instruments rely on new technology, and our success depends upon acceptance of this technology by the medical community as safe, clinically effective and cost effective and a preferred device as compared to products of our competitors. We have not collected, and are not aware that others have collected, long-term data regarding efficacy, safety and clinical outcomes associated with the use of our products. Any data that is generated in the future may not be positive or consistent with our current, largely anecdotal data, which would negatively affect market acceptance and the rate at which our Intelligent Surgical Instruments are adopted. Equally important will be physicians' perceptions of the safety of our products. Our technology is relatively new in surgery, and the results of short-term clinical experience with our SurgASSIST system do not necessarily predict long-term clinical benefits as compared to the products of our competitors. If, over the long term, our SurgASSIST system does not meet surgeons' expectations as to safety, efficacy and ease of use, the SurgASSIST system may not become widely adopted. Even if the data collected from future clinical studies or clinical experience indicates positive results, each surgeon's actual experience with our device outside the clinical study setting may vary. Consequently, both short- and long-term results reported in any future clinical studies may be significantly more favorable than typical results of other practicing surgeons, which could negatively affect rates of adoption and negatively affect our results. Because our markets are highly competitive, customers may choose to purchase our competitors' products, which would result in reduced sales and harm our financial results. Our SurgASSIST system is a new technology and must compete with the more established manual devices of our competitors, such as Covidien and Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. Conventional manual devices are widely accepted in the medical community, have a long history of use and do not require 24 the purchase of additional, expensive capital equipment. We cannot be certain that surgeons will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will be competitive with current or future products and technologies. Most of our competitors enjoy competitive advantages over us, including: •significantly greater name recognition; •longer operating histories; •established relationships with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors; •established distribution networks; •additional lines of products and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; •greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory clearance for products and marketing approved products; and •greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation. In addition, our SurgASSIST system in its original configuration has certain perceived disadvantages compared to conventional manual endomechanical devices. Prior to the introduction of our new i60 linear stapler and our iDrive wireless handheld power and control system, our Intelligent Surgical Instruments had to be tethered by a flexible shaft to a power console which is located outside the sterile field. Some surgeons and operating room personnel found this to be cumbersome and not well suited for all procedures. This factor may initially have limited market acceptance of our SurgASSIST platform. Our next generation untethered self-contained Intelligent Surgical Instruments are designed to eliminate this disadvantage of our SurgASSIST system, but we may need to overcome an initial negative perception by clinicians of our first-generation tethered technology. Our future success depends upon maintaining a competitive position in the development of products and technologies in our areas of focus. Our competitors may: •develop technologies and products that are more effective than our products or that render our technologies or products obsolete or noncompetitive; •obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that would prevent us from developing or enhancing our products; or •obtain regulatory approval for the commercialization of their products more rapidly or effectively than we do. Additional competitors also may enter our market. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. Our sales would be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective and less expensive than our products. Volatility in the demand for our products could, among other things, make it more difficult to gauge the manufacturing capacity necessary to meet our demand, decrease our manufacturing efficiency and increase our working capital requirements. If any of these occur, your investment in our common stock may decrease in value. 25 We assemble our Intelligent Surgical Instruments using our own customized equipment and plan to undertake a new manufacturing process, making us vulnerable to production and supply problems that could negatively impact our sales. We presently use customized equipment for certain steps in the assembly of our Intelligent Surgical Instruments. Because of the customized nature of our equipment, we cannot rely on third parties to find new parts or replace the equipment. As a result, we are responsible for maintaining the equipment and for locating spare parts. If the equipment malfunctions and we are unable to locate spare parts or hire qualified personnel to repair the equipment, we may encounter delays in the manufacture of our Intelligent Surgical Instruments and reloads and may not have sufficient inventory to meet our customers' demands, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have engaged a third party to develop and fabricate an automated system to enable us to assemble the reload cartridges for our PLC 60 and i60 linear staplers, which we currently assemble manually. We expect the system to be operational in the second quarter of 2008. While we believe the use of this new system should reduce our risk of supply problems, the automated system must be capable of manufacturing at our anticipated volume. However, there is no guarantee that the automated system will function at the capacity we require. The automated system will be located at our facility in Langhorne, Pennsylvania, which requires us to be responsible for the day-to-day control and protection of the system. Delay in the availability of, or unanticipated problems in our utilization of, this automated system could jeopardize our initiatives to improve our gross margins. We are dependent upon a number of key suppliers, including sole source suppliers, the loss of which would materially harm our business. We rely upon sole source suppliers for a number of key components and services used in manufacturing our products and, in general, we do not have long-term contracts with these suppliers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of such components or services in the future. Because we do not have long-term contracts, our suppliers generally are not required to provide us with any guaranteed minimum production levels. In addition, our reliance on third parties involves a number of risks, including, among other things: •suppliers may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or make errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the efficacy or safety of our products or cause delays in shipments of our products; •we may not be able to respond to unanticipated changes and increases in customer orders; •we may be subject to price fluctuations due to a lack of long-term supply arrangements for key components; •we may experience delays in delivery by our suppliers due to changes in demand from us or their other customers; •we may lose access to critical services and components, resulting in an interruption in the manufacture, assembly and shipment of our systems; •fluctuations in demand for products that our suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability or willingness to deliver components to us in a timely manner; •our suppliers may wish to discontinue supplying components or services to us for risk management reasons; 26 •we may not be able to find new or alternative components or reconfigure our system and manufacturing processes in a timely manner if the necessary components become unavailable; and •our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. If any of these risks materialize, it could significantly increase our costs and impact our ability to meet demand for our products. We cannot quickly replace suppliers or establish additional new suppliers for some of these components, due to both the complex nature of the manufacturing process used by our suppliers and the time and effort that may be required to obtain regulatory clearance or approval to use materials from alternative suppliers. Any significant supply interruption or capacity constraints affecting our facilities or those of our suppliers would impair our ability to manufacture our products. If we are unable to manage our expected growth, our performance may suffer. As of March 28, 2008, we had approximately 177 employees, compared with 133 at December 31, 2006. We will need to continue to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources to manage and fund our operations, continue our research and development activities, increase the sales force and develop our products. It is possible that our management, finance, technical and regulatory personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support the recent rapid growth in our operations, and our expected future growth. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and programs requires that we continue to improve our systems and procedures in each of these areas and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development and growth goals. In March 2008, our chief operations officer, Alex Bourdon, resigned. Mr. Bourdon was one of our three executive officers and was responsible for our manufacturing operations as well as for our regulatory compliance operations. We have hired Michael M. Fard as vice president of operations, effective March 24, 2008. This transition in our senior management team may in the near term impair our ability to effectively manage our growing operations and to implement required systems improvements. We must upgrade and correct deficiencies in our regulatory compliance operations, and our failure to do so could impair our ability to market our products or lead to regulatory enforcement action against us. We are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and other countries, including by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. We maintain an organization of managers, engineers and administrative personnel, consisting of 22 persons at December 31, 2007, whose responsibility it is to ensure that our products, facilities and operations comply with applicable regulatory requirements. However, during 2007 we experienced shortages of qualified regulatory compliance staff due to turnover and illness, among other factors, and we need to upgrade and carefully manage our regulatory compliance operations in order to accommodate our expected growth. Additionally, the senior vice president of regulatory affairs and quality assurance whom we hired in the fourth quarter of 2007, resigned in January 2008. We currently are not seeking to recruit a successor for him, and have divided his responsibilities among several of our current employees. Our chief operations officer, Alex Bourdon, to whom our senior vice president of regulatory affairs and quality assurance reported, also resigned in March 2008. In April 2007, following an inspection of our facilities, the FDA issued a Notice of Inspectional Observations, or Form 483, which included 24 inspectional observations, which are more fully described elsewhere in this report. We were also inspected by the FDA in 2002, 2003 and 2005, and some of the 27 observations in the FDA's April 2007 Form 483 are similar to those we received in earlier inspections. As a result of these events, we concluded that there are significant deficiencies in our regulatory compliance operations, and are taking steps to rectify these deficiencies. We also have begun the process of making needed improvements in our corrective and preventive action, complaint handling and medical device reporting procedures, in our processes for compliance with other requirements of the FDA's quality system regulations and in our related controls and internal audit functions. In late 2007 we engaged an independent consultant to audit our compliance with certain aspects of the FDA's quality system regulations. The consultant noted improvements in our complaint management, failure investigation, medical device report reporting, management review, internal audit and corrective and preventative action processes, but also identified areas for improvement in our FDA quality system regulations in each of these areas, some of which related to occurrences after the FDA's April 2007 Form 483. If we are not successful in identifying and recruiting qualified personnel to manage and staff our regulatory compliance operations or in implementing necessary process improvements on a timely basis, we could be subject to regulatory enforcement actions which could damage our reputation, impair our ability to obtain regulatory clearances for new products, prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products and harm our business. We have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in our financial statements and our company, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We have concluded that there is a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting because we do not have a sufficient number of personnel with the appropriate level of experience and technical expertise to appropriately resolve non-routine and complex accounting matters or to evaluate the impact of new and existing accounting pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements while completing the financial statement close process. The material weakness resulted in the identification of adjustments during the financial statement close process in 2007 that have been recorded in our consolidated financial statements. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected. Until this design deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting is remediated, there is reasonable possibility that a material misstatement to our annual or interim consolidated financial statements could occur and not be prevented or detected by our internal controls in a timely manner. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, when we file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, we must assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our 2008 fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that are identified by management. The report must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management's assessment of such internal controls. If we are unable at that time to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective because the material weakness identified above has not been remediated, or for any other reason, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 28 Any failure in our training efforts could result in lower than expected product sales and potential liabilities. A critical component of our sales and marketing efforts is the training of a sufficient number of surgeons, other clinicians and hospital staff to properly use our SurgASSIST system. In order to operate effectively, our internal sales force must also be trained on the benefits and proper utilization of our technology, including newly introduced products. In connection with the introduction of our i60 and iDrive products, we have found that it takes longer than we expected to adequately train our internal sales force and customers' clinical personnel on the use and care of these instruments, due in part to their novelty and to the need to employ new sterilization techniques. Additionally, the number of i60 and iDrive demonstration units available for use by our sales force was limited during the early phases of our i60 product launch. As a result, it has taken longer for our sales force to become fully effective in selling these new products, and the rate of adoption of our new technology has been adversely affected. Any further delays in adequately training our internal sales force or our customers' clinical personnel on these or other products could harm our business. Additionally, we rely on clinicians and hospital staff to devote adequate time to learn to use our products. If surgeons or hospital staff are not properly trained in the use of our Intelligent Surgical Instruments, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products. For example, during 2007, we received reports of incomplete firings of our reusable PLC 60 instrument that we believed were attributable to improper installation of reload cartridges by our customers' medical personnel. More recently, we have received similar reports relating to the seating of reload cartridges in our i60 and PLC 75 linear staplers. We initiated improvements in our training procedures to alert customers to the need to properly seat the reload cartridges, and designed a new version of the reload cartridge to incorporate a positive locking feature to make this error less likely to occur. However, insufficient training may result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury and related liability or negative publicity, which could have an adverse effect on our product sales. The use of our products could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, divert management's attention and harm our reputation and business. Our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. The medical device industry has historically been subject to extensive product liability litigation. We have in the past been, and in the future may be, subject to claims by consumers, healthcare providers, third-party payors or others selling our products if the use of our products were to cause, or merely appear to cause, injury or death. We are currently the subject of a product liability suit in Belgium. Any weakness in training and service associated with our products may also result in product liability lawsuits. Additionally, we may be unable to maintain our existing product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or adequate amounts. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome or the availability of insurance coverage, could result in: •decreased demand for our products; •injury to our reputation; •diversion of management's attention; •significant costs of related litigation; •substantial monetary awards to patients; •product recalls or market withdrawals; •loss of sales; and •the inability to successfully commercialize our products that are under development. 29 If we deliver products with defects, our credibility may be harmed and market acceptance of our products may decrease. The manufacturing and marketing of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims. In addition, our product development and production processes are complex and could expose our products to defects. Additionally, problems experienced by our customers, such as difficulty in consistently seating our reload cartridges may be perceived by them as quality defects. Our SurgASSIST system also incorporates sophisticated computer software. Complex software frequently contains errors, especially when first introduced. We cannot assure you that our software will not experience errors or performance problems in the future. If our products have, or are perceived to have, mechanical defects or software errors or have performance problems, we would likely experience: •loss of sales; •delay in market acceptance of our products; •damage to our reputation; •additional regulatory filings; •product recalls; •increased service or warranty costs; or •product liability claims. We may need substantial additional funding and we may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We believe that the net proceeds from our recent initial public offering, together with our future sales, existing cash and cash equivalent balances and interest we earn on these balances, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements through January 1, 2009. We have made no arrangements to obtain additional financing, and there can be no assurance that such financing, if required or desired, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has modified its audit report on our consolidated financial statements to include an explanatory paragraph regarding this contingency. However, our actual capital requirements will depend on many factors, many of which are outside our control, including: •future revenue generation; •the cost of filing and prosecuting patent applications and defending and enforcing our patent and other intellectual property rights; •the cost of defending, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third party patent or other intellectual property rights; •the cost and timing of regulatory approvals; •expenses of future clinical studies, if any; •the effect of competing technological and market developments; •licensing technologies for future development; and •the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies, although we currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. 30 Historically, we have financed our operations and internal growth primarily through private placements of equity securities and debt and, more recently, our initial public offering. We cannot be certain that additional public or private financing will be available in amounts acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution may occur. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. Substantially all our assets are subject to a security interest in favor of the holders of our convertible notes, which may limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing. Additionally, if we default in the payment of our convertible notes, our noteholders will be entitled to exercise their rights as secured creditors, which include the right to foreclose on the assets we have provided as collateral, which could materially impair our ability to continue to operate our business. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may have to delay or reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our development programs or we may be forced to seek protection under applicable bankruptcy laws. Any restructuring or bankruptcy could materially impair your investment. We sell our systems internationally and are subject to various risks relating to these international activities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2007, 18% of our sales occurred in international markets. In 2006, 21% of our sales occurred in international markets. By doing business in international markets, we are exposed to risks separate and distinct from those we face in our domestic operations. Our international business may be adversely affected by changing economic conditions in foreign countries. Because most of our international sales are denominated in the functional currency of the country where the product is being shipped, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could affect our results of operations. Engaging in international business inherently involves a number of other difficulties and risks, including: •export restrictions and controls relating to technology and government regulation; •the availability and level of reimbursement within prevailing foreign healthcare payment systems; •pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; •required compliance with existing and changing foreign regulatory requirements and laws; •laws and business practices favoring local companies; •longer payment cycles; •difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; •political and economic instability; •potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs and other trade barriers; •international terrorism and anti-American sentiment; •difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; and •difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights. Our exposure to each of these risks may increase our costs, impair our ability to market and sell our products and require significant management attention. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. 31 If we choose to acquire or invest in new and complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves, such acquisitions or investments could disrupt our business. We may attempt to expand our business through acquisitions. To the extent we grow our business through acquisitions, our future success may be partially dependent upon our ability to effectively integrate acquired businesses with our own. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will be successfully integrated or that any such acquisitions will otherwise be successful. If our acquisitions are unsuccessful for any reason, our business may be harmed and the value of your investment may decline. We are dependent upon key personnel, the loss of any of which could harm our business. Our future business and operating results depend significantly on the continued contributions of our key technical personnel and senior management, particularly those of our co-founder, Chief Executive Officer and President, Michael P. Whitman. These individuals and the services they provide would be difficult or impossible to replace. While we are subject to certain severance obligations to Mr. Whitman, either he or we may terminate his employment at any time and for any lawful reason or for no reason. Our business and future operating results also depend significantly on our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, regulatory, marketing, sales and support personnel for our operations. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Although we have key-person life insurance in the amount of $2.0 million on the life of Mr. Whitman, this amount would not fully compensate us for the loss of Mr. Whitman's services. The loss of key employees, the failure of any key employee to perform or our inability to attract and retain skilled employees, as needed, could harm our business. Lack of third-party coverage and reimbursement for our products could delay or limit their adoption. We may experience limited sales growth resulting from limitations on reimbursements made to purchasers of our products by third-party payors, and we cannot assure you that our sales will not be impeded and our business harmed if third-party payors fail to provide reimbursement that hospitals view as adequate. In the United States, our products are purchased primarily by medical institutions, which then bill various third-party payors, such as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, which administers the Medicare program, and other government programs and private insurance plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The process involved in applying for coverage and incremental reimbursement from CMS is lengthy and expensive. Moreover, many private payors look to CMS in setting their reimbursement policies and amounts. If CMS or other agencies limit coverage for procedures utilizing our SurgASSIST system or decrease or limit reimbursement payments for doctors and hospitals, this may affect coverage and reimbursement determinations by many private payors. If a medical device does not receive incremental reimbursement from CMS, then a medical institution would have to absorb the cost of our products as part of the cost of the procedure in which the products are used. Acute care hospitals are now generally reimbursed by CMS for inpatient operating costs under a Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system. Under the Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system, acute care hospitals receive a fixed payment amount for each covered hospitalized patient based upon the Diagnosis-Related Group, or DRG, to which the inpatient stay is assigned, regardless of the actual cost of the services provided. At this time, we do not know the extent to which medical institutions would consider insurers' payment levels adequate to cover the cost of our products. Failure by hospitals and surgeons to receive an amount that they consider to be adequate reimbursement for procedures in which our products are used could deter 32 them from purchasing our products and limit our sales growth. In addition, pre-determined DRG payments may decline over time, which could deter medical institutions from purchasing our products. If medical institutions are unable to justify the costs of our products, they may refuse to purchase them, which would significantly harm our business. Our operations are currently conducted primarily at a single location that may be at risk from fire, earthquakes, terror attacks or other disasters. We currently conduct all of our manufacturing and management activities and certain research and development activities at a single location in Langhorne, Pennsylvania. We have taken precautions to safeguard our facilities, including insurance, health and safety protocols and off-site storage of computer data. However, a casualty due to fire or natural disaster, such as an earthquake, storm or terrorist attack, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our equipment or inventory and cause us to incur additional expenses. A disaster could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Our insurance does not cover earthquakes and floods and may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we fail to adequately enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, our business may be harmed. Much of the technology used in the markets in which we compete is covered by patents, and our commercial success will depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and trade secret protection for our products and methods. We currently hold 24 issued United States patents, five granted European patents, more than 100 pending United States and foreign patent applications and two licensed patents that cover key aspects of our technology. Our issued patents expire at various dates beginning in 2019. The loss of our patents could reduce the value of the related products. In addition, the cost to litigate infringements of our patents or the cost to defend ourselves against patent infringement actions by others could be substantial. Our ability to obtain additional patents is uncertain and the legal protection afforded by these patents is limited and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. In addition, the specific content required of patents and patent applications that is necessary to support and interpret patent claims is highly uncertain due to the complex nature of the relevant legal, scientific and factual issues. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States or elsewhere may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Even if patents are issued regarding our products and methods, our competitors may challenge the validity of those patents. Patents also will not protect our products and methods if competitors devise ways of making competitive products without infringing our patents. Proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how are also very important to our business. We rely on trade secrets to protect certain aspects of our technology, especially where we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Our employees, consultants, contractors, outside clinical collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors, and confidentiality agreements may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. 33 If we infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, it may increase our costs or prevent us from being able to sell our existing products or commercialize new products. There is a risk that we are infringing the proprietary rights of third parties under patents and pending applications belonging to third parties that may exist in the United States and elsewhere in the world and that relate to the products we market and develop. Because the patent application process can take several years to complete, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may result in issued patents that cover the production, manufacture, commercialization or use of our products. In addition, the production, manufacture, commercialization or use of our product candidates may infringe existing patents of which we are not aware. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. Defending ourselves against third-party claims, including litigation in particular, would be costly and time consuming and would divert management's attention from our business, which could lead to delays in our development or commercialization efforts. Currently, we are involved in two appeal proceedings in Germany in connection with two of three patent-infringement lawsuits against us. The lawsuits alleged that certain of our products infringe three European patents held by Ethicon Endo-Surgery. We prevailed in two of the three infringement actions and the products in question were found not to infringe the Ethicon Endo-Surgery patents, and Ethicon Endo-Surgery is appealing one of those decisions. We lost the other infringement action and are appealing that decision. If third parties are successful in their claims, we might have to pay substantial damages or take other actions that are adverse to our business. As a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we might: •be prohibited from selling or licensing any of our current products or any product that we may develop unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, which it is not required to do; •be required to pay substantial royalties or grant a cross license to our patents to another patent holder; or •be required to redesign a product so it does not infringe, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We could in the future be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending against such claims, a court could order us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from using technologies or features that are essential to our products, if such technologies or features are found to incorporate or be derived from the trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. In addition, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain potential products, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, such litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. 34 Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance Our failure to meet strict regulatory requirements could require us to pay fines, incur other costs or even close our facilities. Our facilities and manufacturing techniques generally must conform to standards that are established by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other government agencies, including those of European and other foreign governments. These regulatory agencies may conduct periodic audits or inspections of our facilities or our processes to monitor our compliance with applicable regulatory standards. If a regulatory agency finds that we have failed to comply with the appropriate regulatory standards, it may impose fines on us, delay or withdraw pre-market clearances or other regulatory approvals or, if such a regulatory agency determines that our non-compliance is severe, it may close our facilities. Any adverse action by an applicable regulatory agency could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers' demands. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. Between May 2002 and June 2005, the FDA conducted three inspections of our facilities. Each of those inspections resulted in the issuance of a Notice of Inspectional Observations, or Form 483. Certain observations regarding our processes to handle customer complaints, submit medical device reports, initiate corrective and preventive actions and to conduct internal quality audits were identified by the FDA as areas of possible non-compliance with FDA regulations. For each of those Form 483s issued by the FDA, we submitted a response which identified our proposed corrective action plans to address the FDA's inspectional observations. In each case, the FDA issued an Establishment Inspection Report, or EIR, which officially closed FDA's inspection. From February 13 to April 26, 2007, the FDA conducted an additional inspection of our facility in Langhorne, Pennsylvania. A Form 483 was provided to us at the conclusion of the inspection. In the FDA's most recent Form 483, 24 inspectional observations were identified, including the failure to properly process customer complaints, failure to submit to the FDA medical device reports or to submit them within regulatory timeframes, and the lack of reporting a field action. Certain of the FDA's inspectional observations are similar to observations identified in the prior Form 483s issued to us. We prepared and submitted a response to the FDA, which included our proposed corrective actions to address the FDA's observations. Whether the FDA will accept our response is uncertain, particularly in light of the similar nature of the current inspectional observations to the previous observations. If the FDA does not agree with our proposed corrective actions, or accepts them but finds that we have not implemented them adequately, if the FDA is concerned about the repetitive nature of the inspectional observations, or if we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the FDA could initiate an enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions: •untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; •customer notifications or repair, replacement, refunds, recall, detention or seizure of our products; •operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; •refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval, or PMA, of new products or modified products; •withdrawing 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals that have already been granted; •refusal to grant export approval for our products; or •criminal prosecution. 35 We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws. The federal anti-kickback laws and several similar state laws prohibit payments that are intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. These laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements and sales programs we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers or users of medical devices. In particular, these laws influence how we structure our sales, customer support, education and training programs and physician consulting and other service arrangements. Although we seek to structure such arrangements in compliance with applicable requirements, these laws are broadly written and it is difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied in specific circumstances. We could be subject to a claim under these anti-kickback laws for our consulting arrangements with surgeons, grants for training and other education, grants for research and other interactions with doctors which have come under scrutiny by federal and state regulators and law enforcement entities. Anti-kickback laws prescribe civil, criminal and administrative penalties for noncompliance, which can be substantial. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the lack of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some industry activities, it is possible that our sales, marketing and promotional activities practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or related laws. Even an unsuccessful challenge to or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity and thus could harm our business and results of operations. Foreign sales of our products also subject us to similar fraud and abuse laws, including application of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If our operations, including any consulting arrangements we may enter into with physicians who use our products, are found to be in violation of these laws, we or our officers may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid program participation. If enforcement action were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. Modifications to our products may require new regulatory clearances or approvals or may require us to recall or cease marketing our products until clearances or approvals are obtained. Modifications to our products may require new regulatory approvals or clearances, including 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals, or require us to recall or cease marketing the modified devices until these clearances or approvals are obtained. The FDA requires device manufacturers to initially make and document a determination of whether or not a modification requires a new approval, supplement or clearance. A manufacturer may determine that a modification could not significantly affect safety or efficacy and does not represent a major change in its intended use, so that no new 510(k) clearance is necessary. However, the FDA can review a manufacturer's decision and may disagree. The FDA may also on its own initiative determine that a new clearance or approval is required. We have made modifications to our products in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing our products as modified, which could require us to redesign our products and harm our operating results. In these circumstances, we may be subject to significant enforcement actions. If a manufacturer determines that a modification to an FDA-cleared device could significantly affect its safety or efficacy, or would constitute a major change in its intended use, then the manufacturer must file for a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a premarket approval application. Where we determine that modifications to our products require a new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval application, we may not be able to obtain those additional clearances or approvals for the modifications or additional indications in a timely manner, or at all. For those products sold in the European Union, 36 we must notify Orion Registrar, Inc., or Orion, our E.U. Notified Body, if significant changes are made to the products or if there are substantial changes to our quality assurance systems affecting those products. Obtaining clearances and approvals can be a time consuming process, and failure to obtain or delays in obtaining required future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our future growth. There is no guarantee that the FDA will grant 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of our emerging technologies and failure to obtain necessary clearances or approvals for our future products would adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Some of our new products, such as our proposed i60RB4 and i45V linear staplers, will require FDA clearance of a 510(k), or may even require FDA approval of a PMA. We are in the process of developing our regulatory strategies for obtaining clearance or approval of these new products. The FDA may not approve or clear these products for the indications that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization. Indeed, the FDA may refuse our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products, new intended uses or modifications to existing products. Failure to receive clearance or approval for our new products would have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulations, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted and our product sales and operating results could suffer. Our finished goods manufacturing processes, and those of some of our contract manufacturers, are required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulations, or QSRs, which cover the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA enforces its QSRs through periodic inspections of manufacturing facilities. We and our contract manufacturers have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections. If our manufacturing facilities or those of any of our contract manufacturers fail to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection, the FDA could take enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions, which could have a material impact on our operations: •untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; •customer notifications or repair, replacement, refunds, recall, detention or seizure of our products; •operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; •refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products or modified products; •withdrawing 510(k) clearances on PMA approvals that have already been granted; •refusal to grant export approval for our products; or •criminal prosecution. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation, business and financial results. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious injury or death. In addition, foreign 37 governmental bodies have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The FDA requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to FDA within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. Companies are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not reportable to the FDA. We have initiated certain voluntary recalls involving products that have been distributed to our customers and may take additional such actions in the future. We believe that certain of those recalls do not require notification of the FDA. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, they could require us to report those actions as recalls. A future recall announcement could harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our sales. In addition, the FDA could take enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions for failing to report the recalls when they were conducted: •untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; •customer notifications or repair, replacement, refunds, recall, detention of seizure of our products; •operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; •refusing or delaying requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products or modified products; •withdrawing 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals that have already been granted; •refusal to grant export approval for our products; or •criminal prosecution. If our products, or malfunction of our products, cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to report to the FDA information that a device has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or one of our similar devices were to recur. All manufacturers placing medical devices in the market in the European Union are legally bound to report any serious or potentially serious incidents involving devices they produce or sell to the Competent Authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. Were this to happen to us, the relevant Competent Authority would file an initial report, and there would then be a further inspection or assessment if there are particular issues. This would be carried out either by the Competent Authority or it could require that Orion, as the Notified Body, carry out the inspection or assessment. Any such adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Adverse events involving our products have been reported to us in the past, and we cannot guarantee that they will not occur in the future. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. Failure to report such adverse events to appropriate government authorities on a timely basis, or at all, could result in an enforcement action against us. 38 Failure to obtain regulatory approval in additional foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from expanding the commercialization of our products abroad. We intend to market our products in a number of international markets. Although certain of our products have been approved for commercialization in Japan and in the European Union, in order to market our products in other foreign jurisdictions we must obtain separate regulatory approvals. The approval procedure varies among jurisdictions and can involve substantial additional testing. Approval or clearance by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign jurisdictions or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval in addition to other risks. In addition, the time required to obtain foreign approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval, and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any foreign market other than in the European Union and Japan. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or "off-label" uses. Our promotional materials and training methods for surgeons must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations. Many of our products are cleared by the FDA for use in various surgical applications. We believe that the specific surgical procedures for which our products are marketed fall within the scope of the surgical applications that have been cleared by the FDA. However, the FDA could disagree and require us to stop promoting our products for those specific procedures until we obtain FDA clearance or approval for them. In addition, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. Federal regulatory reforms may adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of a medical device. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Congress has recently enacted, and the President has signed into law, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007. The amendments require, among other things, that FDA propose, and ultimately implement, regulations that will require manufacturers to label medical devices with unique identifiers unless a waiver is received from FDA. Once implemented, compliance with those regulations may require us to take additional steps in the manufacture of our products and labeling. These steps may require additional resources and could be costly. In addition, the law, as amended, will require us to, among other things, pay annual establishment registration fees to the FDA for each of our FDA registered facilities. 39 Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. Until our recent initial public offering, there was no public market for shares of our common stock. Since our initial public offering in October 2007, the market price of our common stock has ranged from $5.80 to $14.64. The market price for our common stock is likely to continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including: •actual or anticipated announcements of technological innovations; •introduction by us or by others of new commercial products; •actual or anticipated changes in laws and governmental regulations; •disputes relating to patents or proprietary rights; •changes in business practices; •developments relating to our efforts to obtain additional financing to fund our operations or our issuance of additional debt or equity securities; •announcements by us regarding transactions with potential strategic partners; •changes in industry trends or conditions; •trading volume of our common stock; •changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, failure to obtain analyst coverage of our common stock or our failure to achieve analysts' earnings estimates; •developments in our industry; and •general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors or potential competitors. Stock prices of many companies in the medical device industry have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been initiated against a company following a period of volatility in the market price of the company's securities. If securities class action litigation is initiated against us, we will incur substantial costs and our management's attention will be diverted from our operations. All of these factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and you may lose some or all of your investment. Securities analysts may not initiate or continue coverage for our common stock or may issue negative reports, and this may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Securities analysts may elect not to provide research coverage of our common stock, and if a sufficient number of securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who elect to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and a global settlement reached in 2003 between the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, other regulatory agencies and a number of investment banks have led to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated. In particular, many investment banking firms will be required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. It may be difficult for companies such as ours, with smaller market capitalizations, to 40 attract independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock. This could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock. Our principal stockholders, directors and management own a large percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to exercise significant influence over matters subject to stockholder approval. Our executive officers, directors and stockholders holding 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially own or control approximately 40.8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, assuming no exercise of outstanding options and warrants or conversion of our convertible notes. Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and principal stockholders, acting as a group, will have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of our company, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. This significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors' perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; •limitations on convening stockholder meetings; •the elimination of stockholder action by written consent; •the elimination of cumulative voting; and •a classified board of directors. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that they may occur, may depress the market price of our common stock. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell substantial shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Approximately 2.7 million shares of our common stock that are issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes that we issued in March 2007 are now eligible for resale under Rule 144. Approximately 17.1 million additional shares of our common stock are outstanding, assuming no exercise of outstanding options or warrants or conversion of our convertible notes. Of these, 12.5 million shares are held by existing stockholders who are subject to lock-up agreements with the underwriters of our initial public offering which prohibit the sale of such shares until at least April 22, 2008. If the holders of these restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them when these restrictions on resale end, the market price of our common stock could drop significantly. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to any resale registration statements or Rule 144 may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock by creating an excessive supply. 41 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 