D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business is sensitive to the current global economic crisis. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global economy could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Despite improved global market and economic conditions and reduced short-term risks, the global economy is expected to remain subdued, and recovery is only mild in 2013. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recessions, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. The European sovereign debt crisis has escalated since 2011 and it is unclear whether the European sovereign debt crisis will be contained and what effects it may have. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions, and it is impossible to predict how the Chinese economy will develop in the future and whether it might experience any financial crisis in a manner and scale similar to that in the United States. Any slowdown in China’s economic development might lead to tighter credit markets, increased market volatility, sudden drops in business and consumer confidence and dramatic changes in business and consumer behaviors. In response to their perceived uncertainty in economic conditions, consumers might delay, reduce or cancel purchases of homes, and our homebuyers may also defer, reduce or cancel purchases of our units. We have experienced some volatilities in demand from time to time in the recent years due to the strict mortgage policy and other measures taken by the PRC government to slow down the rapid increase in housing prices. Although, commencing in the second half of 2014, the PRC government has begun to loosen mortgage restrictions, the demand in the real estate market in China has weakened. We remain optimistic about the Chinese economy, but to the extent any fluctuations in the Chinese economy significantly affect homebuyers’ demand for our units or change their spending habits, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The PRC economy also faces challenges in the short to medium term. Continued turbulence in the international markets and prolonged declines in consumer spending, including home purchases, as well as any slowdown of economic growth in China, may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. With our expansion into the U.S. market in 2012, we will be increasingly sensitive to the general economic conditions in the U.S. and industry conditions of the U.S. housing market in particular. The U.S. housing industry is highly cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in industry conditions, as well as in global and local economic conditions, such as changes in employment and income levels, availability of financing for buyers, interest rates, levels of new and existing homes for sale demographic, trends and housing demand. The U.S. market experienced a significant downturn in recent years. Although certain markets in the U.S. have begun to recover, including our targeted areas of New York and California, the housing market remains depressed and the duration and ultimate speed of recovery remain uncertain. Deterioration in industry conditions in the U.S. or in broader economic conditions could have additional material adverse effects on our business expansion in the U.S. and financial results. We are a holding company that depends on dividend payments from our subsidiaries for funding We are a holding company established in the Cayman Islands and operate most of our business and operations through our subsidiaries in China. Therefore, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and to service our indebtedness outside of China depends significantly upon dividends that we receive from our subsidiaries in China. To the extent our U.S. operation continues to grow, we may in the future also depend on dividends from our U.S. subsidiaries. If our subsidiaries incur indebtedness or losses, such indebtedness or losses may impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us. As a result, our ability to pay dividends and to service our indebtedness will be restricted. Regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Each of our PRC subsidiaries, including wholly foreign-owned enterprises and domestic companies, is required to set aside at least 10.0% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its statutory capital reserve fund until the cumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50.0% of its respective registered capital and, with the approval of a shareholder meeting or general shareholder meeting, a PRC subsidiary may set aside a certain amount of after-tax profit to its general reserves. As of December 31, 2014, our statutory reserves amounted to US$72.8 million. Our statutory reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Dividends paid by the PRC subsidiaries may also be subject to PRC withholding tax. In addition, restrictive covenants in bank credit facilities, other long-term debt agreements, joint venture agreements or other agreements that we or our subsidiaries currently have or may enter into in the future may also restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to make contributions to us and our ability to receive distributions. Therefore, these restrictions on the availability and usage of our major source of funding may impact our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and to service our indebtedness. 8 Our business requires access to substantial financing. Our failure to obtain adequate financing in a timely manner could severely adversely (1) restrict our ability to complete existing projects, expand our business, or repay our obligations and (2) affect our financial performance and condition. Our property development business is capital intensive. To date, we have funded our operations primarily through bank borrowings, proceeds from sales and pre-sales of our properties and proceeds from issuance of equity and debt securities. We obtain commercial bank financing for our projects through credit lines extended on a case-by-case basis. Our ability to secure sufficient financing for land use rights acquisition and property development and repayment of our existing onshore and offshore debt obligations depends on a number of factors that are beyond our control, including lenders’ perceptions of our creditworthiness, sufficiency of the collateral, if any, market conditions in the capital markets, investors’ perception of our securities, the PRC economy and PRC government regulations that affect the availability and cost of financing for real estate companies or property purchasers. Since 2003, PRC commercial banks have been prohibited, under the guidelines of the PBOC, from advancing loans to fund the payment of land use rights. We generate significant cash flow through pre-sales, which are subject to government restrictions. In particular, PRC regulations on the pre-sales of properties generally provide that the proceeds from the pre-sales of a real estate project may only be used for the construction of such project. Any additional potential government restrictions on pre-sales could significantly increase our financing needs. Moreover, our ability to move cash through inter-company transfers or transfer funds from onshore subsidiaries to our offshore parent company is limited by PRC government regulations, which limits our ability to use excess cash resources in one subsidiary to fund the obligations of another subsidiary or our offshore parent company. In addition, reserve requirement applicable to PRC commercial banks generally limit, and any increases in such reserve requirements could further limit, the amount of commercial bank credit available to businesses in China, including us. Furthermore, various other PRC regulations restrict our ability to raise capital through external financing and other methods, including, without limitation, the following: ·we cannot borrow from a PRC bank for a particular project if we do not have the land use rights certificate for that project; ·we cannot pre-sell uncompleted residential units in a project prior to achieving certain development milestones specified in related regulations; ·we cannot borrow from a PRC bank for a particular project unless we fund at least 35% of the total investment amount of that project from our own capital; ·property developers are strictly restricted from using the proceeds from a loan obtained from a local bank to fund property developments outside the region where that bank is located; and ·PRC banks are prohibited from accepting properties that have been vacant for more than three years as collateral for loans. 9 As of December 31, 2014, our contractual obligations amounted to US$2,161.2 million, primarily arising from contracted construction costs or other capital commitments for future property developments and debt obligations. Of this amount, US$1,285.2 million was due within one year. There can be no assurance that our internally generated cash flow and external financing will be sufficient for us to meet our contractual and financing obligations in a timely manner. Due to the current measures imposed (as well as other measures that may be imposed by the PRC government in the future) which limit our access to additional capital, as well as restrictions imposed on our conduct under existing debt arrangements, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient funding to finance intended purchases of land use rights, develop future projects or meet other capital needs as and when required at a commercially reasonable cost or at all. Our failure to obtain adequate financing in a timely manner and on reasonable terms could severely adversely (1) restrict our ability to complete existing projects, expand our business, or repay our obligations and (2) affect our cash flow, liquidity, financial performance and condition. If we are unable to successfully manage our expansion into other cities in China, we will not be able to execute our business plan. Historically, our business and operations was concentrated in Zhengzhou. Since 2006, we have expanded our residential property development operations into other high growth cities, consisting of Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin, Chengdu in Sichuan Province, Hefei in Anhui Province, Jinan in Shandong Province, Suzhou, Kunshan and Xuzhou in Jiangsu Province, Zhengzhou and Xingyang in Henan Province, Sanya in Hainan Province, Changsha in Hunan Province, and Xi’an in Shaanxi Province. We plan to expand into other cities as suitable opportunities arise. The development of real estate projects in other cities will impose significant demands on our management and other operational resources. Moreover, we will face additional competition and will need to establish brand recognition and market acceptance for our developments in these new markets. Each of these cities has its own unique market conditions, customer requirements and local regulations related to the local real estate industry. If we are unable to successfully develop and sell projects outside of our existing markets, our future growth may be limited and we may not generate adequate returns to cover our investments in these new markets. In addition, if we expand our operations to other cities with higher land prices, our costs may increase, which may lead to a decrease in our profit margin, or impairments resulting from land value decreases. We are in the early stages of expanding into the U.S. market, a market in which we have no development experience and which may require us to spend significant resources, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to succeed in the U.S. market or in other markets into which we expand. While our primary focus continues to be residential real estate markets in high growth cities in China, in 2012 we expanded to the U.S. market and have opportunistically secured three real estate properties. Two of these projects were acquired for resale and were sold out in early 2015. The other project is an on-going residential ground-up development project in Brooklyn, New York (named “New York Oosten”). We are in the early stage of expanding into the U.S. and there can be no assurance that we will be able to succeed in the U.S. market. We have limited experience in the U.S. real estate market and may not be able to develop and implement an effective property development process appropriate for the U.S. market. In addition, given our limited experience in the U.S. market, it may be difficult for us to accurately forecast our future revenues and expenses related to existing and future projects in the U.S. Our ability to locate appropriate future projects in the U.S. and generate future revenues from such projects may require us to expend significant capital and management resources. In addition, our ability to develop a successful U.S. property developments business will depend on a number of factors outside of our control, including the status of the U.S. economy in general and in our target markets, consumer confidence levels, unemployment levels, interest rates and the ability of potential purchasers to obtain mortgage financing. Future increase in interest rates, decreased availability of mortgage financing or of certain mortgage programs, higher down payment requirements or increased monthly mortgage costs may lead to reduced demand by potential purchasers for any properties we may develop in the U.S. Moreover, for the New York Oosten project, according to local laws and regulations, pre-sale proceeds before units title conveyance cannot be used to finance project construction, We plan to finance its development through internal funds and bank loans, causing us to utilize more of our own funds to undertake larger construction debt obligation and to bear higher borrowing costs. 10 Furthermore, any change in federal income tax laws that increase the effective costs of owning a home would have an adverse effect on the demand for homes in the U.S. which could negatively affect any properties we may develop in the U.S. Current U.S. tax laws generally permit significant expenses associated with owning a home, principally mortgage interest expenses and real estate taxes, to be deducted for the purposes of calculating an individual's U.S. federal and, in some cases, state taxable income. Various proposals have been publicly discussed to limit mortgage interest deductions and to limit the exclusion of gain from the sale of a principal residence. If any such proposals were enacted without offsetting provisions, the after-tax costs of owning a home in the U.S. would increase for many potential customers. Enactment of any such proposals may have an adverse effect on the homebuilding industry in general, as the loss of or reduction of homeowner tax deductions could decrease the demands for new homes. In 2014, we acquired 100% share of a Malaysian company, which owns offshore landfill development rights for a total area of 170 acres (approximately 687,966 square meters). While we plan to allocate US$50 million for land reclamation costs in total, we have no development experience in Malaysia, nor have we ever engaged in landfill reclamation projects. All of our prior operations have involved real estate development undertaken on raw land, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the required landfill reclamation. Moreover, given our lack of prior experience in Malaysia, it also may be difficult for us to develop and implement an effective property development process appropriate for the Malaysian market, to accurately forecast our future revenues and expenses related to projects in Malaysia, and we could be required to expend significant capital and management resources to develop and generate future revenues from such projects. We may be unable to acquire desired development sites at commercially reasonable costs. Our revenue depends on the completion and sale of our projects, which in turn depends on our ability to acquire development sites. Our land costs are a major component of our cost of real estate sales and increases in such costs could diminish our gross margin. In China, the PRC government controls the supply of land and regulates land sales and transfers in the secondary market. As a result, the policies of the PRC government, including those related to land supply and urban planning, affect our ability to acquire, and our costs of acquiring, land use rights for our projects. In recent years, the government has introduced various measures attempting to moderate investment in the property market in China. Although we believe that these measures are generally targeted at the luxury property market and speculative purchases of land and properties, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not introduce other measures in the future that would adversely affect our ability to obtain land for development. We currently acquire our development sites primarily by bidding for government land, supplemented in some instances by direct negotiations with local governments prior to land auctions. Under current regulations, land use rights acquired from government authorities for commercial and residential development purposes must be purchased through a public tender, auction or listing-for-sale. Competition in these bidding processes has resulted in higher land use rights costs for us over the past few years. In addition, we may not successfully obtain desired development sites due to the increasingly intense competition in the bidding processes. In the future, we may also need to acquire land use rights through acquisition, which could increase our costs. Moreover, the supply of potential development sites in any given city will diminish over time, and we may find it increasingly difficult to identify and acquire attractive development sites at commercially reasonable costs in the future. We may not be able to procure land successfully or receive expected return through our new land acquisition model. Since the second half of 2012, we have developed a new model to acquire land through direct negotiation with local governments prior to land auctions in response to local governments' need for funding undeveloped land preparation. Under the direct negotiation model, we enter into a framework cooperation agreement with the local government, pursuant to which we provide land planning advice to the local government with respect to a particular piece of undeveloped land that the government plans to develop. Based on the government's land development plan, the underlying land may be divided into several tranches to be developed on a tranche by tranche basis. Following the government's development plan, we will provide funding in terms of advances to the government for land preparation of a particular tranche approximately three to six months before the land auction for that tranche. The advance payment usually ranges from 20% to 50% of the estimated opening auction price. The final disposition of the tranche occurs through public auction. Pursuant to the framework cooperation agreement, if we successfully acquire the land through the auction, the advance payment will become part of the land transfer payment. If we fail to acquire the land, we will be refunded the advance payment with an annual interest rate of approximately 10% to 15%. We believe that under the direct negotiation model, we are often in better position to identify and undertake initial planning with respect to targeted parcels as a result of direct involvement in and interaction with the government regarding the development stage of undeveloped lands. We entered into three framework cooperation agreements with local governments in 2012, two such agreements in 2013, and one such agreement in 2014, all relating to prospective land parcel planning and preparation, pursuant to which we paid advances in the aggregate amount of US$44.5 million, US$333.1 million, and US$209.2 million respectively. These advances have been transferred to land cost where our auction bids were successful, or will be so transferred assuming future auction bids for the relevant parcels are successful. In 2013, we chose not to participate in the bidding for one parcel of land in Jiangsu Province through this negotiated land acquisition model and the advance payments for this parcel were refunded to us, with interest. In 2014, total US$131.5 million of the advance payments related to the remaining land parcels successfully acquired were transferred to land cost, including three parcels of land in Xingyang for the amount of US$27.1 million and two parcels of land in Xi’an for US$104.4 million. 11 The land preparation process may be delayed after we have provided an advance payment, placing undue burden on our cash flow. In addition, as the procurement of land is eventually conducted through the standard auction process, we may not be able to successfully acquire the land for which we have provided advance payment. In that case, we may have lost other opportunities for which we could have deployed the funds used to make the advance payment. If we fail to acquire any land for which we have made an advance payment, we cannot assure you that we will be able to receive the expected return on the advance payment or that there will not be any delay in receiving the refund. Furthermore, any change in government regulations direct negotiation with the government could restrict our use of this business model in the future. We rely on third-party contractors. Substantially all of our project construction and related work are outsourced to third-party contractors. We are exposed to risks that the performance of our contractors may not meet our level of standards or specifications. Negligence, delay or poor work quality by contractors may result in defects in our buildings or residential units, which could in turn cause us to suffer financial losses, harm our reputation or expose us to third-party claims. If the performance of any third party contractor is not satisfactory or is delayed, we may need to replace such contractor or take other actions to remedy the situation, which could adversely affect the cost and construction progress of our projects. Moreover, the completion of our property developments may be delayed. In addition, we work with multiple contractors on different projects and we cannot guarantee that we can effectively monitor their work at all times. Although our construction and other contracts contain provisions designed to protect us, we may be unable to successfully enforce these rights and, even if we are able to successfully enforce these rights, the third-party contractors may not have sufficient financial resources to compensate us. Moreover, the contractors may undertake projects from other property developers, engage in risky undertakings or encounter financial or other difficulties, such as supply shortages, labor disputes or work accidents, which may cause delays in the completion of our property projects or increases in our costs. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we experienced three projects’ late delivery caused by contractors' failure to meet with applicable quality standards and incurred US$9.9 million in compensation to our customers. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we additionally incurred US$1.6 million in compensation to our customers for one late delivery project from 2012; no other projects experienced late delivery in 2013 or in 2014. In addition, consistent with what we believe is the customary industry practice in China, our contractors typically do not maintain insurance coverage on our properties under construction. We cannot assure you that we will not have similar incidents or uninsured losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to complete our property developments on time or at all. The progress and costs for a development project can be adversely affected by many factors, including, without limitation: ·delays in obtaining necessary licenses, permits or approvals from government agencies or authorities; ·shortages of materials, equipment, contractors and skilled labor or increased labor or raw material costs; ·disputes with our third-party contractors; ·failure by our third-party contractors to comply with our designs, specifications or standards; 12 ·difficult geological situations or other geotechnical issues; ·onsite labor disputes or work accidents; and ·natural catastrophes or adverse weather conditions, including strong winds, storms, floods, and earthquakes. Any construction delays, or failure to complete a project according to our planned specifications or budget, may delay our property sales, which could adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and our reputation. Under PRC laws and regulations and our pre-sale contracts, we are required to compensate purchasers for late delivery of or failure to complete our pre-sold units. If the delay extends beyond the contractually specified period, the purchasers may become entitled to terminate the pre-sale contracts and claim damages. In 2012, we experienced late delivery of three projects and had to pay compensation to customers as a result. We also incurred additional customer compensation expenses in 2013 with respect to one of the 2012 late delivery projects. Proceeds from pre-sale of our properties are an important source of financing for our property developments. Under PRC laws, we are not permitted to commence pre-sales until we have completed certain stages of the construction process for a project. Consequently, a significant delay in the construction of a project could restrict our ability to pre-sell our properties, which could extend the recovery period for our capital outlay. This, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our cash flow, business and financial position. Changes of laws and regulations with respect to pre-sales may adversely affect our cash flow position and performance. We depend on cash flows from pre-sale of properties as an important source of funding for our property development projects. Under current PRC laws and regulations, property developers must fulfill certain conditions before they can commence pre-sale of the relevant properties and may only use pre-sale proceeds to finance the construction of the specific developments. On August 5, 2005, the PBOC issued a report entitled “2004 Real Estate Financing Report,” in which it recommended that the practice of pre-selling uncompleted properties be discontinued because, according to the report, such activity creates significant market risks and generates transactional irregularities. This and other PBOC recommendations have not been adopted by the PRC government and have no enforceability. However, there can be no assurance that the PRC government will not ban the practice of pre-selling uncompleted properties or implement further restrictions on the pre-sale of properties, such as imposing additional conditions for a pre-sale permit or further restrictions on the use of pre-sale proceeds or that cities will not voluntarily suspend or restrict pre-sales. For example, the Housing and Construction Department in Guangxi Province (in which we do not have any operations) announced in 2010 that it was considering suspending pre-sales of commercial properties, starting in Nanning municipality on a trial basis. Any measures prohibiting or further restricting pre-sales by the PRC government or province or city government affecting cities in which we operate will adversely affect our cash flow position and force us to seek alternative sources of funding for much of our property development business. The results of our operations may fluctuate from period to period as we derive our revenue principally from the sale of properties and we rely on our unsold inventory of units. We derive the majority of our revenue from the sale of properties that we have developed. Our results of operations tend to fluctuate from period to period due to a combination of factors, including the overall schedule of our property development projects, the timing of the sale of properties that we have developed, the size of our land bank, our revenue recognition policies and changes in costs and expenses, such as land acquisition and construction costs. The number of properties that we can develop or complete during any particular period is limited due to the size of our land bank, the substantial capital required for land acquisition and construction, as well as the development periods required before positive cash flows may be generated. We recognize our real estate revenue based on the full accrual method and the percentage of completion method, both of which require us to estimate total costs and revenue which may be reviewed or revised periodically and may result in changes from period to period. In addition, several properties that we have developed or that are under development are large scale and developed in multiple phases over the course of one to several years. The selling prices of the residential units in larger scale property developments tend to change over time, which may impact our sales proceeds and, accordingly, our revenues for any given period. 13 The recognition of our real estate revenue and costs is dependent upon our estimation of our total project revenue and costs. We recognize our real estate revenue based on the full accrual method and the percentage of completion method depending on the estimated project construction period and timing of collection of sales prices. See “ITEM 5. OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS - Critical Accounting Policies.” Under both methods, revenue and costs are calculated based on an estimation of total project costs and total project revenues, which are revised on a regular basis as the work progresses. Any material deviation between actual and estimated total project revenues and costs may result in an increase, a reduction or an elimination of reported revenues or costs from period to period, which will affect our gross profit and net income. We face risks related to our back-to-back loans. Since expanding our operations into the U.S. market in 2012, we became and will continue to be in increasing need for U.S. dollar financings with respect to project developments and future expansions. We currently satisfy our U.S. dollar denominated financing requirements through four ways: dividends distributions from our PRC subsidiaries, which are subject to 10% withholding tax payment, back-to-back loan arrangements, high yield bond issuances and construction loan financing from U.S. local banks. Under back-to-back loan arrangements, our PRC subsidiaries make deposits denominated in RMB into banks in China as collateral to request the banks in China to issue standby letters denominated in U.S. dollars in the same amount as the RMB collateral to their outbound branches, and our project companies outside the PRC enter into loans denominated in U.S. dollars with such outbound branches in the same amount specified in such standby letters Pursuant to the Provisions on the Administration of Foreign Exchange for Cross-border Guarantee issued by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, effective June 1, 2014, SAFE registration requirements apply to overseas back-to-back loan arrangements and the use of proceeds of such loans must comply with certain requirements. Any change in laws or regulations to restrict or forbid back-to-back loan transactions in the future may adversely affect our non-PRC companies' financing. In addition, we are exposed to exchange rate fluctuation and foreign exchange control risks under the current back-to-back loan model, which may adversely affect our business condition and results of operation. We are subject to certain restrictive covenants and risks normally associated with debt financing which may limit our ability to take certain corporate actions, including incurring additional debt, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are subject to certain restrictive covenants in our loan agreements with certain commercial banks. Certain loan agreements contain covenants providing that, among other matters, we or our relevant PRC operating subsidiaries may not enter into mergers, joint ventures or restructurings, decrease our registered share capital, transfer material assets, including shares of subsidiaries, engage in material investments, liquidate, change our shareholding, or distribute dividends without the relevant lenders’ prior written consent or unless we fully settle the outstanding amounts under the relevant loan agreements. In addition, certain of our loan agreements contain cross default clauses. If any cross default occurs, these banks are entitled to accelerate payment of all or any part of the loan under their relevant loan agreements and to enforce all or any of the security for such loans. Future bank borrowings may contain similar restrictions or cross-default provisions. Our outstanding debt securities also contain certain financial and other covenants that restrict our ability to take other corporate actions. The indentures governing our 13.25% Senior Notes issued in May 2013 (the “May 2018 Senior Secured Notes”) and our 13% Senior Notes issued in December 2013 (the “June 2019 Senior Secured Notes”) contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our and our restricted subsidiaries' (as defined in the relevant indenture) ability to incur additional debt or issue preferred stock, make certain payments or investments, pay dividends, purchase or redeem capital stock, sell assets, or make certain other payments, subject to certain qualifications and exemptions and satisfaction of certain conditions. As a result of any such covenants in current or future financing documents, our ability to pay dividends or other distributions on our common shares and ADSs may be limited. Such covenants may also restrict our ability to raise additional capital in the future through bank borrowings, mortgage financings, and debt and equity issuances and may restrict our ability to engage in some transactions that we believe to be of benefit to us. The occurrence of any of the above events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results, as well as cash flow and cash that is available for distributions. 14 In addition, our obligations under the May 2018 Senior Secured Notes, the June 2019 Senior Secured Notes are guaranteed by various of our subsidiaries, and the guarantee by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Xinyuan Real Estate, Ltd., or Xinyuan Ltd, which indirectly holds all of our assets and operations in China is secured by a pledge of our shares of the other guarantor subsidiaries (other than the shares of Xinyuan International (HK) Property Co., Limited). If we default under any of the Notes, the holders thereof may enforce their claims against those shares. In such an event, the holders of the Notes could gain ownership of the shares of Xinyuan Ltd., and, as a result, own and control all of our subsidiaries in China. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China, and if we default under any of the Notes, we could lose control or ownership of our assets and operations in China. We rely on our key management members. We depend on the services provided by key management members. Competition for management talent is intense in the property development sector. In particular, we are highly dependent on Mr. Yong Zhang, our founder and Chairman, Mr. Xinqi Wang, our Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Yong Cui, our President. We do not maintain key employee insurance. In the event that we lose the services of any key management member, we may be unable to identify and recruit suitable successors in a timely manner or at all, which will adversely affect our business and operations. Moreover, we may need to employ and retain more management personnel to support an expansion into high growth cities on a much larger geographical scale as well as our expansion in the U.S. and other areas. If we cannot attract and retain suitable personnel, especially at the management level, our business and future growth will be adversely affected. We provide guarantees for the mortgage loans of our customers which expose us to risks of default by our customers. We pre-sell properties before actual completion and, in accordance with industry practice, our customers’ mortgage banks require us to guarantee our customers’ mortgage loans. Typically, we provide guarantees to PRC banks with respect to loans procured by the purchasers of our properties for the total mortgage loan amount until the completion of the registration of the mortgage with the relevant mortgage registration authorities, which generally occurs within six to 12 months after the purchasers take possession of the relevant properties. In line with what we believe to be industry practice, we rely on the credit evaluation conducted by mortgagee banks and do not conduct our own independent credit checks on our customers. The mortgagee banks typically require us to maintain, as restricted cash, up to 10% of the mortgage proceeds paid to us as security for our obligations under such guarantees. If a purchaser defaults on its payment obligations during the term of our guarantee, the mortgagee bank may deduct the delinquent mortgage payment from the security deposit. If the delinquent mortgage payments exceed the security deposit, the banks may require us to pay the excess amount. If multiple purchasers default on their payment obligations, we will be required to make significant payments to the banks to satisfy our guarantee obligations. Factors such as a significant decrease in housing prices, increase in interest rates or the occurrence of natural catastrophes, among others, could result in a purchaser defaulting on its mortgage payment obligations. If we are unable to resell the properties underlying defaulted mortgages on a timely basis or at prices higher than the amounts of our guarantees and related expenses, we will suffer financial losses. We paid, US$273,987, US$359,551 and US$1,478,386 to satisfy guarantee obligations related to customer defaults for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014. As of December 31, 2013 and 2014, our outstanding guarantees in respect of our customers’ mortgage loans amounted to US$1,137.9 million and US$1,305.6 million respectively. If substantial defaults by our customers occur and we are called upon to honor our guarantees, our financial condition, cash flow and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our level of indebtedness could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, diminish our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to explore business opportunities. As of December 31, 2014, the outstanding balance of our total indebtedness amounted to US$1,508.8 million. Our level of indebtedness could have an adverse effect on us. For example, it could: ·require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations as well as the proceeds of certain financings and asset dispositions to fund payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; 15 ·Make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt securities and other indebtedness; ·increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; ·limit our flexibility in planning for, or relating to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate; ·limit our ability to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future or increase the cost of such funding; ·restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, exploring business opportunities or selling assets; ·place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any competitors that have less debt; and ·make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which in turn is dependent on various factors. For a discussion of these factors, see Item 5, "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - A. Operating Results - Principal Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations." Our financing costs are subject to changes in interest rates. The rates of interest payable on our long-term bank loans are adjustable based on the range of 100% to 150% of the PBOC benchmark rate, which fluctuates from time to time. The PBOC benchmark rate for a one year loan was 5.6% as of November 22, 2014. As of December 31, 2014, the principal amount of our aggregate outstanding variable rate debt was US$435.7 million. A hypothetical 1% increase in annual interest rates would increase our interest expenses by US$4.4 million based on our debt level at December 31, 2014. In connection with our expansion in to the U.S. beginning in 2012, we anticipate entering into U.S. dollar denominated loans in the future, which will subject us to additional interest rate fluctuation risks, including fluctuations of London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR. We are subject to potential environmental liability. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws and regulations that apply to any given development site vary significantly according to the site’s location and environmental condition, the present and former uses of the site and the nature of the adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and can prohibit or severely restrict project development activity in environmentally-sensitive regions or areas. Although the environmental investigations conducted by local environmental authorities have not revealed any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations to date, it is possible that these investigations did not reveal all environmental liabilities and that there are material environmental liabilities of which we are unaware. We cannot assure you that future environmental investigations will not reveal material environmental liability. Also, we cannot assure you that the PRC or U.S. government will not change the existing laws and regulations or impose additional or stricter laws or regulations, the compliance of which may cause us to incur significant capital expenditure. See “