ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent in the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The Company’s business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption for more than a year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. As a consequence of the recession that the United States now finds itself in, business activity across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our businesses: • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; • A decrease in the value of our loans and investments; • An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; • An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. • An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans. Overall, during the past year, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. 12 Current market developments may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Declines in the housing market during the prior year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant write-downs of asset values by us and other financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that the EESA and other recently enacted government programs will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the EESA. The U.S. Treasury and federal banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the CPP, in which the Company participated. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC’s TLGP. On February 10, 2009, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury announced the Financial Stability Plan, which earmarks the second $350 billion originally authorized under the EESA. The Financial Stability Plan is intended to, among other things, make capital available to financial institutions, purchase certain legacy loans and assets from financial institutions, restart securitization markets for loans to consumers and businesses and relieve certain pressures on the housing market, including the reduction of mortgage payments and interest rates. In addition, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), which was signed into law on February 17, 2009 and amends the ESSA includes, among other things, extensive new restrictions on the compensation arrangements of financial institutions participating in the CPP. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA, as supplemented by the Financial Stability Plan, the ARRA and other programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA, the ARRA, the Financial Stability Plan and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The EESA, ARRA and the Financial Stability Plan are relatively new initiatives and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. There can be no assurances as to the effects that any further changes will have on the effectiveness of the government’s efforts to stabilize the credit markets or on our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. 13 The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA may adversely affect the Company’s ability to retain its highest performing employees. In the case of a company such as us that received CPP funds, the ARRA contains restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to the Company’s senior executive officers. Depending upon the limitations placed on incentive compensation by the final regulations issued under the ARRA, it is possible that the Company may be unable to create a compensation structure that permits the Company to retain its highest performing employees and/or attract new employees of a high caliber. If this were to occur, the Company’s businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company is subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state law. Current and future legislation and the policies established by federal and state regulatory authorities will affect the Company’s operations. The Company is subject to supervision and periodic examination by the Federal Reserve and the Commissioner. The Bank, as a state chartered non-member commercial bank, receives regulatory scrutiny from the FDIC and the Commissioner. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the protection of depositors, may limit our growth and the return to you as an investor in the Company, by restricting the Company’s activities, such as: • the payment of dividends to shareholders; • possible transactions with or acquisitions by other institutions; • desired investments; • loans and interest rates; • the level of its allowance for credit losses; • imposing higher capital requirements; • interest rates paid on deposits; • the possible expansion of branch offices; and • the ability to provide other services. The Company cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on its business. Given the current disruption in the financial markets and regulatory initiatives that are likely to be proposed by the new administration and Congress, new regulations and laws that may affect us are increasingly likely. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. We cannot assure you that such modifications or new laws will not adversely affect us. Our regulatory position is discussed in greater detail under Item 1. “Business—Supervision and Regulation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the Company will be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. 14 We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital, including, but not limited to, inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. We cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of the Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. The Company relies on dividends from the Bank for most of its revenue. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank. It receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends received from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Company’s common and preferred stock, and interest and principal on its outstanding debt securities. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to service debt, pay obligations, or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1 “Business — Supervision and Regulation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company may have higher credit losses than the Company’s allowance for credit losses. The Bank maintains an allowance for credit losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for credit losses charged to expense that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that will be incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated credit losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific loan risks; credit loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current loan risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Bank’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Bank’s allowance for credit losses and may require an increase in the provision for credit losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for credit losses, the Bank will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for credit losses. Any increases in the allowance for credit losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s growth strategy may not be successful. As a strategy, the Company seeks to increase the size of its franchise by pursuing business development opportunities. The Company can provide no assurance that it will be successful in increasing the volume of the Company’s loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms, expanding its asset base while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with this growth strategy. There can be no assurance that any expansion will be profitable or that the Company will be able to sustain its growth, either through internal growth or through successful expansions of its banking markets, or that the Company will be able to maintain capital sufficient to support its continued growth. 15 The Bank is subject to interest rate risk. The Bank’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Bank’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Bank receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Bank’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Bank’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of certain of the Bank’s interest-rate sensitive assets and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Bank’s net interest income and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. In addition, there are costs associated with the Bank’s risk management techniques, and these costs could be material. Fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable and, therefore, there can be no assurances of the Bank’s ability to continue to maintain a consistent, positive spread between the interest earned on the Bank’s earning assets and the interest paid on the Bank’s interest-bearing liabilities. The Company is subject to operational risk and an operational failure could materially adversely affect its businesses. Operational risk refers to the risk of loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and/or systems. Operational risk also refers to the risk that external events, such as external changes (e.g., natural disasters, terrorist attacks and/or health epidemics), failures or frauds, will result in losses to its businesses. The Bank’s business is highly dependent on its ability to process, on a daily basis; a large number of transactions and the transactions the Bank processes have become increasingly complex. The Bank performs the functions required to operate its business either by itself or through agreements with third parties. The Bank rely on the ability of its employees, its internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process high numbers of transactions. In the event of a breakdown or improper operation of its or third-party’s systems or improper action by third parties or employees, the Bank could suffer financial loss, an impairment to its liquidity, a disruption of its businesses, regulatory sanctions and damage to its reputation. If the Bank loses key employees with significant business contacts in its market areas, its business may suffer. The Bank’s success is largely dependent on the personal contacts of our officers and employees in its market areas. If the Bank loses key employees temporarily or permanently, this could have a material adverse effect on the business. The Bank could be particularly hurt if its key employees go to work for competitors. The Bank’s future success depends on the continued contributions of its existing senior management personnel, many of whom have significant local experience and contacts in its market areas. The Bank has employment agreements or non-competition agreements with several of its senior and executive officers in an attempt to partially mitigate this risk. The Company’s operating results and financial condition would likely suffer if there is deterioration in the general economic condition of the areas in which the Bank does business. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Bank primarily provides services to customers located in the Piedmont Triad Region in North Carolina. Because the Bank’s lending and deposit-gathering activities are concentrated in this market, the Bank will be affected by the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. Adverse developments in local industries have had and could continue to have a negative affect on the Bank’s financial condition and results of operations. Even though the Bank’s customers’ business and financial interest may extend well beyond the Bank’s primary market area, adverse economic conditions that affect this market area could reduce the Bank’s growth rate, affect the ability of the Bank’s customers to repay their loans and generally affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A significant decline in general economic conditions in the Bank’s market areas, or the entire country, caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors which are beyond the Bank’s control would also impact these local economic conditions and could have an adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 16 We have implemented anti-takeover devices that could make it more difficult for another company to acquire us, even though such an acquisition may increase shareholder value. State and federal law and the Company’s articles of incorporation and bylaws make it difficult for anyone to acquire us without approval of its Board of Directors and shareholders. The Company’s articles of incorporation require a supermajority vote of two-thirds of its outstanding common stock in order to affect a sale or merger of the Company in certain circumstances. The Company’s bylaws also divide the Board of Directors into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms with approximately one-third of the Board of Directors elected at each annual meeting of shareholders. The classification of directors makes it more difficult for shareholders to change the composition of the Board of Directors. As a result, at least two annual meetings of shareholders would be required for the shareholders to change a majority of the directors, whether or not a change in the Board of Directors would be beneficial and whether or not a majority of shareholders believe that such a change would be desirable. Consequently, a takeover attempt may prove difficult, and shareholders may not realize the highest possible price for their securities. The Company is subject to security and operational risks related to the technology the Company uses that could result in a loss of customers, increased costs and other damages which could be material. The Company depends on data processing, software and communication and information exchange on a variety of platforms, networks and over the internet. Despite safeguards, the Company cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. Any failure or interruptions or breach of security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in its customer relationships, general ledger, deposits and servicing or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any such failures or difficulties could result in a loss of customer business, damage the Bank’s reputation, subject the Bank to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose the Bank to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC that are now applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. The Company has experienced, and it expects to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Company expects these rules and regulations to continue to increase its accounting, legal, and other costs, and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming, and costly. In the event that the Company is unable to achieve or maintain compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, it may be adversely affected. The Company is evaluating its internal control systems in order to allow management to report on, and its independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, its internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If the Company identifies significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting that it cannot remediate in a timely manner, or if the Company is unable to receive a positive attestation from its independent registered public accounting firm with respect to its internal control over financial reporting, the trading price of its common stock could decline, the Company’s ability to obtain any necessary equity or debt financing could suffer, and, if accepted for listing, its common stock could ultimately be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. In this event, the liquidity of the Company’s common stock would be severely limited and the market price of its common stock would likely decline significantly. In addition, the rules adopted as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could make it more difficult or more costly for the Company to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, which could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on its Board or as executive officers. 17 The Company faces strong competition in our market areas, which may limit our asset growth and profitability. The banking business in the Bank’s market areas is very competitive, and the level of competition facing the Bank may increase further, which may limit the Bank’s asset growth and/or profitability. The Company experiences competition in both lending and attracting deposits from other banks and nonbank financial institutions located within its market areas, some of which are significantly larger institutions and may have more financial resources than the Bank. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and local financial institutions within the Bank’s market areas. Additionally, various out-of-state banks have begun to enter or have announced plans to enter the market areas in which the Bank currently operates. Nonbank competitors for deposits and deposit-type accounts include savings associations, credit unions, savings banks, securities firms, money market funds, life insurance companies and the mutual funds industry. For loans, the Bank encounters competition from other banks, savings associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, small loan and credit card companies, credit unions, pension trusts, securities firms and major retail stores that offer competing financial services. Many of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Bank can offer. The Company’s recent operating results may not be indicative of its future operating results. The Company may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth. Because of its relatively small size and shorter operating history, it will be difficult for the Company to replicate its historical earnings growth as it continues to expand. Consequently, its historical results of operations will not necessarily be indicative of its future operations. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition, may also impede the Company’s ability to expand its market presence. If the Company experiences a significant decrease in its historical rate of growth, its results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected because a high percentage of its operating costs are fixed expenses. The Bank is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Bank may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Bank may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Bank to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Bank’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations of enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Bank’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Bank has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s CPP imposes restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock and access the equity capital markets. On January 30, 2009, we issued and sold Series A Preferred Stock and a Warrant to the U.S. Treasury as part of its CPP. Prior to January 30, 2012, unless we have redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to a third party, the Securities Purchase Agreement pursuant to which such securities were sold, among other things, limits the payment of dividends on our common stock without prior regulatory approval, limits our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based compensation awards), and grants the holders of such securities certain registration rights which, in certain circumstances, impose lock-up periods during which we would be unable to issue equity securities. In addition, unless we are able to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock during the first five years, the dividends on this capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5% to 9%. Depending on market conditions at the time, this increase in dividends could significantly impact our liquidity. See “Supervision and Regulation—U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program.” 18 The holder of the Bank’s junior subordinated debenture has rights that are senior to those of its common shareholders. The Company has supported its continued growth through the issuance of trust-preferred securities from the Trust and an accompanying sale of an $8.2 million junior subordinated debenture to the Trust. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of this Trust are conditionally guaranteed by the Bank. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debenture that the Bank issued to the Trust is senior to its shares of common stock. As a result, the Company and the Bank must make payments on the junior subordinated debenture before any dividends can be paid on the Company’s common stock and, in the event of its bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holder of the junior subordinated debenture must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on its common stock. The Bank has the right to defer distributions on the junior subordinated debenture (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on its common stock. Our common stock is not FDIC insured. Our common stock is not a savings or deposit account or other obligation of any bank and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental agency and is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, holders of the Company’s common stock may lose some or all of their investment. ITEM 1A. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 19 