ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this Form 10-K. The risk factors have been separated into three groups: (1) risks relating to our business, (2) risks relating to the separation of New 360 from Point.360, and (3) risks relating to our common stock. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company in each of these categories of risks. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Relating to Point.360’s Business We have a history of losses, and we may incur losses in the future. Point.360 had losses in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and 2008 and in each of the four fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 due, in part, to increased price competition, the cost of being a publicly traded company and a number of unusual charges. There is no assurance as to future profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Old Point.360 previously breached its credit agreements, and we may do so in the future. Due to lower operating cash amounts resulting from reduced sales levels in prior years and the consequential net losses, Old Point.360 breached certain covenants of its credit facility. The breaches were temporarily cured based on amendments and forbearance agreements among Old Point.360 and the banks which called for, among other provisions, scheduled payments to reduce amounts owed to the banks to the permitted borrowing base. 7 Although we were in a cash positive position as of June 30, 2008 and expect to be for the foreseeable future, if we continue to incur losses in the future as a separate company, there is a risk that we will default under financial covenants contained in any new credit agreements and/or will not be able to pay off revolving or term loans when due. If a default condition exists in future banking arrangements, all amounts that may be outstanding under the new agreements will be due and payable which could materially and adversely affect our business. We may be unable to compete effectively in a highly competitive marketplace. The post-production industry is a highly competitive, service-oriented business. In general, we do not have long-term or exclusive service agreements with our customers. Business is acquired on a purchase order basis and is based primarily on customer satisfaction with reliability, timeliness, quality and price. We compete with a variety of post-production firms some of which have a national presence and, to a lesser extent, the in-house post-production operations of our major motion picture studio customers. Some of these firms, and all of the studios, have greater financial marketing resources and have achieved a higher level of brand recognition than we have. In the future, we may not be able to compete effectively against these competitors merely on the basis of reliability, timeliness, quality and price or otherwise. We may also face competition from companies in related markets that could offer similar or superior services to those offered by us. We believe that an increasingly competitive environment as evidenced by recent price pressure and some related loss of work and the possibility that customers may utilize in-house capabilities to a greater extent could lead to a loss of market share or additional price reductions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We would be adversely affected by the loss of key customers. Although we have an active client list of approximately 1,900 customers, five motion picture studios and and/or their affiliates accounted for approximately 52%, 58%, 56% and 52% of our revenues in calendar years 2005 and 2006, and the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Twentieth Century Fox (and affiliates) was the only customer which accounted for more than 10% of sales in any of the periods, or 26% and 33% in calendar years 2005 and 2006, and 34% and 26% in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and 2008, respectively. If one or more of these companies were to stop using our services, our business could be adversely affected. Because we derive substantially all of our revenue from clients in the entertainment industry, our financial condition, results of operations and prospects could also be adversely affected by an adverse change in conditions which impact those industries. Our expansion strategy may fail. Our growth strategy involves both internal development and expansion through acquisitions. We currently have no agreements or commitments to acquire any company or business. Even though Point.360 completed a number of acquisitions in the past, the most recent of which was in March 2007, we cannot be sure additional acceptable acquisitions will be available or that we will be able to reach mutually agreeable terms to purchase acquisition targets, or that we will be able to profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate such additional businesses without substantial costs, delays or other problems. Acquisitions may involve a number of special risks including: adverse effects on our reported operating results (including the amortization of acquired intangible assets), diversion of management’s attention and unanticipated problems or legal liabilities. In addition, we may require additional funding to finance future acquisitions. We cannot be sure that we will be able to secure acquisition financing on acceptable terms or at all. We may also use working capital or equity, or raise financing through equity offerings or the incurrence of debt, in connection with the funding of any acquisition. Some or all of these risks could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects or could result in dilution to our shareholders. In addition, to the extent that consolidation becomes more prevalent in the industry, the prices for attractive acquisition candidates could increase substantially. We may not be able to effect any such transactions. Additionally, if we are able to complete such transactions they may prove to be unprofitable. The geographic expansion of our customers may result in increased demand for services in certain regions where we currently do not have post-production facilities. To meet this demand, we may subcontract. However, we have not entered into any formal negotiations or definitive agreements for this purpose. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effect such transactions or that any such transactions will prove to be profitable. 8 If we acquire any entities, we may have to finance a large portion of the anticipated purchase price and/or refinance then existing credit agreements. The cost of any new financing may be higher than our then-existing credit facilities. Future earnings and cash flow may be negatively impacted if any acquired entity does not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to offset the increased costs. We are operating in a changing environment that may adversely affect our business. In prior years, we experienced industry consolidation, changing technologies and increased regulation, all of which resulted in new and increased responsibilities for management personnel and placed, and continues to place, increased demands on our management, operational and financial systems and resources. To accommodate these circumstances, compete effectively and manage future growth, we will be required to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems, and to expand, train, motivate and manage our work force. We cannot be sure that our personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be unable to adapt our business to changing technological requirements. Although we intend to utilize the most efficient and cost-effective technologies available for telecine, high definition formatting, editing, coloration and delivery of audio and video content as they develop, we cannot be sure that we will be able to adapt to such standards in a timely fashion or at all. We believe our future growth will depend in part on our ability to add to these services and to add customers in a timely and cost-effective manner. We cannot be sure we will be successful in offering such services to existing customers or in obtaining new customers for these services. We intend to rely on third-party vendors for the development of these technologies, and there is no assurance that such vendors will be able to develop such technologies in a manner that meets our needs and the needs of our customers. The loss of key personnel would adversely affect our business. We are dependent on the efforts and abilities of certain senior management, particularly those of Haig S. Bagerdjian, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss or interruption of the services of key members of management could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects if a suitable replacement is not promptly obtained. Mr. Bagerdjian beneficially owns approximately 29% of Point.360’s outstanding stock. Although we have severance agreements with Mr. Bagerdjian and certain key executives, we cannot be sure that either Mr. Bagerdjian or other executives will remain with Point.360. In addition, our success depends to a significant degree upon the continuing contributions of, and on our ability to attract and retain, qualified management, sales, operations, marketing and technical personnel. The competition for qualified personnel is intense and the loss of any such persons, as well as the failure to recruit additional key personnel in a timely manner, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel for the development of our business. We may be unable to meet the demands of our customers. Our business is dependent on our ability to meet the current and future demands of our customers, which demands include reliability, timeliness, quality and price. Any failure to do so, whether or not caused by factors within our control could result in losses to such clients. Although we disclaim any liability for such losses, there is no assurance that claims would not be asserted and dissatisfied customers may refuse to place further orders with the Company in the event of a significant occurrence of lost elements, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Although we maintain insurance against business interruption, such insurance may not be adequate to protect us from significant loss in these circumstances and there is no assurance that a major catastrophe (such as an earthquake or other natural disaster) would not result in a prolonged interruption of our business. In addition, our ability to deliver services within the time periods requested by customers depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside of our control, including equipment failure, work stoppages by package delivery vendors or interruption in services by telephone, internet or satellite service providers. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate in the future. Our operating results have varied in the past, and may vary in the future, depending on factors such as sales volume fluctuations due to seasonal buying patterns, the timing of new product and service introductions, the timing of revenue recognition upon the completion of longer term projects, increased competition, timing of acquisitions, general economic factors and other factors. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our operating results have historically been significantly influenced by the volume of business from the motion picture industry, which is an industry that is subject to seasonal and cyclical downturns, and, occasionally, work stoppages by actors, writers and others. For example, the 12,000-member Writer’s Guild of America began a strike on November 5, 2007 which affected portions of our business. In any period our revenues are subject to variation based on changes in the volume and mix of services performed during the period. It is possible that in a future quarter our operating results will be below the expectations of equity research analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock would likely be materially adversely affected. 9 Risks Relating to the Separation of the Company from Old Point.360 We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from our separation from Old Point.360. As a stand-alone, independent public company, we believe that our business will benefit from, among other things, allowing our management to design and implement corporate policies and strategies that are based primarily on the characteristics of our business, allowing us to focus our financial resources wholly on our own operations and implement and maintain a capital structure designed to meet our own specific needs. However, by separating from Old Point.360, there is a risk that we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than we would have been were we still a part of Old Point.360. As part of Old Point.360, we were able to enjoy certain benefits from Old Point.360’s operating diversity, purchasing and borrowing leverage; available capital for investments and opportunities to pursue integrated strategies with Old Point.360’s other businesses. As such, we may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as a stand alone, independent post-production company. We have no operating history as a separate public company, and our historical and pro forma financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a separate publicly traded company, and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical and pro forma financial information included in this Form 10-K does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the following factors: · Prior to our August 14, 2007 separation from Old Point.360, our business has been operated by Old Point.360 as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. Old Point.360 performed various corporate functions for the post-production business, including, but not limited to, tax administration, certain governance functions (including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) and external reporting. Our historical and pro forma financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Old Point.360 for these and similar functions based on the relationship of our sales to sales of Old Point.360 for certain administrative functions necessary to complete the sales cycle (sales, personnel, billing, accounting, etc.), specific balance sheet accounts comprising long-lived assets (term loan interest expense) and net working capital (revolving loan interest expense), and other measurements. We believe that these allocations are comparable to the expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate publicly traded company, although there is a risk that we may incur higher expenses as an independent company. · Prior to our separation from Old Point.360, our business has been integrated with the other businesses of Point.360. Historically, we have shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. The loss of these benefits could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition following the completion of the separation. · Generally, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, have historically been satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of Old Point.360. Without the opportunity to obtain financing from Old Point.360, we may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. · Subsequent to the completion of our separation from Old Point.360, the cost of capital for our business may be higher than Old Point.360’s cost of capital prior to our separation because Old Point.360 operating results were higher than what ours are contemplated to be following the separation. 10 · Other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of our operating as a company separate from Old Point.360. We may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent company, and we may experience increased costs after our separation from Old Point.360 or as a result of the separation. Following the completion of our separation from Old Point.360, the costs of being a public entity will be spread over a lower revenue base, which may negatively affect operating results. We will be responsible for paying certain liabilities incurred by Old Point.360 prior to the date of our separation from Old Point.360. Pursuant to agreements between us and DG FastChannel, Inc. (“DG”), we assumed responsibility for the payment of various liabilities that were incurred by Old Point.360 prior to the date of our separation from Old Point.360, including accounts payable and other expenses not exclusively related to Old Point.360’s ads business, taxes for periods prior to the separation date and other liabilities of Old Point.360, including contingent liabilities whose amount is not yet known, arising out of the operation of Old Point.360’s business (other than the ads business) during the period prior to the separation. Although we do not currently have any knowledge that the IRS, other governmental agencies or third parties intend to file lawsuits or initiate proceedings with respect to the operation of Old Point.360’s business prior to the separation date, that possibility exists and the payment by us of any such contingent liabilities for which we are responsible could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. Risks Relating to the Company’s Common Stock A trading market that will provide adequate liquidity for our common stock may not develop. In addition, the market price of our shares may fluctuate widely. Our common stock began public trading on August 14, 2007. There is no assurance that an active trading market will be sustained in the future. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: · our business profile and market capitalization may not fit the investment objectives of our shareholders and, as a result, our shareholders may sell our shares after the distribution; · a shift in our investor base; · our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to the seasonality of our business and other factors related to our business; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; · our ability to meet earnings estimates of shareholders; · the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; · overall market fluctuations; and · general economic conditions. 11 Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Investors may be unable to accurately value our common stock. Investors often value companies based on the stock prices and results of operations of other comparable companies. Currently, no public post-production company exists that is directly comparable to our size, scale and service offerings. As such, investors may find it difficult to accurately value our common stock, which may cause our common stock price to trade below our true value. Your percentage ownership in the Company may be diluted in the future. Your percentage ownership in the Company may be diluted in the future because of equity awards that have been or may be granted to our directors, officers and employees. We have adopted the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan, which provides for the grant of equity based awards, including restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock options, stock appreciation rights and other equity-based awards to our directors, officers and other employees, advisors and consultants. Our shareholder rights agreement and ability to issue preferred stock may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company that would benefit our shareholders. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including voting rights, without any further vote or action by the Company’s shareholders. Although we have no current plans to issue any other shares of preferred stock, the rights of the holders of common stock would be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change in control of the Company that would be beneficial to our shareholders. On the date that the Company’s shares were distributed to Old Point.360 shareholders, each shareholder also received one preferred share purchase right for each share of our common stock received by the shareholder. The rights will be attached to the common stock and will trade separately and be exercisable only in the event that a person or group acquires or announces the intent to acquire 20% or more of our common stock. Each right will entitle shareholders to buy one one-hundredth of a share of a new series of junior participating preferred stock at an exercise price of $10. If we are acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction after a person has acquired 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, each right will entitle its holder to purchase, at the right’s then-current exercise price, a number of the acquiring company’s common shares having a market value of twice such price. In addition, if a person or group acquires 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, each right will entitle its holder (other than such person or members of such group) to purchase, at the right’s then-current exercise price, a number of Point.360 common shares having a market value of twice such price. Before a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our common stock, the rights are redeemable for $.0001 per right at the option of the Board of Directors. Although our shareholder rights agreement is intended to encourage anyone seeking to acquire the Company to negotiate with the Board prior to attempting a takeover, the rights agreement may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company that would be beneficial to our shareholders. We do not expect to pay dividends. We do not believe that we will have the financial strength to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. If we do not pay dividends, the price of our common stock that you receive in the distribution must appreciate for you to receive a gain on your investment in the Company. This appreciation may not occur. Our controlling shareholders may cause the Company to be operated in a manner that is not in the best interests of other shareholders. Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Haig S. Bagerdjian, beneficially owns approximately 29% of our common stock. The ex-spouse of R. Luke Stefanko, Old Point.360’s former President and Chief Executive Officer, owns approximately 12% of the common stock. By virtue of their stock ownership, Ms. Stefanko and Mr. Bagerdjian individually or together may be able to significantly influence the outcome of matters required to be submitted to a vote of shareholders, including (1) the election of the Board of Directors, (2) amendments to our Articles of Incorporation and (3) approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. The foregoing may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of the Company, including transactions in which the holders of common stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over current market prices. 12 ITEM 1. B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable ITEM 