Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a description of various factors that could materially affect our ability to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward-looking statements. Certain terms commonly used in the oil and natural gas industry and in this Report are defined above under the caption “Glossary.” In addition, all production and reserve volumes disclosed in this Report represent amounts net to us. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Our Business. We are a growth-oriented Delaware limited partnership formed on February 13, 2007 by Encore Acquisition Company (“EAC”) to acquire, exploit, and develop oil and natural gas properties and to acquire, own, and operate related assets. On September 17, 2007, we completed our initial public offering (“IPO”) of 9,000,000 common units, at a price to the public of $21.00 per unit. On October 11, 2007, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase an additional 1,148,400 common units. Net proceeds from the issuance of common units were approximately $193.5 million, after deducting the underwriters’ discount and a structuring fee of approximately $14.9 million, in the aggregate, and offering expenses of approximately $4.7 million. At the time of our initial public offering in September 2007, our assets consisted primarily of the following: • Elk Basin Assets. On March 7, 2007, we acquired oil and natural gas properties and related assets in the Elk Basin of Wyoming and Montana from subsidiaries of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation (“Anadarko”) for approximately $330.7 million, including estimated transaction costs of approximately $1.1 million. • Legacy Permian Basin Assets. Our predecessor asset properties in the Permian Basin were acquired by EAC in March 2000 and are located in Crockett County, Texas. The Legacy Permian Basin Assets are considered our predecessor. Therefore, our results of operations, reserve data, and other operating and financial information include the Legacy Permian Basin Assets for all periods presented. The Elk Basin Assets are included in our historical results of operations only from and after March 7, 2007. On February 7, 2008, we acquired certain oil and natural gas producing properties and related assets in the Permian and Williston Basins from Encore Operating, L.P. (“Encore Operating”), a wholly owned subsidiary of EAC, in exchange for approximately $125.4 million in cash and 6,884,776 common units representing limited partner interests in us. The transaction had an effective date of January 1, 2008. The Permian and Williston Basin properties currently produce approximately 1,800 BOE/D. Our historical results of operations, reserve data, and other operating and financial information do not include any information regarding these properties, unless otherwise indicated. Proved Reserves. Our estimated total proved reserves at December 31, 2007 were 14.4 MMBbls of oil and 39.1 Bcf of natural gas, based on December 31, 2007 spot market prices of $96.01 per Bbl of oil and $7.47 per Mcf of natural gas. On a BOE basis, our proved reserves were 20.9 MMBOE at December 31, 2007, of which approximately 69 percent was oil and approximately 86 percent was classified as proved developed. Our average reserve-to-production ratio is approximately 13.5 years, based on our total proved reserves as of December 31, 2007 and annualized production for the fourth quarter 2007. Drilling. In 2007, we drilled 8 gross (5.8 net) operated productive wells and participated in drilling 12 gross (0.6 net) non-operated productive wells for a total of 20 gross (6.5 net) productive wells. In 2007, we 1 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP did not drill any operated non-productive wells. In 2007, we participated in drilling 1 gross (0.5 net) non-operated non-productive well. We invested $8.9 million in development and exploitation activities in 2007. Our Relationship with Encore Acquisition Company One of our principal attributes is our relationship with EAC. We intend to use the significant experience of EAC’s management team to execute our growth strategy. EAC is a publicly traded oil and natural gas company engaged in the acquisition and development of oil and natural gas reserves from onshore fields in the United States. Since its inception in 1998, EAC has sought to acquire long-lived and mature producing properties that have predictable production decline profiles. EAC’s fields are further characterized by large accumulations of original oil in place. Original oil in place is not an indication of how much oil is likely to be produced, but it is an indication of the estimated size of a reservoir. We and EAC believe that many of EAC’s oil and natural gas properties are, or after additional capital is invested may become, well suited for our partnership. While EAC believes it may be in its best interest to contribute or sell additional assets to us due to its significant ownership of limited and general partner interests in us, EAC constantly evaluates acquisitions and dispositions and may elect to acquire or dispose of oil and natural gas properties in the future without offering us the opportunity to purchase those assets. EAC has retained such flexibility because it believes it is in the best interests of its shareholders to do so. We cannot say with any certainty which, if any, opportunities to acquire assets from EAC may be made available to us or if we will choose to pursue any such opportunity. Moreover, EAC is not prohibited from competing with us and constantly evaluates acquisitions and dispositions that do not involve us. 2 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Organizational Structure The following diagram depicts our organizational structure as of February 20, 2008: (a) As of February 20, 2008, one management incentive unit represented 1.25 common unit equivalents. For additional discussion of the management incentive units, please read “Item 11. Executive Compensation — Compensation Discussion and Analysis — Management Incentive Units.” 3 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Business Strategy Our primary business objective is to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders and, over time, increase our quarterly cash distributions. Our strategy for achieving this objective is to: • Purchase assets from EAC through negotiated transactions. In February 2008, we acquired certain oil and natural gas properties directly from EAC, and we expect to have the opportunity to acquire additional oil and natural gas properties and midstream assets directly from EAC in the future. We will seek to acquire from EAC oil and natural gas properties with predictable production profiles, low decline rates, long reserve lives, and modest capital requirements. EAC has indicated that it intends to use us as a growth vehicle to pursue the acquisition of producing oil and natural gas properties and midstream assets. Because we are not subject to federal income taxation at the entity level, we believe that we have a lower cost of capital than EAC and our corporate competitors that enhances our ability to acquire oil and natural gas properties and midstream assets. If we purchase additional assets from EAC, we believe that we will do so in negotiated transactions and not through an auction process. Although EAC is not under any obligation to sell additional properties to us, we believe EAC will have a strong incentive to do so given its significant ownership of limited and general partner interests in us. • Purchase assets through joint efforts with EAC. We expect to have the opportunity to participate with EAC in jointly pursuing oil and natural gas properties and midstream assets that may not be attractive acquisition candidates for either of us individually or that we would not be able to pursue on our own. For example, a package of oil and natural gas properties may include both long-lived assets with low-risk exploitation and development opportunities that would be of interest to us and upside opportunities requiring more capital that would be of interest to EAC. We intend to jointly pursue these and other acquisitions with EAC to the extent they would be well suited for our partnership. We believe this arrangement will provide us with a competitive advantage in the acquisition of oil and natural gas properties and midstream assets. Because we are not subject to federal income taxation at the entity level, we believe that we will have a lower cost of capital than our corporate competitors that could enhance our ability to acquire oil and natural gas properties. • Purchase assets independently of EAC. Our growth strategy includes pursuing accretive acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties and midstream assets, and we intend to target longer-lived, low-decline reserves. Such reserves typically exhibit more sustainable production profiles, thereby better enabling us to grow reserves and production and increasing the likelihood that acquired assets will benefit from enhanced recovery techniques. In addition, we intend to seek to acquire large and mature oil and natural gas fields with opportunities for incremental improvements in hydrocarbon recovery through secondary and tertiary recovery techniques, which will offer us the most potential to increase efficiency, add value, and increase cash flows. We believe that we have a cost of capital advantage relative to our corporate competitors that enhances our ability to acquire oil and natural gas properties. • Use the benefits of our relationship with EAC and the leadership of I. Jon Brumley and Jon S. Brumley. EAC has a long history of pursuing and consummating acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties in North America. Through our relationship with EAC, we have access to a significant pool of management talent and strong industry relationships that we use in implementing our strategies. I. Jon Brumley, EAC’s founder and Chairman of the Board, and Jon S. Brumley, EAC’s Chief Executive Officer and President, are actively involved in our business. • Use EAC’s technical expertise to identify and implement successful exploitation techniques to achieve optimum production and reserve recovery. Through our relationship with EAC, we have significant technical expertise in secondary and tertiary recovery methods, which differentiates us from many of our competitors. In order to be successful in achieving our primary objective of increasing our quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders over time, it is important that our production either remains relatively flat or increases over time. In order to ensure that our decline rate remains low, our budget must not have a large proportion of development drilling. New wells not associated with primary or 4 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP secondary recovery often have a high initial decline rate. Therefore, with too large of a development budget, our decline rate may become higher than desirable. We intend to use EAC’s technical expertise to achieve optimum production and reserve recovery. • Mitigate negative effects of falling commodity prices through entering into commodity derivative contracts. When appropriate, we enter into commodity derivative transactions with unaffiliated third parties in order to mitigate the effects of falling commodity prices. Our current hedging strategy is to enter into put contracts for approximately one-third of our forecasted production and fixed-price contracts (such as swaps or collars) for an additional one-third of our future production. Using this approach, we have a fixed price floor for two- thirds of our forecasted production, but a fixed ceiling price for only one-third of our forecasted production, which enables us to participate in commodity price increases for our oil and natural gas while protecting two-thirds of our future production if prices fall. We plan to maintain the flexibility to mitigate price risk on the remaining one-third of our future production or leave the production unmitigated from price risk for approximately 36 to 48 months, depending on various factors including commodity prices, budget requirements, and cash reserves. • Maintain relatively low levels of indebtedness over time and sufficient capacity under our revolving credit facility to permit us to be opportunistic with future acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties. In the future, we expect to fund approximately 50 percent of the purchase price of acquisitions with the proceeds from equity issuances and cash flows from operations in order to maintain, over time, relatively low levels of indebtedness. Competitive Strengths We believe the following competitive strengths allow us to achieve our objectives of generating and growing cash available for distribution: • Our relationship with EAC. We believe that our relationship with EAC provides us with certain advantages, including: • the ability to acquire assets directly from EAC; • the ability to acquire assets jointly with EAC; • the ability to use EAC’s technical expertise to identify and implement successful exploitation techniques to maximize production and reserve recovery; • strong commercial relationships throughout the oil and natural gas industry, including major oil companies; and • access to EAC’s broad operational, commercial, technical, risk management, and administrative infrastructure. • Our asset base is characterized by low-declining, stable, and long-lived production. Our properties have well understood geologic features, predictable production profiles, and modest capital requirements that make them well suited to our objective of making regular cash distributions to our unitholders. We have identified an inventory of enhanced recovery projects, which we believe will enable us to maintain our current production levels from these assets for several years. • The Chairman of our general partner, I. Jon Brumley, and the Chief Executive Officer and President of our general partner, Jon S. Brumley, and EAC’s experienced management, operating, and technical teams share a long working history together and in the oil and natural gas industry. Our general partner’s management team, which includes I. Jon Brumley and Jon S. Brumley, has a proven track record of enhancing value through the investment in and the acquisition, exploitation, and integration of oil and natural gas properties and related assets. The extensive experience and contacts of our general partner’s management team within the oil and natural gas industry provide a strong foundation and 5 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP focus for managing and enhancing our operations, for accessing strategic acquisition opportunities, and for developing our assets. • Our ability to use EAC’s technical expertise, particularly in enhanced recovery methods, enables us to efficiently produce and maximize the profitability of our assets. We believe EAC’s technical expertise in secondary and tertiary recovery methods is ideally suited to enhance the value of the core properties in our portfolio. Due to the mature nature of our assets and the significant amount of hydrocarbons in place, enhancing the recovery and improving the efficiency of the operations could add considerable value. • Our operational control of approximately 75 percent of our properties permits us to manage our operating costs and better control capital expenditures as well as the timing of development activities. We operate properties representing approximately 75 percent of our proved reserves, which allows us to control capital allocation and expenses. For 2007, our direct operating expenses consisted of LOE of $10.20 per BOE and production, ad valorem, and severance taxes of $6.28 per BOE. • Our cost of capital, ability to issue additional common units, and capacity under our revolving credit facility enables us to be competitive in pursuing acquisitions. Unlike our corporate competitors, we are not subject to federal income taxation at the entity level. We believe that this attribute provides us with a lower cost of capital, thereby enhancing our ability to compete for future acquisitions both individually and jointly with EAC. Our ability to issue additional common units in connection with acquisitions will enhance our financial flexibility. As of February 25, 2008, we had approximately $70.4 million available to borrow under our revolving credit facility. We believe these attributes enable us to be competitive in seeking to acquire oil and natural gas properties. Operations Well Operations In general, we seek to be the operator of wells in which we have a working interest. As operator, we design and manage the development of a well and supervise operation and maintenance activities on a day-to-day basis. We do not own drilling rigs or other oilfield services equipment used for drilling or maintaining wells on properties we operate. Independent contractors engaged by us provide all the equipment and personnel associated with these activities. We were the operator of properties representing approximately 75 percent of our proved reserves at December 31, 2007. As operator, we are able to control expenses, capital allocation, and the timing of exploitation and development activities on our properties. We also own working interests in properties that are operated by third parties, and are required to pay our share of operating, exploitation, and development costs. During 2007, 2006, and 2005, our costs for development activities on non-operated properties were approximately $2.3 million, $1.0 million, and $1.6 million, respectively. We also own royalty interests in wells operated by third parties that are not burdened by LOE or capital costs; however, we have little control over the implementation of projects on these properties. In connection with the completion of our IPO, we entered into an amended and restated administrative services agreement with Encore Operating and EAC. Pursuant to the administrative services agreement, Encore Operating provides administrative services to us, such as accounting, corporate development, finance, land, legal, and engineering. Encore Operating receives an administrative fee of $1.75 per BOE of our production for such services and reimbursement of actual third-party expenses incurred on our behalf. Encore Operating has substantial discretion in determining which third-party expenses to incur on our behalf. We also pay our share of expenses that are directly chargeable to wells under joint operating agreements. In addition, Encore Operating is entitled to retain any COPAS overhead charges associated with drilling and operating wells that would otherwise be paid by non-operating interest owners to the operator of a well. 6 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP The administrative fee will increase in the following circumstances: • beginning on the first day of April in each year beginning on April 1, 2008 by an amount equal to the product of the then-current administrative fee multiplied by the COPAS Wage Index Adjustment for the current year; • if we or one of our subsidiaries acquires any additional assets, Encore Operating may propose an increase in its administrative fee that covers the provision of services for such additional assets; however, such proposal must be approved by our general partner upon the recommendation of the conflicts committee of our general partner; and • otherwise as agreed upon by Encore Operating and our general partner, with the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner. Natural Gas Gathering We own and operate a network of natural gas gathering systems in our Elk Basin area of operation. These systems gather and transport our natural gas and a small amount of third-party natural gas to larger gathering systems and intrastate, interstate, and local distribution pipelines. Our network of natural gas gathering systems permits us to transport production from our wells with fewer interruptions and also minimizes any delays associated with a gathering company extending its lines to our wells. Our ownership and control of these lines enables us to: • realize faster connection of newly drilled wells to the existing system; • control pipeline operating pressures and capacity to maximize our production; • control compression costs and fuel use; • maintain system integrity; • control the monthly nominations on the receiving pipelines to prevent imbalances and penalties; and • track sales volumes and receipts closely to assure all production values are realized. Our gas gathering systems are operated for us by Encore Operating pursuant to the administrative services agreement. Seasonal Nature of Business Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations can limit our development activities and other operations and, as a result, we seek to perform the majority of our development during the summer months. These seasonal anomalies can pose challenges for meeting our well development objectives and increase competition for equipment, supplies, and personnel during the spring and summer months, which could lead to shortages and increase costs or delay our operations. 7 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Production and Price History The following table sets forth information regarding our net production volumes of oil and natural gas, average realized prices, and average costs per BOE for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Total Production Volumes: Oil (MBbls) 1,053 7 10 Natural gas (MMcf) 1,869 1,796 2,004 Combined (MBOE) 1,365 306 344 Average Daily Production Volumes: Oil (Bbl/D) 3,440 18 28 Natural gas (Mcf/D) 5,272 4,920 5,490 Combined (BOE/D) 4,318 838 942 Average Realized Prices: Oil (per Bbl) $ 55.85 $ 62.18 $ 53.29 Natural gas (per Mcf) 6.56 6.87 8.17 Combined (per BOE) 52.09 41.67 49.13 Average Costs per BOE: Lease operations expense $ 10.20 $ 5.47 $ 5.09 Production, ad valorem, and severance taxes 6.28 4.01 4.28 Depletion, depreciation, and amortization 19.05 3.92 3.74 Derivative fair value loss 19.27 — — General and administrative 7.84 2.06 1.66 Other operating expense 0.56 0.80 0.76 Marketing, net (1.40 ) — — Productive Wells The following table sets forth information relating to the productive wells in which we owned a working interest as of December 31, 2007. Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we had a working interest, regardless of our percentage interest. A net well is not a physical well, but is a concept that reflects the actual total working interest we held in all wells. The number of net wells we owned is calculated by totaling the percentage interests we held in all our gross wells. 8 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Our wells may produce both oil and natural gas. Wells are classified as oil or natural gas wells according to their predominant production stream. As of December 31, 2007, we owned a working interest in 650 gross wells. We also held royalty interests in units and acreage beyond the wells in which we have a working interest. Oil Wells Natural Gas Wells Average Average Gross Net Working Gross Net Working Wells(a) Wells Interest Wells(a) Wells Interest Elk Basin Operated 327 247 75 % 39 28 71 % Permian Basin Operated — — — 52 28 54 % Non-operated — — — 232 54 23 % Total 327 247 75 % 323 110 34 % (a) At December 31, 2007, 4 of our wells had multiple completions. Acreage The following table sets forth information relating to our leasehold acreage at December 31, 2007. All of our oil and natural gas leases are held by production, which means that for as long as our wells continue to produce oil or natural gas, we will continue to own the lease. Gross Acreage Net Acreage Elk Basin: Developed 16,770 13,424 Undeveloped — — 16,770 13,424 Permian Basin: Developed 22,387 8,948 Undeveloped 2,262 1,662 24,649 10,610 Total: Developed 39,157 22,372 Undeveloped 2,262 1,662 41,419 24,034 9 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Development Results We concentrate our development activity and production optimization projects on lower risk, development projects. The number and types of wells we drill or projects we undertake vary depending on the amount of funds we have available, the cost of those activities, the size of the fractional working interest we acquire in each well, and the estimated recoverable reserves attributable to each well. The following table sets forth information with respect to wells completed during the periods indicated, regardless of when development was initiated. The information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found, or economic value. No exploratory wells were drilled during the periods presented. Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Gross Development Wells: Productive 20.0 3.0 18.0 Dry 1.0 — 1.0 Total 21.0 3.0 19.0 Net Development Wells: Productive 6.5 1.4 2.6 Dry 0.5 — 0.1 Total 7.0 1.4 2.7 Present Activities As of December 31, 2007, we had a total of 3 gross (2.5 net) wells that had reached total depth and were in varying stages of completion pending first production, all of which were development wells. Delivery Commitments We do not have any delivery commitments at prices other than market prices or for terms greater than one year. Principal Customers and Marketing Arrangements Our oil and natural gas production is principally sold to end users, marketers, processors, refiners, and other purchasers having access to nearby pipeline, processing, and gathering facilities. In areas where there is no practical access to pipelines, oil is trucked to central storage facilities where it is aggregated and sold to various local markets and downstream purchasers. Our production sales agreements contain customary terms and conditions for the oil and natural gas industry, provide for sales based on prevailing market prices in the area, and generally have terms ranging from 30 days to one year. For 2007, our largest purchasers included Marathon Oil Corporation and ConocoPhillips, which accounted for 52 percent and 16 percent of our total sales of production, respectively. Our marketing of oil and natural gas can be affected by factors beyond our control, the potential effects of which cannot be accurately predicted. Management believes that the loss of any one purchaser would not have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our oil and natural gas production. Our natural gas production and gathered natural gas from operated Permian Basin properties is generally sold on the spot market or under market-sensitive, short-term agreements with purchasers, including the marketing affiliates of intrastate and interstate pipelines, independent marketing companies, gas processing 10 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP companies, and other purchasers who have the ability to pay the highest price for the natural gas production and move the natural gas under the most efficient and effective transportation agreements. Because all of our natural gas from operated Permian Basin properties is sold under market-priced agreements, we are positioned to take advantage of future increases in natural gas prices, but we are also subject to any future price declines. We do not market our own natural gas on our non-operated Permian Basin properties, but receive our share of revenues from the operator. The marketing of our Elk Basin heavy sour crude oil production is through our Clearfork pipeline, which transports the crude oil to local and other refiners through connections to other interstate pipelines. Our Elk Basin sweet crude oil production is transported from the field by a third party trucking company that delivers the crude oil to a centralized facility connected to a common carrier pipeline with delivery points accessible to local refiners in the Salt Lake City, Utah and Guernsey, Wyoming market centers. We currently sell our operated Permian Basin oil production at the wellhead to third party gathering and marketing companies. Any restrictions on the currently available capacity to transport oil through any of the above mentioned pipelines, or any other pipelines, or any interruption in refining throughput capacity could have a material adverse effect on our production volumes and the prices we receive for our production. The difference between NYMEX market prices and the price received at the wellhead for oil and natural gas production is commonly referred to as a differential. We expect the differential between the NYMEX price of crude oil and the wellhead price we receive to tighten in the first quarter of 2008 as compared to the $25.26 per Bbl negative differential we realized in the fourth quarter of 2007 due to the acquisition of certain oil and natural gas producing properties and related assets in the Permian and Williston Basins from Encore Operating as discussed in “Properties — Recently Acquired Properties” below. Oil differentials in the fourth quarter 2007 were impacted by the quality of the crude oil in the Elk Basin area, which is a heavy, sour crude, as well as its location relative to markets in the Rocky Mountains. In recent years, continued production increases from competing Canadian and Rocky Mountain producers, in conjunction with limited refining and pipeline capacity in the Rocky Mountain area and corresponding steep pricing discounts by regional refiners, have gradually widened this differential. Natural gas differentials are expected to remain flat in the first quarter of 2008 as compared to the $0.22 per Mcf positive differential we realized in the fourth quarter of 2007. We cannot accurately predict future crude oil and natural gas differentials. Increases in the differential between the NYMEX price for oil and natural gas and the wellhead price we receive could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. For analysis of our oil and natural gas differentials in 2007, 2006, and 2005, please read “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Competition The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We encounter strong competition from other independent operators and major oil companies in acquiring properties and contracting for development equipment. Many of these competitors have financial and technical resources substantially larger than ours. As a result, our competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases, or to evaluate, bid for, and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than our resources will permit. We are also affected by competition for rigs and the availability of related equipment. In the past, the oil and natural gas industry has experienced shortages of rigs, equipment, pipe, and personnel, which has delayed development drilling and other exploitation activities and has caused significant price increases. We are unable to predict when, or if, such shortages may occur or how they would affect our development and exploitation program. Competition is also strong for attractive oil and natural gas producing properties, undeveloped leases, and development rights, and we may not be able to compete satisfactorily when attempting to make further acquisitions. 11 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Properties Nature of Our Ownership Interests The following table sets forth the net production, proved reserve quantities, and PV-10 of our properties in our principal areas of operation as of and for the dates indicated: Proved Reserve Quantities 2007 Net Production at December 31, 2007 PV-10 Natural Natural at December 31, 2007 Oil Gas Total Percent Oil Gas Total Percent Amount(a) Percent (MBbls) (MMcf) (MBOE) (MBbls) (MMcf) (MBOE) (In thousands) Elk Basin 1,048 286 1,095 80 % 14,367 2,174 14,729 70 % $ 370,266 83 % Permian Basin 6 1,583 270 20 % 50 36,966 6,211 30 % 73,869 17 % Total 1,054 1,869 1,365 100 % 14,417 39,140 20,940 100 % $ 444,135 100 % (a) Giving effect to commodity derivative contracts, our PV-10 would have been decreased by $6.9 million at December 31, 2007. Standardized Measure at December 31, 2007 was $438.4 million. Standardized Measure differs from PV-10 by $5.8 million because Standardized Measure includes the effect of future income taxes. Since we are taxed as a partnership that is not subject to federal income taxes, future income taxes reflect the impact of estimated future Texas margin taxes. Therefore, we believe PV-10 provides the best method for assessing our relative value. The estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves are based on estimates prepared by Miller and Lents, Ltd. (“Miller and Lents”), independent petroleum engineers. Guidelines established by the SEC regarding the present value of future net revenues were used to prepare these reserve estimates. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering is and must be recognized as a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in any exact way, and estimates of other engineers might differ materially from those included herein. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and engineering, and estimates may justify revisions based on the results of drilling, testing, and production activities. Accordingly, estimates of reserves and their value are inherently imprecise and are subject to constant revision and change, and they should not be construed as representing the actual quantities of future production or cash flows to be realized from oil and natural gas properties or the fair market value of such properties. 12 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Our Areas of Operation All of our properties are located in the Big Horn Basin of Wyoming and Montana and the Permian Basin of West Texas, which are mature producing regions with well known geologic characteristics. These properties are located within fields that exhibit long-lived production. Most of our properties have been producing for more than 32 years, and one field has been producing continuously for more than 62 years. Elk Basin Properties Our Elk Basin properties are located in the Big Horn Basin in northwestern Wyoming and south central Montana. The Big Horn Basin is formed by the Big Horn Mountains to the east, the Absaroka Mountains to the west, the Owl Creek Mountains to the south, and the Ny-Bowler Lineament to the north. The Big Horn Basin is located in Park County, Wyoming and Carbon County, Montana. The Big Horn Basin is characterized by oil and natural gas fields with long production histories and multiple producing formations. The Big Horn Basin is a prolific basin and has produced over 1.8 billion Bbls of oil since its discovery in 1906. Our properties in the Elk Basin field, Northwest Elk Basin field, and the South Elk Basin field were acquired from subsidiaries of Anadarko in March 2007 for approximately $330.7 million, including transaction costs of approximately $1.1 million. The producing horizons in these fields are the Embar-Tensleep, Madison, Frontier, and Big Horn formations. From the date of acquisition through December 31, 2007, production from the Elk Basin Assets averaged approximately 3,580 BOE/D, of which approximately 96 percent was oil and 4 percent was natural gas. The Elk Basin Assets had estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2007 of 14,729 MBOE, of which 13,227 MBOE was proved developed and 1,502 MBOE was proved undeveloped. Approximately 94 percent of proved reserves of the Elk Basin Assets are located in the Elk Basin field. 13 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Our oil and natural gas properties in the Elk Basin area include 16,770 gross acres (13,424 net) located in Park County, Wyoming and Carbon County, Montana. During 2007, we drilled 6 gross (5.0 net) wells and invested approximately $3.9 million of capital to develop these properties. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we had a total of 3 gross (2.5 net) wells in the Elk Basin area that had reached total depth and were in varying stages of completion pending first production, all of which were development wells. All of our production in the Elk Basin area is operated. Our Elk Basin properties have a production decline rate of approximately 8 percent per year and a reserve-to-production ratio of approximately 11.5 years, based on annualized production for the fourth quarter 2007. We also own and operate (1) the Elk Basin natural gas processing plant near Powell, Wyoming, (2) the Clearfork crude oil pipeline extending from the South Elk Basin field to the Elk Basin field in Wyoming, (3) the Wildhorse natural gas gathering system that transports low sulfur natural gas from the Elk Basin and South Elk Basin fields to our Elk Basin natural gas processing plant, and (4) a small natural gas gathering system that transports high sulfur natural gas from the Elk Basin field to our Elk Basin natural gas processing facility. The following map depicts the location of our oil and natural gas properties in the Elk Basin field. Oil and Natural Gas Properties Embar-Tensleep Formation in the Elk Basin Field. Production in the Embar-Tensleep formation is currently being enhanced through a tertiary recovery technique involving effluent gas, or flue gas, from a natural gas processing facility located in the Elk Basin field. From 1949 to 1974, flue gas was injected into the Embar-Tensleep formation to increase pressure and improve production of resident hydrocarbons. Flue gas injection was re-established in 1998, and pressure monitoring wells indicate that the reservoir pressure continues to increase. Our wells in the Embar-Tensleep formation of the Elk Basin field are drilled to a depth of 4,200 to 5,400 feet. We hold an average 62 percent working interest and an average 57 percent net revenue interest in these wells. At December 31, 2007, the Embar-Tensleep formation had estimated total proved reserves of 5,908 MBOE, all of which were oil and 96 percent of which were proved developed. 14 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Madison Formation in the Elk Basin Field. Production in the Madison formation is being enhanced through a waterflood. We believe that we can enhance production in the Madison formation by, among other things, reestablishing optimal injection and producing well patterns. Our wells in the Madison formation of the Elk Basin field are drilled to a depth of 4,800 to 5,800 feet. We hold an average 67 percent working interest and an average 62 percent net revenue interest in our wells in these wells. The Madison formation had estimated total proved reserves at December 31, 2007 of 6,442 MBOE, all of which were oil and 86 percent of which were proved developed. Frontier Formation in the Elk Basin Field. The Frontier formation is being produced through primary recovery techniques. Our wells in the Frontier formation of the Elk Basin field are typically drilled to a depth of 1,600 to 2,900 feet. We hold an average 96 percent working interest and an average 83 percent net revenue interest in our wells in the Frontier formation. The Frontier formation had estimated total proved reserves at December 31, 2007 of 1,303 MBOE, 77 percent of which were oil and 71 percent of which were proved developed. Other Oil and Natural Gas Properties. We also operate wells in the Big Horn, Embar-Tensleep, and Madison formations in the Northwest Elk Basin field and in the Embar-Tensleep, Middle Frontier, Torchlight, and Peay Sand formations in the South Elk Basin field. We hold an average 85 percent working interest and an average 72 percent net revenue interest in our wells in these fields. The Northwest Elk Basin field and South Elk Basin field had estimated total proved reserves at December 31, 2007 of 893 MBOE, 93 percent of which were oil and all of which were proved developed. Natural Gas Processing Plant We operate and own a 62 percent interest in the Elk Basin natural gas processing plant near Powell, Wyoming, which was first placed into operation in the 1940s. ExxonMobil Corporation owns a 34 percent interest in the Elk Basin natural gas processing plant, and other parties own the remaining 4 percent interest. The Elk Basin natural gas processing plant is a refrigeration natural gas processing plant that receives natural gas supplies through a natural gas gathering system from fields in the Elk Basin and South Elk Basin fields. The Elk Basin natural gas processing plant currently produces approximately 415 net Bbls of NGLs per day, primarily propane, normal butane, and natural gasoline. A by-product of our natural gas processing is flue gas. Pipelines We own and operate one crude oil pipeline system and two natural gas gathering pipeline systems. The Clearfork pipeline is regulated by the FERC and transports approximately 4,500 Bbls/D of crude oil from the Elk Basin field and South Elk Basin field to a pipeline operated by Marathon Oil Corporation for further delivery to other markets. Most of the crude oil transported by the Clearfork pipeline is eventually sold to refineries in Billings, Montana. The Clearfork pipeline receives crude oil from various interconnections with local gathering systems. The Wildhorse pipeline system is an approximately 12-mile natural gas gathering system that transports approximately 6.6 MMcfe/D of low-sulfur natural gas from the Elk Basin and South Elk Basin fields to our Elk Basin natural gas processing plant. The natural gas transported by the Wildhorse gathering system is sold into the WBI Pipeline. We also own a small natural gas gathering system that transports approximately 12.2 MMcfe/D of high sulfur natural gas from the Elk Basin field to our Elk Basin natural gas processing plant. 15 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Permian Basin Properties The Permian Basin is one of the largest and most prolific oil and natural gas producing basins in the United States. The Permian Basin extends over 100,000 square miles in West Texas and southeast New Mexico and has produced over 24 billion Bbls of oil since its discovery in 1921. The Permian Basin is characterized by oil and natural gas fields with long production histories and multiple producing formations. For 2007, production from our Permian Basin properties was approximately 738 BOE/D, substantially all of which was natural gas. Our Permian Basin properties had estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2007 of 6,211 MBOE, of which 4,841 MBOE was proved developed and 1,370 MBOE was proved undeveloped. As of December 31, 2007, our Permian Basin properties consisted of 24,649 gross (10,610 net) acres located in Crockett County, Texas. During 2007, we drilled 14 gross (1.4 net) successful wells and 1 gross (0.5 net) unsuccessful well and invested approximately $5.0 million of capital to develop these properties. The preceding information does not include information related to our Permian Basin properties acquired in February 2008. For information regarding our recently acquired properties in the Permian Basin, please read “— Recently Acquired Properties — Permian Basin Properties” below. The following map depicts the location of our oil and natural gas properties in the Permian Basin. Operated Properties We operate 52 gross wells in the Angus and Henderson fields in the Ozona area in Crockett County, Texas. The wells are typically drilled to a depth of approximately 8,000 feet. These wells produce from the Canyon Sand formation. The Canyon Sand produces from several sands over a gross interval of 400 to 500 feet. The wells have been drilled to the allowable 40-acre spacing. We hold an average working interest of 54 percent and an average net revenue interest of 47 percent in these wells. Non-Operated Properties We own non-operated interests in the Davidson Ranch, Hunt-Baggett, Live Oak Draw, and Ozona fields in Crockett County, Texas. We hold an average working interest of 32 percent and an average net revenue interest of 23 percent in the wells currently developed in this area. These wells produce from the Canyon Sand and Strawn formations at depths of 8,000 to 9,000 feet. Many of the wells were not completed in all of the known producing intervals. The Canyon Sand formation in Crockett County is drilled to 40-acre spacing, and many of our non-operated leases have quality drilling locations remaining to be developed. We have identified 1,370 MBOE of proved undeveloped reserves on these properties. Our properties in Crockett County are operated by several companies, but a majority of the wells are operated by a private oil and gas company that has drilled over 80 wells in Crockett County, Texas since 16 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP 2000. Historically, we have participated with this company in drilling 2 to 4 wells per year and hold an average working interest of approximately 46 percent. In 2007, we participated with Chevron Corporation to drill 10 lease line wells. Drilling on this project began in April 2007 and was completed in July 2007. Our working interest in these wells ranges from 2 percent to 7 percent. Recently Acquired Properties In February 2008, we acquired certain oil and natural gas producing properties and related assets in the Permian and Williston Basins from Encore Operating for total consideration of approximately $250.4 million. Permian Basin Properties The Permian Basin properties are composed of six fields: Crockett, Nolley-McFarland, Dune, North Cowden, Champmon, and Yates. The Crockett field is located in Crockett County, Texas and consists of gas wells completed in tight sand deposits at 6,500 to 8,500 feet of depth from the Canyon Sand and Strawn formations. The Nolley-McFarland field is located in Andrews County, Texas and produces from the Queen and Wolfcamp formations. The Dune field is a waterflood property located in Crane County, Texas. The North Cowden field is a legacy West Texas field located in Ector County, Texas. The North Cowden field has been undergoing secondary waterflood operations since the 1970’s. More recently, the field has successfully piloted CO2 injection as a tertiary method for recovering additional oil. The Champmon field is located on a Strawn reef structure in Gaines County, Texas. The field was discovered in 1996 and is drilled on 40-acre spacing. Williston Basin Properties The Williston Basin properties are composed of three fields: Horse Creek, Charlson Madison Unit, and Elk. The Horse Creek field is located in Bowman County, North Dakota and has producing oil wells from multiple horizons in the Red River formation. The Charlson Madison Unit produces from the unitized Madison formation. The Elk field is operated and produces from wells in McKenzie County, North Dakota. Title to Properties We believe that we have satisfactory title to our oil and natural gas properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and natural gas industry. Our properties are subject, in one degree or another, to one or more of the following: • royalties, overriding royalties, and other burdens under oil and natural gas leases; • contractual obligations, including, in some cases, development obligations arising under operating agreements, farmout agreements, production sales contracts, and other agreements that may affect the properties or their titles; • liens that arise in the normal course of operations, such as those for unpaid taxes, statutory liens securing unpaid suppliers and contractors, and contractual liens under operating agreements; • pooling, unitization, and communitization agreements, declarations, and orders; and • easements, restrictions, rights-of-way, and other matters that commonly affect property. We believe that the burdens and obligations affecting our properties do not in the aggregate materially interfere with the use of the properties. 17 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP We have granted mortgage liens on substantially all of our oil and natural gas properties in favor of Bank of America, N.A., as agent, to secure borrowings under our revolving credit facility. These mortgages and the revolving credit facility contain substantial restrictions and operating covenants that are customarily found in loan agreements of this type. Environmental Matters and Regulation General. Our operations are subject to stringent and complex federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, and solid waste management. These laws and regulations may, among other things: • require the acquisition of various permits before development commences; • require the installation of expensive pollution control equipment; • enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in non-compliance with permits; • restrict the types, quantities, and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and natural gas development, production, and transportation activities; • restrict the way in which wastes are handled and disposed; • limit or prohibit development activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, areas inhabited by threatened or endangered species, and other protected areas; • require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells; • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations; and • require preparation of a Resource Management Plan, Environmental Assessment and/or an Environmental Impact Statement for operations affecting federal lands or leases. These laws, rules, and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and natural gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, Congress and federal and state agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. Any changes that result in indirect compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, including costly waste handling, disposal, and cleanup requirements for the oil and natural gas industry could have a significant impact on our operating costs. The following is a discussion of some of the existing environmental and safety laws and regulations that relate to our operations. Waste Handling. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), and comparable state statutes, regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, and cleanup of hazardous and non-hazardous solid wastes. Under the auspices of the federal Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters, and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development, and production of crude oil or natural gas are currently regulated under RCRA’s non-hazardous waste provisions. However, it is possible that certain oil and natural gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non-hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. Any such change could result in an increase in our costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Also, in the course of our 18 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP operations, we generate some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents, and waste oils, that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. Site Remediation. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as the Superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources, and for the costs of certain health studies. CERCLA authorizes the EPA, and in some cases third parties, to take actions in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. We currently own, lease, or operate numerous properties that have been used for oil and natural gas exploration and production for many years. Although petroleum, including crude oil, and natural gas are excluded from CERCLA’s definition of “hazardous substance,” in the course of our ordinary operations, we generate wastes that may fall within the definition of a “hazardous substance.” We believe that we have utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, yet hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by us, or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of our properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons was not under our control. In fact, there is evidence that petroleum spills or releases have occurred in the past at some of the properties owned or leased by us. These properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA, and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property, or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. The Elk Basin Assets have been used for oil and natural gas exploration and production for many years. There have been known releases of hazardous substances, wastes, or hydrocarbons at the properties, and some of these sites are undergoing active remediation. The risks associated with these environmental conditions, and the cost of remediation, were assumed by us, subject only to limited indemnity from the seller of the Elk Basin Assets. Releases may also have occurred in the past that have not yet been discovered, which could require costly future remediation. In addition, we assumed the risk of various other unknown or unasserted liabilities associated with the Elk Basin Assets that relate to events that occurred prior to our acquisition. If a significant release or event occurred in the past, the liability for which was not retained by the seller or for which indemnification from the seller is not available, it could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. The Elk Basin Assets include a natural gas processing plant. Previous environmental investigations of the Elk Basin natural gas processing plant indicate historical soil and groundwater contamination by hydrocarbons and the presence of asbestos-containing material at the site. Although the environmental investigations did not identify an immediate need for remediation of the suspected historical contamination, the extent of the contamination is not known and, therefore, the potential liability for remediating this contamination may be significant. In the event we were to cease operating the gas plant, the cost of decommissioning it and addressing the previously identified environmental conditions and other conditions, such as waste disposal, could be significant. Currently, we do not anticipate ceasing operations at the Elk Basin natural gas processing plant in the near future and do not anticipate a need to commence remedial activities at this time. However, a regulatory agency could require us to begin to investigate and remediate any contamination while the gas plant remains in operation. As of December 31, 2007, we have recorded $4.4 million as future abandonment liability 19 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP that represents the estimated cost for decommissioning the Elk Basin natural gas processing plant. Due to the significant level of uncertainty associated with the known and unknown environmental liabilities at the gas plant, our estimates of the future abandonment liability include a large contingency. In addition to the future abandonment liability recorded for the Elk Basin plant, we have recorded an estimated liability of $1.0 million as of December 31, 2007 related to required environmental plant compliance costs caused by past operations of the plant. The liability was assumed from Anadarko when the Elk Basin Assets were purchased. Our estimates of future abandonment liability and compliance costs are subject to change. The actual cost of these items could vary significantly. Water Discharges. The Clean Water Act (“CWA”), and analogous state laws, impose strict controls on the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. The CWA regulates storm water run-off from oil and natural gas facilities and requires a storm water discharge permit for certain activities. Such a permit requires the regulated facility to monitor and sample storm water run-off from its operations. The CWA and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit discharges of dredged and fill material in wetlands and other waters of the United States unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. Spill prevention, control, and countermeasure requirements of the CWA require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters in the event of a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture, or leak. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil, and criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the CWA and analogous state laws and regulations. The primary federal law for oil spill liability is the Oil Pollution Act (“OPA”), which addresses three principal areas of oil pollution — prevention, containment, and cleanup. OPA applies to vessels, offshore facilities, and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the United States. Under OPA, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to oil cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. Air Emissions. Oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to the federal Clean Air Act (“CAA”), and comparable state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations regulate emissions of air pollutants from various industrial sources, including oil and natural gas exploration and production facilities, and also impose various monitoring and reporting requirements. Such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions, obtain and strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations, or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions. Permits and related compliance obligations under the CAA, as well as changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non-attainment areas, may require oil and natural gas exploration and production operations to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies. In addition, some oil and natural gas facilities may be included within the categories of hazardous air pollutant sources, which are subject to increasing regulation under the CAA. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject a regulated entity to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations, and enforcement actions. Oil and natural gas exploration and production facilities may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions. Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. In response to such studies, the U.S. Congress is actively considering legislation to reduce 20 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP emissions of greenhouse gases. In addition, at least 14 states have declined to wait on Congress to develop and implement climate control legislation and have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Also, as a result of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision on April 2, 2007 in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, the EPA must consider whether it is required to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources (e.g., cars and trucks) even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. The Court’s holding in Massachusetts that greenhouse gases fall under the federal CAA’s definition of “air pollutant” may also result in future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources under various CAA programs, including those used in oil and natural gas exploration and production operations. It is not possible at this time to predict how legislation that may be enacted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact the oil and natural gas exploration and production business. However, future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, demand for our operations, results of operations, and cash flows. Activities on Federal Lands. Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities on federal lands are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”). NEPA requires federal agencies, including the Department of the Interior, to evaluate major agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an Environmental Assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement that may be made available for public review and comment. All of our current exploration and production activities, as well as proposed exploration and development plans, on federal lands require governmental permits that are subject to the requirements of NEPA. This process has the potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas projects. Occupational Safety and Health Act (“OSH Act”) and Other Laws and Regulation. We are subject to the requirements of the federal OSH Act and comparable state statutes. These laws and the implementing regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s hazard communication standard, EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of CERCLA, and similar state statutes require that we organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with these applicable requirements and with other OSH Act and comparable requirements. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to our current operations and that our continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We did not incur any material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control activities during 2007, and, as of the date of this Report, we are not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures during 2008. However, accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of our operations, and we may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases, including those relating to claims for damage to property and persons. Moreover, the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or ability to make distributions. Other Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry The oil and natural gas industry is extensively regulated by numerous federal, state, and local authorities. Legislation affecting the oil and natural gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and natural gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Although the regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases our cost of doing business and, consequently, affects our profitability, these burdens generally do not affect us any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities, and locations of production. 21 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Legislation continues to be introduced in Congress and development of regulations continues in the Department of Homeland Security and other agencies concerning the security of industrial facilities, including oil and natural gas facilities. Our operations may be subject to such laws and regulations. Presently, it is not possible to accurately estimate the costs we could incur to comply with any such facility security laws or regulations, but such expenditures could be substantial. Development and Production. Our operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state, and local levels. These types of regulation include requiring permits for the development of wells, development bonds, and reports concerning operations. Most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which we operate also regulate one or more of the following: • the location of wells; • the method of developing and casing wells; • the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; • the plugging and abandoning of wells; and • the notification of surface owners and other third parties. State laws regulate the size and shape of development and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and natural gas properties. Some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploitation while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce our interest in the unitized properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas, and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. These laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and natural gas we can produce from our wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill. Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, natural gas, and NGLs within its jurisdiction. Interstate Crude Oil Transportation. Our Clearfork crude oil pipeline is an interstate common carrier pipeline, which is subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) under the October 1, 1977 version of the Interstate Commerce Act (“ICA”) and the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (“EP Act 1992”). The ICA and its implementing regulations give the FERC authority to regulate the rates we charge for service on that interstate common carrier pipeline and generally require the rates and practices of interstate oil pipelines to be just and reasonable and nondiscriminatory. The ICA also requires us to maintain tariffs on file with the FERC that set forth the rates we charge for providing transportation services on our interstate common carrier liquids pipeline as well as the rules and regulations governing these services. Shippers may protest, and the FERC may investigate, the lawfulness of new or changed tariff rates. The FERC can suspend those tariff rates for up to seven months. It can also require refunds of amounts collected pursuant to rates that are ultimately found to be unlawful. The FERC and interested parties can also challenge tariff rates that have become final and effective. EP Act 1992 deemed certain rates in effect prior to its passage to be just and reasonable and limited the circumstances under which a complaint can be made against such “grandfathered” rates. EP Act 1992 and its implementing regulations also allow interstate common carrier oil pipelines to annually index their rates up to a prescribed ceiling level. In addition, the FERC retains cost-of-service ratemaking, market-based rates, and settlement rates as alternatives to the indexing approach. Natural Gas Gathering. Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act (“NGA”) exempts natural gas gathering facilities from the jurisdiction of the FERC. We own a number of facilities that we believe would meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a pipeline’s status as a gatherer not subject to FERC jurisdiction. In the states in which we operate, regulation of gathering facilities and intrastate pipeline facilities generally includes various safety, environmental, and in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirement and complaint-based rate regulation. 22 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Natural gas gathering may receive greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels now that the FERC has taken a less stringent approach to regulation of the offshore gathering activities of interstate pipeline transmission companies and a number of such companies have transferred gathering facilities to unregulated affiliates. Our gathering operations could be adversely affected should they be subject in the future to the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services. Our gathering operations also may be or become subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement, and management of gathering facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered or adopted from time to time. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such changes might have on our operations, but the industry could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory changes. Sales of Natural Gas. The price at which we buy and sell natural gas currently is not subject to federal regulation and, for the most part, is not subject to state regulation. Our sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms, and cost of pipeline transportation. The price and terms of access to pipeline transportation are subject to extensive federal and state regulation. The FERC is continually proposing and implementing new rules and regulations affecting those segments of the natural gas industry, most notably interstate natural gas transmission companies that remain subject to the FERC’s jurisdiction. These initiatives also may affect the intrastate transportation of natural gas under certain circumstances. The stated purpose of many of these regulatory changes is to promote competition among the various sectors of the natural gas industry, and these initiatives generally reflect more light handed regulation. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of these regulatory changes to our natural gas marketing operations, and we note that some of the FERC’s more recent proposals may adversely affect the availability and reliability of interruptible transportation service on interstate pipelines. We do not believe that we will be affected by any such FERC action materially differently than other natural gas marketers with which we compete. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (“EP Act 2005”) gave the FERC increased oversight and penalty authority regarding market manipulation and enforcement. EP Act 2005 amended the NGA to prohibit market manipulation and also amended the NGA and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (“NGPA”) to increase civil and criminal penalties for any violations of the NGA, NGPA, and any rules, regulations, or orders of the FERC to up to $1,000,000 per day, per violation. In addition, the FERC issued a final rule effective January 26, 2006 regarding market manipulation, which makes it unlawful for any entity, in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas or transportation service subject to the FERC’s jurisdiction, to defraud, make an untrue statement, or omit a material fact, or engage in any practice, act, or course of business that operates or would operate as a fraud. This final rule works together with the FERC’s enhanced penalty authority to provide increased oversight of the natural gas marketplace. State Regulation. The various states regulate the development, production, gathering, and sale of oil and natural gas, including imposing severance taxes and requirements for obtaining drilling permits. Reduced rates or credits may apply to certain types of wells and production methods. In addition to production taxes, Texas and Montana each impose ad valorem taxes on oil and natural gas properties and production equipment. Wyoming imposes an ad valorem tax on the gross value of oil and natural gas production in lieu of an ad valorem tax on the underlying oil and natural gas properties. Wyoming also imposes an ad valorem tax on production equipment. North Dakota imposes an ad valorem tax on gross oil and natural gas production in lieu of an ad valorem tax on the underlying oil and gas leases or on production equipment used on oil and gas leases. States also regulate the method of developing new fields, the spacing and operation of wells, and the prevention of waste of oil and natural gas resources. States may regulate rates of production and may establish maximum daily production allowables from oil and natural gas wells based on market demand or resource conservation, or both. States do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct economic regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. The effect of these regulations 23 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP may be to limit the amounts of oil and natural gas that may be produced from our wells, and to limit the number of wells or locations we can drill. Federal, State, or Native American Leases. Our operations on federal, state, or Native American oil and natural gas leases are subject to numerous restrictions, including nondiscrimination statutes. Such operations must be conducted pursuant to certain on-site security regulations and other permits and authorizations issued by the Federal Bureau of Land Management, Minerals Management Service, and other agencies. Operating Hazards and Insurance The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including fires, explosions, blowouts, environmental hazards, and other potential events that can adversely affect our ability to conduct operations and cause us to incur substantial losses. Such losses could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, exploitation, or leasehold acquisitions or result in loss of properties. In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, potential risks and losses. We do not carry business interruption insurance. We may not obtain insurance for certain risks if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable at a reasonable cost. If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect us. Employees The officers of our general partner manage our operations and activities. However, neither we, our subsidiaries, nor our general partner have employees. Pursuant to the administrative services agreement with Encore Operating, Encore Operating performs administrative services for us. For additional information regarding the administrative services agreement, please read “Amended and Restated Administrative Services Agreement” included in “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” EAC had a staff of 364 persons, including 39 engineers, 16 geologists, and 15 landmen as of December 31, 2007. None of these employees are represented by labor unions or covered by any collective bargaining agreement. We believe that EAC’s relations with its employees are satisfactory. Principal Executive Offices Our principal executive offices are located at 777 Main Street, Suite 1400, Fort Worth, Texas 76102, which is also where EAC’s principal executive offices are located. Our main telephone number is (817) 877-9955. Available Information We make available electronically, free of charge through our website (www.encoreenp.com), our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish such material to the SEC. In addition, any materials that we file with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information concerning the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports and other information regarding issuers, like us, that file electronically with the SEC. We have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to all directors, officers, and employees, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer. The code of business conduct and ethics is available on our website (www.encoreenp.com). In the event that we make changes in, or 24 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP provide waivers from, the provisions of this code of business conduct and ethics that the SEC or the NYSE requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events on our website. The board of directors of our general partner currently has two standing committees: (i) audit and (ii) conflicts. The NYSE does not require a listed limited partnership like us to have a majority of independent directors on the board of directors of our general partner or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. The code of business conduct and ethics and audit committee charter are available on our website. Copies of the code of business conduct and ethics and the audit committee charter are also available in print upon written request to the Corporate Secretary, Encore Energy Partners GP LLC, 777 Main Street, Suite 1400, Fort Worth, Texas 76102. The information on our website or any other website is not incorporated by reference into this Report. 25 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors should be carefully considered together with all of the other information contained in this Report. If any of the following risks and uncertainties described below or elsewhere in this Report were actually to occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, we may not be able to pay distributions on our common units, the trading price of our common units could decline, and unitholders could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations to pay quarterly distributions on our common units following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including reimbursement of expenses to our general partner and Encore Operating. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay quarterly distributions. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution is reduced by our operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserves that our general partner establishes to provide for future operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions of oil and natural gas properties, debt service requirements, and cash distributions to our unitholders. The amount of cash we actually generate depends upon numerous factors related to our business that may be beyond our control, including, among other things, the risks described in this section. In addition, the actual amount of cash that we have available for distribution depends on other factors, including: • the level of our capital expenditures; • our ability to make borrowings under our revolving credit facility to pay distributions; • sources of cash used to fund acquisitions; • debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our revolving credit facility or future debt agreements; • interest payments; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • general and administrative expenses; • cash settlement of commodity derivative contracts; • timing and collectibility of receivables; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner for the proper conduct of our business. Our oil and natural gas reserves naturally decline, and we will be unable to sustain distributions at the current level without making accretive acquisitions or substantial capital expenditures that maintain or grow our asset base. Our future oil and natural gas reserves, production volumes, cash flow, and ability to make distributions depend on our success in developing and exploiting our current reserves efficiently and finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves economically. We may not be able to develop, find, or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and reduce cash available for distribution. Because our oil and natural gas properties are a depleting asset, we need to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and grow our asset base, which reduce our cash available for distribution. Because the timing and amount of these capital expenditures fluctuate each quarter, we expect to reserve substantial amounts of cash each quarter to finance these expenditures over time. We may use the reserved cash to reduce 26 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP indebtedness until we make the capital expenditures. Over a longer period of time, if we do not set aside sufficient cash reserves or make sufficient expenditures to maintain our asset base, we will be unable to pay distributions at the current level from cash generated from operations and would therefore expect to reduce our distributions. If our reserves decrease and we do not reduce our distribution, then a portion of the distribution may be considered a return of part of our unitholders’ investment in us as opposed to a return on investment. Also, if we do not make sufficient growth capital expenditures, we will be unable to expand our business operations and will therefore be unable to raise the level of future distributions. To fund our substantial capital expenditures, we will must use cash generated from our operations, additional borrowings, or the issuance of additional equity or debt securities, or some combination thereof, which would limit our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. The use of cash generated from operations to fund capital expenditures reduces cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering and the covenants in our existing debt agreements, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and ability to pay distributions. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional partnership interests may result in significant unitholder dilution, thereby increasing the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could limit our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. We may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash from financial reserves, working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Oil and natural gas prices are very volatile. A decline in commodity prices will cause a decline in our cash flow from operations, which may force us to reduce our distributions or cease paying distributions altogether. The oil and natural gas markets are very volatile, and we cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: • domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; • weather conditions; • overall domestic and global economic conditions; • political and economic conditions in oil and natural gas producing countries, including those in the Middle East and South America; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; • impact of the U.S. dollar exchange rates on oil and natural gas prices; 27 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP • technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; • the proximity, capacity, cost, and availability of oil and natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; • the availability of refining capacity; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Our revenue, profitability, and cash flow depend upon the prices of and demand for oil and natural gas, and a drop in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. In particular, declines in commodity prices will: • negatively impact the value of our reserves, because declines in oil and natural gas prices would reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically; • reduce the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures; • limit our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital; and • impair our ability to pay distributions. If we raise our distribution levels in response to increased cash flow during periods of relatively high commodity prices, we may not be able to sustain those distribution levels during subsequent periods of lower commodity prices. An increase in the differential between the NYMEX or other benchmark prices of oil and natural gas and the wellhead price we receive could significantly reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely affect our financial condition. The prices that we receive for our oil and natural gas production sometimes trade at a discount to the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX, that are used for calculating commodity derivative settlements. The difference between the benchmark price and the price we receive is called a differential. We cannot accurately predict oil and natural gas differentials. The oil production from our Elk Basin Assets sells at a higher discount to NYMEX as compared to our Permian Basin Assets due to production increases from competing Canadian and Rocky Mountain producers, in conjunction with limited refining and pipeline capacity from the Rocky Mountain area, and corresponding deep pricing discounts by regional refiners. Increases in the differential between the benchmark price for oil and natural gas and the wellhead price we receive could significantly reduce our cash available for distribution and adversely affect our financial condition. For information regarding our expected differentials for 2008, please read “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Future price declines may result in a write-down of our asset carrying values, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and limit our ability to borrow and make distributions. Declines in oil and natural gas prices may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. If this occurs, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or development results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties. If we incur such impairment charges in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred and on our ability to borrow funds under our revolving credit facility, which in turn may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 28 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Our commodity derivative contract activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely affect our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently and may in the future enter into derivative arrangements for a significant portion of our oil and natural gas production that could result in commodity derivative losses. The extent of our commodity price exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our derivative activities. For example, the derivative instruments we utilize are based on posted market prices, which may differ significantly from the actual crude oil, natural gas, and NGL prices we realize in our operations. Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the notional amount of our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from the sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our derivative activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our derivative activities are subject to the following risks: • a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument; and • there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received, which may result in payments to our derivative counterparty that are not accompanied by our receipt of higher prices from our production in the field. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future production levels, and operating and development costs. In estimating our level of oil and natural gas reserves, we and our independent reserve engineers make certain assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, including assumptions relating to the level of oil and natural gas prices, future production levels, capital expenditures, operating and development costs, the effects of regulation, and availability of funds. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, and our estimates of the future net cash flows from our reserves could change significantly. Our Standardized Measure is calculated using prices and costs in effect as of the date of estimation, less future development, production, and income tax expenses, and discounted at 10 percent per annum to reflect the timing of future net revenue in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. Over time, we may make material changes to reserve estimates to take into account changes in our assumptions and the results of actual development and production. The reserve estimates we make for fields that do not have a lengthy production history are less reliable than estimates for fields with lengthy production histories. A lack of production history may contribute to inaccuracy in our estimates of proved reserves, future production rates, and the timing of development expenditures. The Standardized Measure of our estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of estimate. 29 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10 percent discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows in compliance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 69, Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Developing and producing oil and natural gas are costly and high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. The cost of developing, completing, and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce as much oil and natural gas as we had estimated. Furthermore, our development and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of other factors, including: • high costs, shortages, or delivery delays of rigs, equipment, labor, or other services; • unexpected operational events and/or conditions; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • increases in severance taxes; • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas; • adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; • facility or equipment malfunctions, and equipment failures or accidents; • title problems; • pipe or cement failures and casing collapses; • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures, and discharges of toxic gases; • lost or damaged oilfield development and service tools; • unusual or unexpected geological formations, and pressure or irregularities in formations; • loss of drilling fluid circulation; • fires, blowouts, surface craterings, and explosions; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, or well fluids; and • loss of leases due to incorrect payment of royalties. If any of these factors were to occur with respect to a particular field, we could lose all or a part of our investment in the field, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits from the field, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. 30 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Secondary and tertiary recovery techniques may not be successful, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Approximately 70 percent of our production and 65 percent of our reserves as of December 31, 2007 rely on secondary and tertiary recovery techniques, which include waterfloods and injecting natural gases into producing formations to enhance hydrocarbon recovery. If production response is less than forecast for a particular project, then the project may be uneconomic or generate less cash flow and reserves than we had estimated prior to investing capital. Risks associated with secondary and tertiary recovery techniques include, but are not limited to, the following: • lower-than-expected production; • longer response times; • higher capital costs; • shortages of equipment; and • lack of technical expertise. If any of these risks occur, it could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and, as a result, our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Shortages of rigs, equipment, and crews could delay our operations and reduce our cash available for distribution. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally increase the demand for rigs, equipment, and crews and can lead to shortages of, and increasing costs for, development equipment, services, and personnel. Shortages of, or increasing costs for, experienced development crews and oil field equipment and services could restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations that we currently have planned. Any delay in the development of new wells or a significant increase in development costs could reduce our revenues. If we do not make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and ability to pay or increase distributions will be limited. Our ability to grow and to increase distributions to unitholders depends in part on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in pro forma available cash per unit. We may be unable to make such acquisitions because we are: • unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with them; • unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or • outbid by competitors. If we are unable to acquire properties containing proved reserves, our total level of proved reserves will decline as a result of our production, and we will be limited in our ability to increase or possibly even to maintain our level of cash distributions. 31 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Any acquisitions we complete are subject to substantial risks that could reduce our ability to make distributions to unitholders. Even if we complete acquisitions that we believe will increase pro forma available cash per unit, these acquisitions may nevertheless result in a decrease in pro forma available cash per unit. Any acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: • the validity of our assumptions about reserves, future production, revenues, capital expenditures, operating expenses, and costs, including synergies; • an inability to integrate the businesses we acquire successfully; • a decrease in our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; • the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses, or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • an inability to hire, train, or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets; • natural disasters; • the incurrences of other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation, or restructuring charges; • unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; and • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses. Our decision to acquire a property depends in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses, and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Also, our reviews of acquired properties are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition given time constraints imposed by sellers. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Due to our lack of asset and geographic diversification, adverse developments in our operating areas would reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We only own oil and natural gas properties and related assets. All of our assets are located in Wyoming, Montana, North Dakota, and Texas. Due to our lack of diversification in asset type and location, an adverse development in the oil and natural gas business in these geographic areas would have a significantly greater impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders than if we maintained more diverse assets and locations. 32 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP We depend on two customers for a substantial amount of our sales. If these customers reduce the volumes of oil and natural gas they purchase from us, our revenues and cash available for distribution will decline to the extent we are not able to find new customers for our production. For 2007, Marathon Oil Corporation and ConocoPhillips accounted for approximately 52 percent and 16 percent of our total sales of production, respectively. If either of these customers were to reduce the production it purchases from us, our revenue and cash available for distribution will decline to the extent we are not able to find new customers for our production. We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which may adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient revenue to allow us to pay distributions to our unitholders. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive with respect to acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and natural gas, and securing equipment and trained personnel, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Many of our competitors are major and large independent oil and natural gas companies, and possess and employ financial and technical resources substantially greater than ours. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Many of our larger competitors not only drill for and produce oil and natural gas but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national, or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and natural gas properties and evaluate, bid for, and purchase a greater number of properties than our resources permit. In addition, there is substantial competition for investment capital in the oil and natural gas industry. These larger companies may have a greater ability to continue development activities during periods of low oil and natural gas prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local, and other laws and regulations. Our inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition, and results of operations. We may incur substantial additional debt to enable us to pay our quarterly distributions, which may negatively affect our ability to execute our business plan and pay future distributions. We may be unable to pay a distribution at the current distribution rate or a future distribution rate without borrowing under our revolving credit facility. When we borrow to pay distributions, we are distributing more cash than we are generating from our operations on a current basis. This means that we are using a portion of our borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility to pay distributions rather than to maintain or expand our operations. If we use borrowings under our revolving credit facility to pay distributions for an extended period of time rather than toward funding capital expenditures and other matters relating to our operations, we may be unable to support or grow our business. Such a curtailment of our business activities, combined with our payment of principal and interest on our future indebtedness to pay these distributions, will reduce our cash available for distribution on our units and will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we borrow to pay distributions during periods of low commodity prices and commodity prices remain low, we may have to reduce our distribution in order to avoid excessive leverage. 33 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Our future debt levels may limit our flexibility to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities. As of February 25, 2008, we had $169.5 million of outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We have the ability to incur additional debt under our revolving credit facility, subject to borrowing base limitations. Our future indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • covenants contained in our future debt arrangements may require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including possible acquisition opportunities; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities, and distributions to unitholders; and • our debt level will make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures, a downturn in our business, or the economy generally, than our competitors with less debt. Our ability to service our indebtedness depends upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which is affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory, and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms or at all. Our revolving credit facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities and our ability to pay distributions. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility and any future financing agreements may restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand, or pursue our business activities or to pay distributions. Our ability to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios, or tests in our revolving credit facility, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, our ability to make distributions will be inhibited, and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our revolving credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets. Our revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders in their sole discretion. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base will be required to be repaid immediately, or we will be required to pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral. 34 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. There are a variety of operating risks inherent in our wells, gathering systems, pipelines, and other facilities, such as leaks, explosions, mechanical problems, and natural disasters, all of which could cause substantial financial losses. Any of these or other similar occurrences could result in the disruption of our operations, substantial repair costs, personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations, and substantial revenue losses. The location of our wells, gathering systems, pipelines, and other facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could significantly increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. We are not fully insured against all risks, including development and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Moreover, insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and on commercially reasonable terms. Changes in the insurance markets due to terrorist attacks and hurricanes have made it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of coverage. We may not be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we would otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes, and our insurance may contain large deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all potential losses. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our business depends in part on gathering and transportation facilities owned by others. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities could interfere with our ability to market our oil and natural gas production and could harm our business. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity, and capacity of pipelines, oil and natural gas gathering systems, and processing facilities. The amount of oil and natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage, or lack of available capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline capacity could reduce our ability to market our oil and natural gas production and harm our business. We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate. Other companies operated approximately 25 percent of our properties (measured by total reserves) and approximately 36 percent of our wells as of December 31, 2007. We have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of these non-operated properties or the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to them. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could materially adversely affect the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities and lead to unexpected future costs. We are subject to complex federal, state, local, and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner, or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, 35 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP design, drill, install, operate, and abandon oil and natural gas wells and related pipeline and processing facilities. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from various federal, state, and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Our business is subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, and production of, oil and natural gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to make distributions to unitholders. Please read “Item 1. Business — Environmental Matters and Regulation” and “Item 1. Business — Other Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Our operations expose us to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and safety requirements applicable to our oil and natural gas production activities. In addition, we often indemnify sellers of oil and natural gas properties for environmental liabilities they or their predecessors may have created. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state, and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including regulations and enforcement policies, which have become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs, liens and, to a lesser extent, issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Strict, joint, and several liability may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. New laws, regulations, or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. If we are not able to recover the resulting costs through insurance or increased revenues, our profitability and our ability to make distributions to unitholders could be adversely affected. The amount of cash distributions that we will be able to distribute to unitholders will be reduced by the costs associated with being a public company, other general and administrative expenses, and reserves that our general partner believes prudent to maintain for the proper conduct of our business and for future distributions. Before we can pay distributions to our unitholders, we must first pay or reserve cash for our expenses, including capital expenditures, the costs of being a public company, and other operating expenses, and we may reserve cash for future distributions during periods of limited cash flows. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders will be affected by our level of reserves and expenses, including the costs associated with being a public company. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our general partner and its affiliates own a controlling interest in us and may have conflicts of interest with us and limited fiduciary duties to us, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of unitholders. As of February 20, 2008, affiliates of EAC owned approximately 67 percent of our outstanding common units and controlled our general partner, which controls us. The directors and officers of our general partner 36 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to EAC. Furthermore, certain directors and officers of our general partner are directors and officers of affiliates of our general partner, including EAC. Conflicts of interest may arise between EAC and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These potential conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires EAC or its affiliates (other than our general partner) to pursue a business strategy that favors us. EAC’s directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of its shareholders, which may be contrary to our interests; • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as EAC and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; • EAC is not limited in its ability to compete with us and is under no obligation to offer to sell assets to us; • under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or its affiliates (including EAC) and no such person who acquires knowledge of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement, or other matter that may be an opportunity for our partnership will have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us; • some officers of our general partner who provide services to us will devote time to affiliates of our general partner and may be compensated for services rendered to such affiliates; • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties, and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Unitholders are deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities, and cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders; • we entered into an administrative services agreement with Encore Operating pursuant to which Encore Operating performs administrative services for us. Under the administrative services agreement, Encore Operating receives an administrative fee of $1.75 per BOE of our production for such services and reimbursement of actual third-party expenses incurred on our behalf. Encore Operating has substantial discretion in determining which third-party expenses to incur on our behalf. We also pay our share of expenses that are directly chargeable to wells under joint operating agreements. In addition, Encore Operating is entitled to retain any COPAS overhead charges associated with drilling and operating wells that would otherwise be paid by non-operating interest owners to the operator of a well; • our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner has limited its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations and, in some circumstances, is entitled to be indemnified by us; • our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of the common units; 37 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants, or others to perform services for us. EAC is not limited in its ability to compete with us, which could limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses. Our partnership agreement does not prohibit EAC from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In addition, EAC may acquire, develop, or dispose of additional oil and natural gas properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or develop any of those assets. EAC is a large, established participant in the oil and natural gas industry, and has significantly greater resources and experience than we have, which factors may make it more difficult for us to compete with EAC with respect to commercial activities as well as for acquisition candidates. As a result, competition from EAC could adversely impact our results of operations and cash available for distribution. EAC, as the owner of our general partner, has the power to appoint and remove our directors and management. Since an affiliate of EAC owns our general partner, it has the ability to elect all the members of the board of directors of our general partner. Our general partner has control over all decisions related to our operations. Since affiliates of EAC also owned approximately 67 percent of our outstanding common units as of February 20, 2008, the public unitholders do not have the ability to influence any operating decisions and are not able to prevent us from entering into most transactions. Furthermore, the goals and objectives of EAC and our general partner relating to us may not be consistent with those of a majority of the public unitholders. We do not have any employees and rely solely on officers of our general partner and employees of EAC. Failure of such officers and employees to devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business may adversely affect our financial results and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. None of the officers of our general partner are employees of our general partner, and we do not have any employees. We entered into an administrative services agreement with Encore Operating pursuant to which Encore Operating performs administrative services for us. Affiliates of our general partner and Encore Operating conduct businesses and activities of their own in which we have no economic interest, including businesses and activities relating to EAC. If these separate activities are significantly greater than our activities, there could be material competition for the time and effort of the officers and employees who provide services to our general partner, EAC, and their affiliates. If the officers of our general partner and the employees of EAC and their affiliates do not devote sufficient attention to the management and operation of our business, our financial results may suffer and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders may be reduced. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty laws. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or 38 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP factors affecting, us, our affiliates, or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, the exercise of its rights to transfer or vote the units it owns, the exercise of its registration rights, and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner acting in good faith and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or must be “fair and reasonable” to us, as determined by our general partner in good faith. In determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and nonappealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or its officers and directors acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision the general partner or its conflict committee acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption. Our unitholders are bound by the provisions in our partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders do not elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by EAC. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent. The unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3 percent of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove the general partner. As of February 20, 2008, our general partner and its affiliates owned approximately 67 percent of our outstanding common units. Control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of EAC, the owner of our general partner, from transferring all or a portion of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be 39 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions made by the board of directors and officers. We may issue additional units, including units that are senior to the common units, without unitholder approval. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional partner interests that we may issue. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation, and voting. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders, other than our general partner and its affiliates, owning 20 percent or more of our common units, which may limit the ability of significant unitholders to influence the manner or direction of management. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any common units held by a person, entity, or group that owns 20 percent or more of any class of common units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such common units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Affiliates of our general partner may sell common units in the public markets, which sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units. As of February 20, 2008, EAC held an aggregate of 20,924,055 common units. The sale of these units in the public markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80 percent of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders also may incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. As of February 20, 2008, our general partner and its affiliates owned approximately 67 percent of our outstanding common units. Unitholder liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. Our partnership is organized under Delaware law and we conduct business in a number of 40 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. A unitholder could be liable for our obligations as if it was a general partner if: • a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state’s partnership statute; or • a unitholder’s rights to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement, or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute “control” of our business. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of an impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. A purchaser of common units who becomes a limited partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to such purchaser of common units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. Unitholders who are not Eligible Holders will not be entitled to receive distributions on or allocations of income or loss on their common units and their common units will be subject to redemption. In order to comply with U.S. laws with respect to the ownership of interests in oil and natural gas leases on federal lands, we have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common units. As used herein, an Eligible Holder means a person or entity qualified to hold an interest in oil and natural gas leases on federal lands. As of the date hereof, Eligible Holder means: • a citizen of the United States; • a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof; • a public body, including a municipality; or • an association of United States citizens, such as a partnership or limited liability company, organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof, but only if such association does not have any direct or indirect foreign ownership, other than foreign ownership of stock in a parent corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. For the avoidance of doubt, onshore mineral leases or any direct or indirect interest therein may be acquired and held by aliens only through stock ownership, holding or control in a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or of any state thereof. Unitholders who are not persons or entities who meet the requirements to be an Eligible Holder, will not receive distributions or allocations of income and loss on their common units and they run the risk of having their common units redeemed by us at the lower of their purchase price cost or the then-current market price. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be 41 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly traded limited partnership interests. Reduced demand for our common units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation or if we were to become subject to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35 percent and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law may change, so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise, and other forms of taxation. For example, we are subject to a new entity-level tax, the Texas margin tax, at an effective rate of up to 0.7 percent on the portion of our income that is apportioned to Texas beginning with tax reports due on or after January 1, 2008. Imposition of such a tax on us by Texas or any other state will reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative, or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, members of Congress are considering substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Although the currently proposed legislation would not appear to affect our tax treatment as a partnership, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. 42 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP We prorate our items of income, gain, loss, and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss, and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury regulations, and, accordingly, our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of this method. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders. If the IRS contests any of the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely affected, and the costs of any contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, unitholders are required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income, even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from their share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to unitholders in excess of the total net taxable income they were allocated for a common unit, which decreased their tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to unitholders if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that common unit, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, if unitholders sell their common units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and other retirement plans, and non-United States persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-United States persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, 43 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP and non-United States persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss, or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Our tax counsel has not rendered an opinion regarding the treatment of a unitholder where common units are loaned to a short seller to cover a short sale of common units; therefore, unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we will adopt depletion, depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. Our counsel is unable to opine as to the validity of such filing positions. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to unitholder tax returns. Unitholders likely will be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes, and estate, inheritance, or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. Unitholders likely will be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We own property and conduct business in Montana, North Dakota, Texas, and Wyoming. Of those states, Texas and Wyoming do not currently impose a state income tax on individuals. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is the unitholders’ responsibility to file all federal, state, and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state and local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of our capital and profits interests within a twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and unitholders receiving two schedule K-1s) for one fiscal year and require a unitholder who uses a different taxable year than us to include more than twelve moths of our taxable income or loss in his taxable income for the year of our termination. 44 Table of Contents ENCORE ENERGY PARTNERS LP We may adopt certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss, and deduction between the holders of the management incentive units and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and the holders of the management incentive units. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss, and deduction between certain unitholders and the holders of the management incentive units, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss, and deduction between the holders of the management incentive units and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There were no unresolved SEC staff comments as of December 31, 2007. 