ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent in the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. • Our business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. The global, U.S. and North Carolina economies are continuing to experience significantly reduced business activity and consumer spending as a result of, among other factors, disruptions in the capital and credit markets that first occurred during 2008. Since 2008, dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: • a decrease in the demand for loans or other products and services offered by us; • a decrease in the value of our loans or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; • a decrease in deposit balances due to overall reductions in the accounts of customers; • an impairment of certain intangible assets or investment securities; • a decreased ability to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all; or • an increase in the number of borrowers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provision for credit losses, which would reduce our earnings. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to continue to be adversely affected. • Financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress will result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. Congress recently enacted the Dodd-Frank Act. This new law will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. 11 Table of Contents Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term effect on us. For example, effective one year after the date of enactment, is a provision that eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse effect on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. • Additional requirements under our regulatory framework, especially those imposed under ARRA, EESA or other legislation or regulations intended to strengthen the U.S. financial system, could adversely affect us. Recent government efforts to strengthen the U.S. financial system, including the implementation of ARRA, EESA, the TLGP and special assessments imposed by the FDIC, subject participants to additional regulatory fees and requirements, including corporate governance requirements, executive compensation restrictions, restrictions on declaring or paying dividends, restrictions on share repurchases, limits on executive compensation tax deductions and prohibitions against golden parachute payments. These requirements, and any other requirements that may be subsequently imposed, may have a material and adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. • Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect the Company’s net income and profitability. Since 2008, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, the FDIC instituted two temporary programs, to further insure customer deposits at FDIC insured banks: deposit accounts are now insured up to $250,000 per customer (up from $100,000), which in 2010 was made permanent, and noninterest-bearing transactional accounts are currently fully insured (unlimited coverage). These programs have placed additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring banks to prepay three years’ worth of estimated deposit insurance premiums by December 31, 2009. The Company is generally unable to control the amount of premiums that the Bank is required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, or the cost of resolving prior failures exceeds expectations, the Bank may be required to pay higher FDIC premiums than those currently in force. Any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact the Company’s earnings and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents • The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and other institutional clients. From time to time, we may utilize derivative financial instruments, primarily to hedge our exposure to changes in interest rates, but also to hedge cash flow. By entering into these transactions and derivative instrument contracts, we expose ourselves to counterparty credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. When the fair value of a derivative contract is in an asset position, the counterparty has a liability to us, which creates credit risk for us. We attempt to minimize this risk by selecting counterparties with investment grade credit ratings, limiting our exposure to any single counterparty and regularly monitoring our market position with each counterparty. Nonetheless, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. • The capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility. During the economic downturn, the capital and credit markets experienced extended volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If these levels of market disruption and volatility continue, worsen or abate and then arise at a later date, the Company’s ability to access capital could be materially impaired. The Company’s inability to access the capital markets could constrain the Bank’s ability to make new loans, to meet the Bank’s existing lending commitments and, ultimately jeopardize the Bank’s overall liquidity and capitalization. • Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a degree of risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • cash flow of the borrower and/or a business activity being financed; • in the case of a collateralized loan, changes in and uncertainties regarding future values of collateral; • the credit history of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • the duration of the loan. We use underwriting procedures and criteria that we believe minimize the risk of loan delinquencies and losses, but banks routinely incur losses in their loan portfolios. Regardless of the underwriting criteria we use, we will experience loan losses from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, and many of those losses will result from factors beyond our control. These factors include, among other things, changes in market, economic, business or personal conditions, or other events (including changes in market interest rates), that affect our borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans and the value of properties that collateralize loans. 13 Table of Contents As a result of recent difficulties in the national economy and housing market, declining real estate values, rising unemployment, and loss of consumer confidence, we and most other financial institutions have experienced increasing levels of non-performing loans, foreclosures and loan losses. We maintain an allowance for loan losses which we believe is appropriate to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of our allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of internal and external factors that affect loan collectability, including, but not limited to: • an ongoing review of the quality, size and diversity of the loan portfolio; • evaluation of non-performing loans; • historical default and loss experience; • historical recovery experience; • existing economic conditions; • risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. However, if delinquency levels continue to increase or we continue to incur higher than expected loan losses in the future, there is no assurance that our allowance will be adequate to cover resulting losses or that we will not have to make significant provisions to our allowance. • A large percentage of our loans are secured by real estate. Adverse conditions in the real estate market in our banking markets have adversely affected our loan portfolio. While we do not have a sub-prime lending program, a relatively large percentage of our loans are secured by real estate. Our management believes that, in the case of many of those loans, the real estate collateral is not being relied upon as the primary source of repayment, and the level of our real estate loans reflects, at least in part, our policy to take real estate whenever possible as primary or additional collateral rather than other types of collateral. However, adverse conditions in the real estate market and the economy in general have decreased real estate values in our banking markets. If the value of our collateral for a loan falls below the outstanding balance of that loan, our ability to collect the balance of the loan by selling the underlying real estate in the event of a default will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer a loss on the loan. An increase in our loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The FDIC recently adopted rules aimed at placing additional monitoring and management controls on financial institutions whose loan portfolios are deemed to have concentrations in commercial real estate (“CRE”). At December 31, 2010, our loan portfolio was below thresholds established by the FDIC for CRE concentrations and for additional regulatory scrutiny. Indications from regulators are that strict limitations on the amount or percentage of CRE within any given portfolio are not expected, but, rather, that additional reporting and analysis will be required to document management’s evaluation of the potential additional risks of such concentrations and the impact of any mitigating factors. It is possible that regulatory constraints associated with these rules could adversely affect our ability to grow loan assets and thereby limit our overall growth and expansion plans. These rules also could increase the costs of monitoring and managing this component of our loan portfolio. Either of these eventualities could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. • Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms which are acceptable to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as the current disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. 14 Table of Contents Among other sources of funds, we rely heavily on deposits, including out-of-market certificates of deposit, for funds to make loans and provide for our other liquidity needs. Those out-of-market deposits may not be as stable as other types of deposits and, in the future, depositors may not renew those time deposits when they mature, or we may have to pay a higher rate of interest to attract or keep them or to replace them with other deposits or with funds from other sources. Not being able to attract those deposits, or to keep or replace them as they mature, would adversely affect our liquidity. Paying higher deposit rates to attract, keep or replace those deposits could have a negative effect on our interest margin and operating results. • We may need to raise additional capital in the future in order to continue to grow, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. Federal and state banking regulators require us to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, in the future we may need to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, recently a number of financial institutions have sought to raise considerable amounts of additional capital in response to a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from increases in their non-performing loans and loan losses, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. On December 31, 2010, our three capital ratios were above “well capitalized” levels under bank regulatory guidelines. However, growth in our earning assets resulting from internal expansion and new branch offices, at rates in excess of the rate at which our capital is increased through retained earnings, will reduce our capital ratios unless we continue to increase our capital. Also, future unexpected losses, whether resulting from loan losses or other causes, would reduce our capital. Should we need, or be required by regulatory authorities, to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. However, our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions at that time in the capital markets, economic conditions, our financial performance and condition, and other factors, many of which are outside our control. There is no assurance that, if needed, we will be able to raise additional capital on terms favorable to us or at all. Our inability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our operations, and on our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. • If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock we have sold to the U.S. Treasury prior to January 16, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase from 5.0% per annum (approximately $385,000 annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $693,000 annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative affect on our liquidity and on our net income available to holders of our common stock. • Our profitability is subject to interest rate risk. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our profitability depends, to a large extent, on our net interest income, which is the difference between our income on interest-earning assets and our expense on interest-bearing deposits and other liabilities. In other words, to be profitable, we have to earn more interest on our loans and investments than we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Like most financial institutions, we are affected by changes in general interest rate levels and by other economic factors beyond our control. Interest rate risk arises in part from the mismatch (i.e., the interest sensitivity “gap”) between the dollar amounts of repricing or maturing interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and is measured in terms of the ratio of the interest rate sensitivity gap to total assets. When more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities will reprice or mature over a given time period, a bank is considered asset-sensitive and has a positive gap. When more liabilities than assets will reprice or mature over a given time period, a bank is considered liability-sensitive and has a negative gap. A liability-sensitive position (i.e., a negative gap) may generally enhance net interest income in a falling interest rate environment and reduce net interest income in a rising interest rate environment. An asset-sensitive position (i.e., a positive gap) may generally enhance net interest income in a rising interest rate environment and reduce net interest income in a falling interest rate environment. Our ability to manage our gap position determines to a great extent our ability to operate profitably. However, fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable, and recent economic and financial market conditions have made it extremely difficult to manage our gap position. Our profitability and results of operations will be adversely affected if we do not successfully manage our interest sensitivity gap. 15 Table of Contents On December 31, 2010, we had a negative one-year cumulative interest sensitivity gap, which means that, during a one-year period, our interest-bearing liabilities generally would be expected to reprice at a faster rate than our interest-earning assets. A rising rate environment within that one-year period generally would have a negative effect on our earnings, while a falling rate environment generally would have a positive effect on our earnings. • Our long-range business strategy includes the continuation of our growth plans, and our financial condition and operating results could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. Subject to market conditions and the economy, we intend to continue to grow in our existing banking markets (internally and through additional offices) and to expand into new markets as appropriate opportunities arise. We have opened five de novo branch offices since 2000. Consistent with our business strategy, and to sustain our growth, in the future we may establish other de novo branches or acquire other financial institutions or their branch offices. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches, and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for some period of time. Any new branches we open can be expected to negatively affect our operating results until those branches reach a size at which they become profitable. In establishing new branches in new markets, we compete against other banks with greater knowledge of those local markets and may need to hire and rely on local managers who have local affiliations and to whom we may need to give significant autonomy. If we grow but fail to manage our growth effectively, there could be material adverse effects on our business, future prospects, financial condition or operating results, and we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy. On the other hand, our operating results also could be materially affected in an adverse way if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated, or declines. Although we believe we have management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, we cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets, or that expansion will not adversely affect our operating results. • Our business depends on the condition of the local and regional economies where we operate. We currently have offices only in Guilford County, North Carolina. Consistent with our community banking philosophy, a majority of our customers are located in and do business in that region, and we lend a substantial portion of our capital and deposits to commercial and consumer borrowers in our local banking markets. Therefore, our local and regional economy has a direct impact on our ability to generate deposits to support loan growth, the demand for loans, the ability of borrowers to repay loans, the value of collateral securing our loans (particularly loans secured by real estate), and our ability to collect, liquidate and restructure problem loans. If our local communities are adversely affected by current conditions in the national economy or by other specific events or trends, there could be a direct adverse effect on our operating results. Adverse economic conditions in our banking markets could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us, and generally affect our financial condition and operating results. We are less able than larger institutions to spread risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. The economy of North Carolina’s Piedmont Triad region can be affected by adverse weather events. Our banking markets lie in one county, and we cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future weather events will affect our operations, our customers or the economies in our banking markets. However, weather events could cause a decline in loan originations, destruction or decline in the value of properties securing our loans, or an increase in the risks of delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. • New or changes in existing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could have an adverse effect on our strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a financial company’s shareholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations, and our compliance with regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of offices. 16 Table of Contents The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described under “Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations, control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. The laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. As a result of recent turmoil in the financial services industry, there has been an increase in the regulation of all financial institutions. We cannot predict the effects of such changes on our business and profitability. • Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial liabilities. We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Among the laws that apply to us, the Patriot Act and Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended, require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the Treasury’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. Several banking institutions have recently received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations. • Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. Our future growth and success will depend on, among other things, our ability to compete effectively with other financial services providers in our banking markets. To date, we have grown our business by focusing on our lines of business and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. However, commercial banking in our banking markets and in North Carolina as a whole is extremely competitive. We compete against commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as other local and community, super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions in attracting deposits and in making loans, and we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Our larger competitors have greater resources, broader geographic markets and name recognition, and higher lending limits than we do, and they can offer more products and services and better afford and more effectively use media advertising, support services and electronic technology than we can. Also, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. While we believe we compete effectively with other financial institutions, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be an effective competitor in our banking markets. • We rely on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of our revenue. We receive substantially all of our revenue as dividends from the Bank. As described under “Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation,” federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us. If the Bank becomes unable to pay dividends to us, then we may not be able to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock we have sold to the U.S. Treasury. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from the Bank could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of your investment in our common stock. 17 Table of Contents • We depend on the services of our current management team. Our operating results and ability to adequately manage our growth and minimize loan losses are highly dependent on the services, managerial abilities and performance of our executive officers. Smaller banks, like us, sometimes find it more difficult to attract and retain experienced management personnel than larger banks. We currently have an experienced management team that our Board of Directors believes is capable of managing and growing the Bank. However, changes in or losses of key personnel of any company could disrupt that company’s business and could have an adverse effect on its business and operating results. • The Company and the Bank compete with much larger companies for some of the same business. The banking and financial services business in our market areas continues to be a competitive field and it is becoming more competitive as a result of: • Changes in regulations; • Changes in technology and product delivery systems; and • The accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We may not be able to compete effectively in our markets, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by the nature or pace of change in competition. We compete for loans, deposits and customers with various bank and nonbank financial services providers, many of which are much larger in total assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets and offer a broader array of financial services. • Negative publicity could damage our reputation. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. • The Bank is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Bank may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Bank may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Bank to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Bank’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations of enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Bank’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Bank has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. • Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could cause us to enter into unfavorable transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents • Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Liquidity is essential to our business. Our ability to implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to obtain funding for loan originations, working capital, possible acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, securities sold under repurchase agreements, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. We do not anticipate that our retail and commercial deposits will be sufficient to meet our funding needs in the foreseeable future. We therefore rely on deposits obtained through intermediaries, FHLB advances, securities sold under agreements to repurchase and other wholesale funding sources to obtain the funds necessary to manage our balance sheet. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general, including a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. To the extent we are not successful in obtaining such funding, we will be unable to implement our strategy as planned which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. • Impairment of investment securities, certain other intangible assets, or deferred tax assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. In assessing the impairment of investment securities, management considers the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuers, and the intent and ability of the Company to retain its investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value in the near term. Under current accounting standards, certain other intangible assets with indeterminate lives are no longer amortized but, instead, are assessed for impairment periodically or when impairment indicators are present. Assessment of certain other intangible assets could result in circumstances where the applicable intangible asset is deemed to be impaired for accounting purposes. Under such circumstances, the intangible asset’s impairment would be reflected as a charge to earnings in the period during which such impairment is identified. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. The impact of each of these impairment matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. • We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. • Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents • Our common stock is not FDIC insured. Our common stock is not a savings or deposit account or other obligation of any bank and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental agency and is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, holders of our common stock may lose some or all of their investment. • The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell our common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. We cannot predict how or at what prices our common stock will trade in the future. The market value of our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: • Actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; • Changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; • Actions of our current shareholders, including sales of common stock by existing shareholders and our directors and executive officers; • Fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • Regulatory developments; and • Developments related to the financial services industry. The market value of and trading in our common stock also is affected by conditions (including price and trading fluctuations) affecting the financial markets in general, and in the market for the stocks of financial services companies in particular. These conditions may result in volatility in the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our common stock. Also, market conditions may result in sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market. In each case, market conditions could affect the market price of our stock in a way that is unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. • The trading volume in our common stock has been low, and the sale of a substantial number of shares in the public market could depress the price of our stock and make it difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, but it has a relatively low average daily trading volume relative to many other stocks. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market, which can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded and limit an investor’s ability to quickly sell blocks of stock. We cannot predict what effect future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. • Our management beneficially owns a substantial percentage of our common stock, so our directors and executive officers can significantly affect voting results on matters voted on by our shareholders. Our current directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. Because of their voting rights, in matters put to a vote of our shareholders it could be difficult for any group of our other shareholders to defeat a proposal favored by our management (including the election of one or more of our directors) or to approve a proposal opposed by management. 20 Table of Contents • The Securities Purchase Agreement between us and the U.S. Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The Securities Purchase Agreement between us and the U.S. Treasury provides that prior to the earlier of January 30, 2012, and the date on which all of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock held by the U.S. Treasury have been redeemed by us or transferred by Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of the U.S. Treasury: • increase the cash dividend on our common stock; or • subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock (other than the Series A Preferred Stock) or trust preferred securities. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the Warrant, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. We have not historically paid cash dividends on our common stock. • Our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock affects net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share, and the Warrant we issued to the U.S. Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on our Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Company. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the Warrant represent approximately 9.26% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 18, 2010 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant). Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 