ITEM 1A Risk Factors An investment in our Common Stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, before deciding to invest in our Common Stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our Company. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of our Common Stock could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We rely on a single product for a substantial portion of our sales and any changes in the market for this product could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, sales of our liquid crop nutrient product represented 99%, 97% and 93% of our total sales, respectively. If there is any disruption in the demand for our liquid crop nutrient product, whether as a result of alternative nutrient or fertilizer products being developed, the entry of significant competitors to the marketplace or otherwise, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The limited operating history and early stage development of Yongye Nongfeng, and Yongye Fumin may make it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. We established our cooperative joint venture, Yongye Nongfeng, on January 4, 2008, with the intention of carrying out the business of marketing and distributing, and the ultimate goal of manufacturing of our fulvic acid based crop and animal nutrient products. In October 2009, we completed the transfer of manufacturing business of our products from Inner Mongolia Yongye (which is under the control of Mr. Zishen Wu), to Yongye Nongfeng (Mr. Wu is also the CEO of Yongye Nongfeng), including all assets related to the manufacturing, distribution and sales as well as all applicable licenses and titles (the “Restructuring”). On October 10, 2009 the cooperative joint venture contract and Yongye Nongfeng’s articles of association were revised, and the profit distribution percentage and the post-dissolution remaining asset distribution percentage of Inner Mongolia Yongye in Yongye Nongfeng increased to 5% from the previous 0.5%. On July 20, 2010, Yongye Nongfeng set up a wholly-owned subsidiary, Yongye Fumin to expand the production capacity for fulvic acid based liquid and powder nutrient compounds. The limited operating history and the early stage of development of Yongye Nongfeng and Yongye Fumin may make it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. We cannot assure you that Yongye Nongfeng and Yongye Fumin will continue to maintain such profitability or that they will not incur net losses in the future. We expect that our operating expenses will increase as we pursue our growth strategies. Failure to manage our recent dramatic growth could strain our management, operational and other resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. We have been expanding our operations dramatically and believe we will continue to do so. To meet the demand of our customers, we expect to expand our distribution network in terms of numbers and locations. The rapid growth of our business has resulted in, and if we continue to grow at this rate, will continue to result in, substantial demands on our management, operational and other resources. In particular, the management of our growth will require, among other things: ·sufficient working capital and stringent cost controls; ·increased sales and sales support activities; ·improved administrative and operational systems; 20 ·continued responsibility for disclosure of material facts relating to our business; ·strengthening of financial and management controls; and ·hiring and training of new personnel. As we continue this effort, we may incur substantial costs and expend substantial resources. We may not be able to manage our current or future operations effectively and efficiently or compete effectively in new markets we enter. If we are not able to manage our growth successfully, our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We do not own 100% of the equity interests in Yongye Nongfeng, which may not be as stable and effective in providing operational control as 100% ownership and we may have conflicts of interests with our joint venture partner. We operate our business through Yongye Nongfeng. If there are disagreements between us and our cooperative joint venture partner, Inner Mongolia Yongye, regarding the business and operations of Yongye Nongfeng, we cannot assure you that we will be able to resolve them in a manner that will be in our best interests. In addition, our joint venture partner may (i) have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours; (ii) take actions contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives; (iii) be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations; (iv) have financial difficulties; or (v) have disputes with us as to the scope of their responsibilities and obligations. Any of these and other factors may materially and adversely affect the performance of Yongye Nongfeng, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on the cooperative joint venture contract with Inner Mongolia Yongye to operate our business. If Inner Mongolia Yongye fails to perform its obligations under the cooperative joint venture contract, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements and rely on legal remedies under PRC laws, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and damages, and we cannot assure you that such remedies would be effective. Accordingly, it may be difficult for us to change our corporate structure or to bring claims against Inner Mongolia Yongye if it does not perform its obligations under the cooperative joint venture contract. The cooperative joint venture contract is governed under PRC law. Accordingly, this agreement would be interpreted in accordance with PRC laws and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce the cooperative joint venture contract. In the event we are unable to enforce the cooperative joint venture contract, we may not be able to exert effective control over our operating entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. Mr Zishen Wu, our president and CEO, owns a controlling interest in Inner Mongolia Yongye. There could be conflicts of interests between his duties to us and his ownership interests in Inner Mongolia Yongye. We can provide no assurance that if conflicts of interests arise, these conflicts will not result in a significant loss in corporate opportunities for us or a diversion of our resources to Inner Mongolia Yongye, which may not be in our best interest. We may experience difficulty in collecting our accounts receivables, which could have a material and adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We derive our revenues from the sale of products through our distributors or and are subject to counterparty risks such as our distributors’ inability to pay. We offer various payment terms to our distributors. The credit period we grant and our credit policies are generally in line with market practice. Under our payment terms, we typically allow our distributors to pay the total purchase price within six months after the receipt of our products. Our peak selling seasons are normally the second quarter and the third quarter, accounting for 70%-80% of our full year sales. Payments for most of our sales made during peak seasons are generally collected in the fourth quarter and the first quarter of the following year. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, our accounts receivable amounted to US$153.6 million and US$26.1 million, respectively. The accounts receivable increased by US$127.5 million in 2011 as compared to 2010, representing an increase of 488.4%. This significant increase in accounts receivable is attributable to (i) our substantial sales increase by US$176.3 million from approximately US$214.1 million in 2010 to approximately US$390.4 million in 2011, which represents an increase of 82.3%; (ii) in 2011, we experienced significantly more sales in September, October and November than the corresponding months in 2010 amounting to US$45.2 million, which were usually non-peak season months in the past and which are to be collected in the first quarter and second quarter of 2012; and (iii) the significant increase of our accounts receivable turnover days from 27 days in 2010 to 90 days in 2011. The significant increase of our accounts receivable turnover days in 2011 was primarily due to the delayed payments by certain of our distributors which also conduct business in distribution of nitrogen, potash and phosphorus (“NPK”) fertilizers, in addition to our nutrient products. Since the NPK fertilizer suppliers typically have a substantially lower profit margin, the NPK fertilizer suppliers normally require distributors to pay deposit upfront at year end to guarantee the normal supply next year. In 2011, China tightened its monetary policy and it became very difficult to obtain financing from financial institutions. Thus our distributors were under greater liquidity pressure than before. In order to respond to the cash flow shortage caused by the tightened financing, such distributors took full advantage of our six month credit term to pay deposit for NPK fertilizer. 21 There can be no assurance that we will be able to improve our collection of accounts receivable from such distributors. The significant amount of accounts receivable and the increased accounts receivable turnover days may expose us to increasing risks associated with shortage of working capital, which may result in delay or difficulty in the delivery of our products and services and, in turn, our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the increased accounts receivable balance and turnover days increase our exposure to bad debt. Of the US$168.9 million of our gross accounts receivable as of December 31, 2011, US$11.6 million were past due, while we did not have any accounts receivable past due as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. All of those past due accounts receivable were subsequently collected in January 2012. We do not hold any collateral over our accounts receivable. Accounts receivable represents those receivables derived in the ordinary course of business. Accounts receivable is reported net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. We establish an allowance for doubtful accounts based on estimates of market condition and distributors’ financial status, aging analyses of accounts receivable balances, historical experience and other factors surrounding the credit risk of specific distributors. Past due balances of accounts receivable are reviewed individually for collectability. We recorded an allowance for doubtful receivables in the amount US$15.2 million as of December 31, 2011. Although we are taking measures, such as increasing collection efforts and closely monitoring distributor credit status to minimize the bad debt risk, we cannot assure you that such measures will be effective and the significant increase in bad debt may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the payment ability of our distributors, in turn, directly affects our revenue recognition. One of the criteria to recognize revenues is that the collectability of outstanding accounts receivable is reasonably assured. As such, deteriorating payment ability of our distributors will result in delay revenue recognition, until collectability can be reasonably assured which is generally upon cash receipt and, thus, have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. One or more of our distributors and retailers could engage in activities that are harmful to our brand and to our business. Due to our reliance on a distribution network that is comprised of provincial-level distributors, country-level distributors and Branded Retailers to sell our products, we are susceptible to our distributors and Branded Retailers engaging in activities that are harmful to our brand and business. If our distributors or Branded Retailers do not implement our branding strategy properly, including failure to use appropriate signage at Branded Retailers, our brand name may be damaged. In addition, if our distributors or Branded Retailers sell our products under another brand, purchasers will not be aware of our brand name. Moreover, our ability to provide appropriate customer service to these purchasers will be negatively affected, and we may be unable to develop our local knowledge of the needs of these customers. Furthermore, if any of our distributors or Branded Retailers sell inferior products produced by other companies under our brand name, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could make marketing of our products more difficult. If we are not able to obtain the requisite government approval to complete the mineral resources project or if the project renders fewer resources than expected, our vertical integration strategy could fail. In 2010, we entered into an agreement with Wuchuan Shuntong to acquire the permit for the rights to explore, develop and produce mineral resources in a certain area of Wuchuan County. The cash consideration of the permit was approximately RMB240 million or US$35 million. The permit allows us to complete all necessary administrative procedures and obtain government approvals to acquire the permit for the rights to explore, develop and produce humic acid bearing resources (“Mineral Rights”). We believe that the Mineral Rights will allow us to secure a long term supply of humic acid, which is a major raw material used in the manufacture of our products. In August 2011, Yongye Fumin, our wholly-owned subsidiary, obtained a Mineral Resource Exploration Permit for this project site in Wuchuan County, Inner Mongolia, which was issued by the Inner Mongolia Ministry of Land and Resources. Such approval granted us exclusive exploration rights for this project site for an initial period of three years beginning August 2, 2011. We are in the process of applying for the governmental approval for the Mineral Rights to develop and produce the mineral resources and are preparing for the relevant reports, including but not limited to a Geological Report and Geological Exploration Report. However, we cannot assure you that we can obtain the Mineral Rights to develop and produce the mineral resources in a timely manner, if at all. Furthermore, the nature and amount of the mineral resources in the Wuchuan project may not be the same as analyzed in the third-party preliminary reports obtained by us in 2009, and our supply of humic acid will be dependent upon market availability. If we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of raw materials at economically viable prices which meet our specifications, our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. 22 If we cannot renew our fertilizer registration certificate, we will be unable to sell our products which will cause our sales revenues to significantly decrease. All fertilizers produced in the PRC must be registered with the PRC Ministry of Agriculture or its local branches at a provincial level. No fertilizer can be manufactured without such registration. As part of the Restructuring process, Yongye Nongfeng applied for its initial fertilizer registration certificate in May 2009 and received it on June 1, 2009. On November 4, 2009, the long-term certificate with a five-year term was issued to Yongye Nongfeng. However, there is no guarantee that the PRC Ministry of Agriculture will further renew our fertilizer registration certificate. If we cannot obtain the necessary renewal, we will not be able to manufacture and sell our fertilizer products in China, which will cause the termination of our commercial operations. Our patent protected formulae, fulvic acid extraction and blending processes may become obsolete which could materially and adversely affect the competitiveness of our products. The production of our crop and animal nutrient products is based on our patented crop and animal product mixture processes and nutrient formulae. Our future success will depend upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by supporting existing and emerging fulvic acid products and by developing and introducing new products and enhancements to our existing products on a timely basis that keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. If our patented crop and animal nutrient product mixture processes and formulae become obsolete as our competitors develop better products, our future business and financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, although we entered into confidentiality agreements with our key employees, we cannot assure you if there would not be any breach of such agreement in which case our rights over such patented formulae would be adversely affected. We may not possess all the licenses required to operate our business, or may fail to maintain the licenses we currently hold. This could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition to a fertilizer registration certificate, we are required to hold a variety of other permits, licenses and certificates to conduct our business in China, including relevant construction and environmental permits and certificates in connection with the commencement of operations at Yongye Fumin. We may not possess or receive all the permits, licenses and certificates required for our business or for which application has been made. In addition, there may be circumstances under which the approvals, permits, licenses or certificates granted by the governmental agencies are subject to change without substantial advance notice, and it is possible that we could fail to obtain the approvals, permits, licenses or certificates that are required to expand our business as we intend. If we fail to obtain or to maintain such permits, licenses or certificates or renewals are granted with onerous conditions, we could be subject to fines and other penalties and be limited in the number or the quality of the products that we would be able to offer. As a result, our business, result of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Zishen Wu, our chairman, chief executive officer and president, has played an important role in the growth and development of our business since its inception, and a loss of his services in the future could severely disrupt our business and negatively affect investor confidence in us, which may also cause the market price of our common stock to go down. To date, we have relied heavily on Mr. Wu’s expertise in, and familiarity with, our business operations, his relationships within the industries in which we operate, his reputation and experience. In addition, Mr. Wu has been primarily responsible for formulating our overall business strategies and spearheading the growth of our operations. If Mr. Wu were unable or unwilling to continue in his present positions, we may not be able to easily replace him and may incur additional expenses to identify and train his successor. In addition, if Mr. Wu were to join a competitor or form a competing business, it could severely disrupt our business and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although Mr. Wu is subject to certain noncompetition restrictions during and after termination of his employment with us, we cannot assure you that such non-competition restrictions will be effective or enforceable under PRC law. Moreover, even if the departure of Mr. Wu from our Company would not have any actual impact on our operations and the growth of our business, it could create the perception among investors or the marketplace that his departure could severely damage our business and operations and could negatively affect investor confidence in us, which may cause the market price of our common stock to go down. In the event Mr. Wu ceases to be our chief executive officer or ceases to be engaged or to perform his duties on a full-time basis prior to December 31, 2014 (unless as a result of his death, disability or incapacity or events beyond our control or is approved by the holders of a majority of the shares of the convertible preferred stock then outstanding), the holders of our convertible preferred stock will be able to redeem all or a portion of the outstanding shares of convertible preferred stock at a redemption price equal to the original purchase price thereof, plus a premium designed to generate a 30% internal rate of return to such holders. We do not maintain key man insurance for Mr. Wu. 23 We depend heavily on our skilled personnel, and any loss of such personnel or the failure to continue to attract such personnel in the future could harm our business. Our business is specialized and requires the employment of personnel with significant scientific and operational experience in the industry. Accordingly, we must attract, recruit and retain a workforce of technically and scientifically competent employees. Due to the intense market competition for highly skilled workers and experienced senior management, we have faced difficulties locating personnel that have the necessary scientific, technical and operational skills and experience with the fertilizer industry. Our ability to effectively implement our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of qualified management and our key personnel. These individuals are difficult to find in the PRC and we may not be able to retain such skilled employees and replace them within a reasonable period of time, or at all. Our business may be severely disrupted, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we may incur additional expenses in recruiting and training additional personnel. Although our employees and senior management members are subject to certain non-competition restrictions during and after termination of their employment, we cannot assure you that such non-competition restrictions will be effective or enforceable under PRC law. If any of our key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing business, our business may be severely disrupted. We have no key man insurance with respect to our key personnel that would provide insurance coverage payable to us for loss of their employment due to death or other reasons. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and fragmented and we may not be able to maintain market share. We operate in highly competitive markets and compete with numerous local PRC humic or fulvic acid crop nutrient manufacturers, as well as other foliar-applied liquid fertilizer manufacturers and we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future. Our competitors are mainly local fertilizer companies who may have better access in certain local markets, stronger ability to customize products to a particular region or locality and more established local distribution channels within a specific region. In the future, we may also compete with large PRC state-owned enterprise national competitors, and they may have competitive advantages over us in certain areas such as access to capital, technology, product quality, economies of scale and brand recognition and may also be better positioned than us to develop superior product features and technological innovations and to exploit and adapt to market trends. Additionally, we may not be able to conduct in-depth research and analysis on our current or new markets due to the lack of enough public or third-party sources of information on our industry and competitors. Therefore, we may not have a clear estimate of the current number of our direct competitors or such competitors' revenues or market share. In addition, China’s entry into the World Trade Organization may lead to increased foreign competition for us. If our international competitors are localized and establish their market recognition in China, we may face additional competition. If we are not successful in our marketing and advertising efforts to increase awareness of our brands, our revenues could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price. We cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our existing markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competition. MSPEA Agriculture Holding Limited (“MSPEA”) has significant influence over our affairs. MSPEA currently owns 100% of the outstanding convertible preferred stock and approximately 10.3% of our common stock on an as converted basis. In addition, pursuant to certain rights granted to it under the Certificate of Designation, so long as MSPEA and its affiliates continue to own 25% of the convertible preferred stock initially issued to it, the holders of at least a majority of the shares of the convertible preferred stock have the right to designate one of the directors on our board of directors and have the ability to veto certain of our corporate actions or material transactions under some circumstances. As a result, MSPEA has significant influence over our business. 24 If we do not meet performance targets specified in the securities purchase agreement with MSPEA or if we issue equity securities at a price per share less than the then-applicable conversion price, the conversion price of the convertible preferred stock would decrease. Pursuant to the terms of the convertible preferred stock, if our net income for the period from fiscal year 2011 (inclusive) to the latest fiscal year with respect to which audited consolidated financial statements are available is below the net income targets of US$84 million for fiscal year 2011, US$210 million for the cumulative period of fiscal year 2011 through fiscal year 2012, US$399 million for the cumulative period of fiscal year 2011 through fiscal year 2013 and US$682.5 million for the cumulative period of fiscal year 2011 through fiscal year 2014 (the “Income Targets,” which Income Targets may be adjusted upwards in the event we issue any equity securities in the future without the prior written approval of the holders of the convertible preferred stock), the conversion price for the convertible preferred stock will decrease and the holders of our common stock could suffer significant dilution in the event of a conversion of any shares of convertible preferred stock. In addition, if we have not achieved any such Income Target and have engaged in certain additional issuances of our equity securities that are not approved in writing by holders of a majority of the convertible preferred stock then outstanding (subject to certain exceptions) but for which no adjustment was made to the Income Targets, Full Alliance has agreed to transfer to MSPEA or its affiliates for total consideration of US$1.00 an amount of shares of our common stock held by Full Alliance that MSPEA would otherwise receive upon conversion of the purchased shares, had the Income Target been so increased. As a result, MSPEA could acquire up to an additional 5,600,000 shares of our common stock currently held by Full Alliance, which shares have been pledged by Full Alliance to support the foregoing obligation. Additionally, as a result of a “full ratchet” anti-dilution provision in favor of holders of our convertible preferred stock, any future issuances of equity securities at a price per share less than the then-applicable conversion price that are not approved by a majority of such holders (subject to certain exceptions) will result in the conversion price being adjusted to the price at which such equity securities are issued. Upon the occurrence of certain events, we may be required to redeem all or a portion of the convertible preferred stock. Upon the occurrence of certain events, including, but not limited to, (i) a breach by us or Full Alliance of certain provisions of the financing documents, which breach gives rise to a material adverse effect on us or which materially diminishes the value of the convertible preferred stock, (ii) our failure to timely file our annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q, (iii) our failure to obtain certain mineral exploration rights without any additional material consideration, following which we fail to recover all of the proceeds for the original purchase of such mining rights on or prior to June 30, 2012 and (iv) Mr. Zishen Wu ceasing to be our chief executive officer or ceasing to be engaged or to perform his duties on a full time basis in that capacity prior to December 31, 2014 (unless as a result of his death, disability or incapacity or events beyond our control or is approved by the holders of a majority of the shares of the convertible preferred stock then outstanding), the holders of the convertible preferred stock have the right to require us to redeem all or a portion of their convertible preferred stock at a redemption price equal to the original purchase price, plus a premium designed to generate a 30% internal rate of return to the holders thereof. In addition, the holders of the convertible preferred stock have the right to require us to redeem all or a portion of their convertible preferred stock if (i) the quotient of the aggregate amount of the earnings per share of any six (6) rolling consecutive quarters commencing from the first quarter of the fiscal year 2010 onwards divided by the aggregate amount of the earnings per share of the corresponding six (6) quarter period one year preceding thereto is less than one hundred and twenty percent (120%), and (ii) the actual net income of any fiscal year from 2011 to 2014 (both inclusive) is lower than US$75 million in fiscal year 2011, US$101 million in fiscal year 2012, US$121 million in fiscal year 2013 and US$145 million in fiscal year 2014, in each case at a redemption price equal to the original purchase price, plus a premium designed to generate a 20% internal rate of return to the holders thereof. The foregoing earnings targets are subject to adjustment in certain circumstances including if we have engaged in certain additional issuances of our equity securities that are not approved in writing by holders of a majority of the convertible preferred stock then outstanding (subject to certain exceptions). If we are required to redeem the convertible preferred stock, we would need cash available, and to the extent that we do not have sufficient cash available and do not have access to bank debt, might have to liquidate assets to fund such redemptions. Any such liquidation may yield proceeds lower than might otherwise be the case. 25 If we need additional financing, we may not be able to find such financing on satisfactory terms or at all. Our capital requirements may be accelerated as a result of many factors, including the growth and timing of our business development activities, budget shortfalls, unanticipated expenses or capital expenditures, future product opportunities, future licensing opportunities and future business combinations. Consequently, we may need to seek additional debt or equity financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, and which may be dilutive to our stockholders. We may seek to raise additional capital through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution and, so long as MSPEA and its affiliates hold at least 1,420,455 shares of convertible preferred stock, we would need to obtain the approval of a majority of the shares of convertible preferred stock then outstanding (subject to certain exceptions). To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing debt securities, we may incur substantial interest obligations, may be required to pledge assets as security for the debt and may be constrained by restrictive financial and/or operational covenants. Any provider of debt financing would also be superior to our stockholders’ interest in bankruptcy or liquidation. To the extent we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on unfavorable terms. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, the value of our intellectual property rights could diminish. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. To date, we have received two patents for our crop and animal products with the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC. We have obtained a registered trademark for “Yongye” from the Trademark Office of the State Administration of Industry and Commerce of the PRC (“CTMO”). We have not obtained CTMO approval for the trademark “Shengmingsu” yet. Our cooperative joint venture partner, Inner Mongolia Yongye filed a trademark application for “Shengmingsu” with the CTMO in December 2007, prior to Yongye Nongfeng’s establishment. Inner Mongolia Yongye will transfer this trademark to Yongye Nongfeng upon procurement of trademark registration with the CTMO. In addition, we rely on trade secret protection for our proprietary process of extracting fulvic acid from humic acid and creating the base fulvic acid compound used in both our crop (liquid form) and animal nutrient (powder form) products. However, we cannot predict the degree and range of protection patents, trademarks and trade secrets will afford us against competitors. Third parties may find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our patents, proprietary technology and trademark. Third parties may attempt to obtain patents claiming aspects similar to our patent and trademark applications. If we need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings to protect our rights, such actions may be costly and may divert management attention as well as expend other resources which could otherwise have been devoted to our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, historically, implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries, which increases the risk that we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. If we infringe upon the rights of third parties, we could be subject to disputes or lawsuits and we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages and compelled to defend against litigation. If our products, formulae, methods, processes and other technologies infringe upon proprietary rights of other parties, we could be subject to disputes and lawsuits and could incur substantial costs, and may have to obtain licenses (which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all), redesign our products or processes, stop using the subject matter claimed in the asserted patents, pay damages, or defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose. All of the above could result in a substantial diversion of valuable management resources. We have taken reasonable steps, including comprehensive internal and external prior intellectual property right searches, to ensure we have freedom to operate and that our development and commercialization efforts can be carried out as planned without infringing others’ proprietary rights. However, we cannot guarantee that we will infringe upon no third-party intellectual property right, and we may be subject to a third-party infringement claim. Resolving such issues has traditionally resulted, and could in our case result, in lengthy and costly legal proceedings, the outcome of which cannot be predicted accurately. 26 A severe or prolonged downturn in the global economy could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The global market and economic conditions during the years 2008 through 2011 were unprecedented and challenging, with recessions occurring in most major economies. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, and the availability and cost of credit have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. The difficult economic outlook has negatively affected businesses and consumer confidence and contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. The PRC economy also faces challenges. The PRC government has implemented various measures recently to curb inflation. If economic growth slows or an economic downturn occurs, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We currently rely upon third-party suppliers for raw materials. We currently are dependent upon third parties for our supply of lignite coal, chemical components and other raw materials. Should any of our suppliers terminate their supply relationships with us, or if our suppliers have inadequate amounts of lignite coal or any such other raw materials to meet our needs, we may be unable to procure sufficient amounts of lignite coal or any such other raw materials on acceptable terms in a timely manner that meet our specifications or that meet the demands of our customers and our profitability may be limited. In addition, these suppliers may not perform their obligations, and it may not be possible to specifically enforce the relationships we have formed with such suppliers. If we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of lignite coal or any such other raw materials at economically viable prices which meet our specifications, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Any significant fluctuation in our production costs may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The prices for the raw materials and other inputs to manufacture our products are subject to market factors largely beyond our control, including the price of lignite coal, chemical components, our energy costs and freight costs. The costs for these inputs may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in the economy and markets. We may not be able to pass any increase of such costs through to our customers and we could incur significant losses. Disruptions in the supply of raw materials used in our products could cause us to be unable to meet customer demand, which could result in the loss of customers and sales. Currently, the lignite coal is the primary raw material that we use to manufacture our products. If there are any business interruptions at our key suppliers and we are unable to locate alternative supply in a timely manner, we may not be able to meet customer demand, which could result in the loss of customers and sales. We may be subject to more stringent governmental regulation on our products. The manufacture and sale of our products in the PRC is regulated by the PRC and the provincial government. The legal and regulatory regime governing our industry is evolving, and we may become subject to different, including more stringent, requirements than those currently applicable to us. While we believe a more stringent standard will have a bigger impact on those manufacturers with poor quality products, we cannot assure you any regulatory change will not adversely affect our business. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses due to business interruptions resulting from natural and man-made disasters, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover liabilities resulting from accidents or injuries that may occur. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited commercial insurance products. While we carry property insurance on our office building, production facility, raw materials and inventories in our Hohhot facilities, and carry auto insurance on our vehicles and maintain workers compensation insurance for our full-time workers, we do not carry any product liability insurance. We believe that current facilities are adequate for our current and immediately foreseeable operating needs. We have determined that balancing the risks of disruption or liability from our business, the cost of insuring for these risks on the one hand, and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms on the other hand, it is not economically practical for us to have such insurance. 27 Should any natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods, or any acts of terrorism occur in Inner Mongolia, where our primary operations are located and most of our employees are based, or elsewhere, we might suffer not only significant property damage, but also loss of revenues due to interruptions in our business operations. The occurrence of a significant event for which we are not fully insured or indemnified, and/or the failure of a party to meet its underwriting or indemnification obligations, could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Any disruption of the operations in our production facility would damage our business. All of our crop and animal nutrient products are currently manufactured in our production facility in Inner Mongolia, China. Our operations could be interrupted by fire, drought, flood, earthquake and other events beyond our control. In addition, in recent months there has been increasing social unrest in Inner Mongolia. This social unrest has led to protests, demonstrations and violence. Any disruption of the operations in our production facility, due to either environmental causes, social unrest or other events beyond our control, would have a significant negative impact on our ability to manufacture and deliver products. We could be unable to outsource our production on terms favorable to us, if at all. Failure to replace any lost production capability would cause a potential diminution in sales, the cancellation of orders, loss of valuable employees, damage to our reputation and potential lawsuits. The crop and animal nutrient products that we manufacture pose safety risks and could expose us to product liability claims. Defects in, or unknown harmful effects caused by, organic and inorganic chemicals and elements in our products could subject us to potential product liability claims that our products cause some harm to the human body or the crop and animals. Although we have adopted safety measures, which we believe meet industry standards, in our research, development and manufacturing processes, accidents may still occur. We do not carry any product liability insurance and any accident, either at the manufacturing phase or during the use of our products, may subject us to significant liabilities. Negative publicity about the safety of our products, whether justified or not, could damage our reputation, involve us in litigation, and damage our brand name and our business. As of the date of this report, no product liability claim has ever been brought against us. However, if we are involved in litigation in the future, our business, financial conditions and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. An outbreak of food scares in China would materially and adversely affect our business. Any major outbreak of food scares, such as the milk contamination scandal in the PRC in 2008, may result in significant disruptions to our business operations. A major food scare could result in considerable decreases in the demand for the products in which our products are used, which would materially and adversely affect our business and our profitability. Adverse publicity and concerns resulting from such a food scare may discourage consumers from purchasing products in which our products are used. Such a reduction in demand would adversely impact our financial performance and results of operations. Because we may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our current and future Chinese subsidiaries for our cash requirements, restrictions under Chinese law on their ability to make such payments could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions, pay dividends to our investors, and otherwise fund and conduct our businesses. We have adopted a holding company structure, and we rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our current and future PRC subsidiaries for their cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur or financing we may need for operations other than through our PRC subsidiaries. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC GAAP. Our PRC subsidiaries are also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of their after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to statutory reserves until such reserves reach 50% of the company’s registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserves and funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. Any limitation on the ability of our current or future PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. 28 If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price for shares of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, which is defined as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. As a public company, we have significant additional requirements for enhanced financial reporting and internal controls. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. We cannot assure you that we will not, in the future, identify areas requiring improvement in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that the measures we will take to remediate any areas in need of improvement will be successful or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future as we continue our growth. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the market price for shares of our common stock. Lack of experience as officers of publicly traded companies of our management team may hinder our ability to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. It may be time consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and implement the appropriate internal controls and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We may need to hire additional financial reporting, internal controls and other finance staff in order to develop and implement appropriate internal controls and reporting procedures. If we are unable to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s internal controls requirements, our auditor could not issue an unqualified opinion of our internal control over financial reporting. We have incurred increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we have incurred significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as the related rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations have increased our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and made certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. 29 Risks Associated With Doing Business in China Adverse changes in PRC economic and political policies could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our assets are located in China. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China and we anticipate that sales of our products in the PRC will continue to represent a substantial proportion of our total sales in the near future. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many aspects, including: ·the level of government involvement; ·the level of development; ·the growth rate; ·the level and control of capital investment; ·the control of foreign exchange; and ·the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past two decades, the growth has been uneven geographically, among various sectors of the economy and during different periods. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow or at the pace that has prevailed in recent years, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform. Any measures taken by the PRC government, even if they benefit the overall Chinese economy in the long-term, may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments. Although the Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in consumer demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to us. Unlike common law systems, the PRC legal system is based on written statutes and decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. Our PRC operating subsidiary is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. Yongye Nongfeng is subject to laws and regulations governing the formation and conduct of domestic PRC companies. Relevant PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements may change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings. Such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts and intellectual property rights, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with respect to the fertilizer and feed sector, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us. 30 Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our business. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our operating subsidiaries in China use RMB as their functional currency. Substantially all of our revenue and expenses are in Renminbi. We are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies. For example, the value of the Renminbi depends to a large extent on Chinese government policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments, as well as supply and demand in the local market. From 1994 to 2005, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to the U.S. dollar had generally been stable and the Renminbi had appreciated slightly against the U.S. dollar. However, on July 21, 2005, the PRC Government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi may fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 31% appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and December 31, 2011. It is possible that the PRC Government could adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuations of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. We can offer no assurance that the Renminbi will be stable against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Renminbi, the translation of foreign currency denominated transactions will result in reduced revenue, operating expenses and net income for our PRC operations. Similarly, to the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against the Renminbi, the translation of the foreign currency denominated transactions will result in increased revenue, operating expenses and net income for our PRC operations. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we translate the financial statements of Yongye Nongfeng and Yongye Fumin into U.S. dollars in consolidation. If there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the translation of our foreign subsidiaries’ financial statements into U.S. dollars will lead to a translation gain or loss which is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. In addition, we may have certain monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant entity’s functional currency. Changes in the functional currency value of these assets and liabilities result in foreign exchange gain or loss. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. The availability and effectiveness of any hedging transaction may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exchange rate risks. We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. Although we inform our personnel and other agents that such practices are illegal, we cannot assure you that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in foreign exchange regulations in the PRC may affect our ability to pay dividends in foreign currency or conduct other foreign exchange business. The Renminbi is not currently a freely convertible currency, and the restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside the PRC or to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars. The PRC government strictly regulates conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies. Over the years, foreign exchange regulations in the PRC have significantly reduced the government’s control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts. In the PRC, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, regulates the conversion of the Renminbi into foreign currencies. Pursuant to applicable PRC laws and regulations, foreign invested enterprises incorporated in the PRC are required to apply for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates”. Currently, conversion within the scope of the “current account” (e.g. remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, etc.) can be effected without requiring the approval of SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account” (e.g. for capital items such as direct investments, loans, securities, etc.) still requires the approval of SAFE. 31 In addition, on October 21, 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fundraising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies (“Notice 75”), which became effective as of November 1, 2005. Notice 75 replaced the two rules issued by SAFE in January and April 2005. According to Notice 75: ·prior to establishing or assuming control of an offshore company for the purpose of obtaining overseas equity financing with assets or equity interests in an onshore enterprise in the PRC, each PRC resident, whether a natural or legal person, must complete the overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures with the relevant local SAFE branch; ·an amendment to the registration with the local SAFE branch is required to be filed by any PRC resident that directly or indirectly holds interests in that offshore company upon either (1) the injection of equity interests or assets of an onshore enterprise to the offshore company, or (2) the completion of any overseas fund raising by such offshore company; and ·an amendment to the registration with the local SAFE branch is also required to be filed by such PRC resident when there is any material change in the capital of the offshore company that does not involve any return investment, such as (1) an increase or decrease in its capital, (2) a transfer or swap of shares, (3) a merger or division, (4) a long term equity or debt investment, or (5) the creation of any security interests. Moreover, Notice 75 applies retroactively. As a result, PRC residents who have established or acquired control of offshore companies that have made onshore investments in the PRC in the past are required to complete the relevant overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures by March 31, 2006. Under the relevant rules, failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in Notice 75 may result in restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant onshore company, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent or affiliate and the capital inflow from the offshore entity, and may also subject relevant PRC residents to penalties under PRC foreign exchange administration regulations. In addition, SAFE has, from time to time, issued updated internal implementing rules, or Implementing Rules, in relation to Notice 75. New Implementing Rules became effective on July I, 2011. Such Implementing Rules provide more detailed provisions and requirements regarding the overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures. However, even with the promulgation of the new Implementing Rules there still exist uncertainties regarding the SAFE registration for PRC residents’ interests in overseas companies. On December 25, 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange. On January 5, 2007, SAFE issued the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, which, among other things, specify approval requirements for a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notice on Issues concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Publicly-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rules, which replaced and substituted the Application Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas Publicly-Listed Company issued by SAFE in March 2007. According to the Stock Option Rules, if a PRC resident participates in any stock incentive plan of an overseas publicly-listed company, a qualified PRC domestic agent must, among other things, file on behalf of such participant an application with SAFE to conduct the SAFE registration with respect to such stock incentive plan and obtain approval for an annual allowance with respect to the purchase of foreign exchange in connection with the exercise or sale of stock options or stock such participant holds. Such participating PRC resident’s foreign exchange income received from the sale of stock and dividends distributed by the overseas publicly-listed company must be fully remitted into a specific domestic foreign currency account opened and managed by such PRC agent first, before distribution to such participants. We are an offshore listed company and, as a result, any Chinese employee, or foreign employee who resides in PRC more than one year consecutively, of Yongye Nongfeng or Yongye Fumin, including without limitation, directors, supervisors and other senior management staffs of Yongye Nongfeng or Yongye Fumin, who have been granted share options or shares under our 2010 Omnibus Securities and Incentive Plan are subject to the Stock Option Rules. If Yongye Nongfeng, Yongye Fumin or their qualified employees fail to comply with these regulations, they may be subject to fines or other legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other Chinese government authorities. 32 PRC regulations relating to mergers and acquisitions of domestic enterprises by foreign investors may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or SASAC, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, and SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or New M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009. The New M&A Rule purports, among other things, to require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for overseas listing purposes through acquisitions of PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC companies or individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, pursuant to the New M&A Rule and other PRC laws and regulations, the CSRC, in its official website, promulgated relevant guidance with respect to the issues of listing and trading of domestic enterprises’ securities on overseas stock exchanges (the “Related Clarifications”), including a list of application materials with respect to the listing on overseas stock exchanges by SPVs. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of the above rules, and CSRC has yet to promulgate any written provisions or formally to declare or state whether the overseas listing of PRC related company similar to the case of us shall be subject to the approval of CSRC. If CSRC approval is required in connection with our listing, our failure to obtain or delay in obtaining such approval could result in penalties imposed by CSRC and other PRC regulatory agencies. These penalties could include fines and penalties on our operations in China, restriction or limitation on remitting dividends outside of China, and other forms of sanctions that may cause a material and adverse effect to our business, operations and financial conditions. Notwithstanding those provisions, we are advised by our PRC counsel, Han Kun Law Offices, that CSRC approval is not required in the context of our listing because (i) we are not a special purpose vehicle formed or controlled by PRC companies or PRC individuals, (ii) we are owned or substantively controlled by foreigners, and (iii) establishment of Yongye Nongfeng is not subject to the New M&A rules because its establishment is through incorporation of a cooperative joint venture with Inner Mongolia Yongye, rather than through merger or acquisition. However, we cannot assure that the relevant PRC government agencies, including the CSRC, would reach the same conclusion, and we still cannot rule out the possibility that CSRC may deem our listing structure circumvents the New M&A rules, Related Clarifications and PRC Securities Law. Though the New M&A rules do not have express provisions in terms of penalties against non-procurement of CSRC approval, there are some other penalty provisions in other PRC laws and regulations regulating offshore listing, which can be cited as a reference: (i) Pursuant to Article 188 of the PRC Securities Law, any entity that issues securities or issues securities in disguised form without verification or examination and approval by the statutory authority shall be ordered to cease issuance and refund the funds thus raised, together with bank deposit interest for the same period, and shall also be fined not less than one percent but not more than five percent of the amount of the proceeds illegally raised. The persons directly in charge and the other persons directly responsible shall be given a disciplinary warning and also be fined not less than RMB30,000 but not more than RMB300,000. However, we believe that this penalty is mainly designed for and targeted at domestic listing because the PRC Securities Law mainly regulate domestic listings, and listing or de-listing of a company’s stock in the US stock market should be subject to the SEC’s regulation, which is beyond the CSRC’s jurisdiction. (ii) Pursuant to the Circular of the State Council Concerning Further Strengthening the Administration of Overseas Issuance and Listing of Securities, the overseas listing of securities of a PRC related company which violates this Circular shall be deemed an issuance of shares without authorization or approval. Persons in charge of the competent departments responsible for approval of such an overseas issuance could be subject to administrative sanctions if such person in charge is liable for such violation. People heading the issuing entity and other people directly responsible for issuance shall be penalized, including degraded to a lower lever position and termination of employment by the upper level department. If the violation constitutes a crime, criminal liability shall be claimed against relevant responsible persons according to applicable laws. The issuing entity, relevant agencies involved and the responsible people thereof shall be penalized by the CSRC in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Regulations on the Administration of Issuance and Trading of Securities and other relevant provisions. 33 Government regulations on environmental matters in China may adversely impact on our business. Our manufacturing operations are subject to numerous laws, regulations, rules and specifications relating to human health and safety and the environment. These laws and regulations address and regulate, among other matters, wastewater discharge, air quality and the generation, handling, storage, treatment, disposal and transportation of solid and hazardous wastes and releases of hazardous substances into the environment. In addition, third parties and governmental agencies in some cases have the power under such laws and regulations to require remediation of environmental conditions and, in the case of governmental agencies, to impose fines and penalties. We make capital expenditures from time to time to stay in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We believe that we have obtained all permits and approvals and filed all registrations required for the conduct of our business, except where the failure to obtain any permit or approval or file any registration would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with the numerous laws, regulations, rules, specifications and permits, approvals and registrations relating to human health and safety and the environment except where noncompliance would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC governmental authorities have not revealed any material environmental liability that would have a material adverse effect on us. We have not been notified by any governmental authority of any continuing noncompliance, liability or other claim in connection with any of our properties or business operations, nor are we aware of any other material environmental condition with respect to any of our properties or arising out of our business operations at any other location. However, in connection with the ownership and operation of our properties (including locations to which we may have sent waste in the past) and the conduct of our business, we potentially may be liable for damages or cleanup, investigation or remediation costs. In addition, in connection with environmental certification applications we have filed regarding our existing operations, the PRC governmental authorities could impose significant additional obligations prior to approving such applications, or could determine not to approve such applications. Any such additional obligation, or the denial of such applications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. No assurance can be given that all potential environmental liabilities have been identified or properly quantified or that any prior owner, operator, or tenant has not created an environmental condition unknown to us. Moreover, no assurance can be given that (i) future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability or (ii) the current environmental condition of the properties will not be affected by the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of the properties (such as the presence of underground storage tanks), or by third parties unrelated to us. State and local environmental regulatory requirements change often. It is possible that compliance with a new regulatory requirement could impose significant compliance costs on us. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have difficulty managing the risk associated with doing business in the Chinese fertilizer and feed sector. In general, the fertilizer and feed sector in China is affected by a series of factors, including, but not limited to, natural, economic and social such as climate, market, technology, regulation, and globalization, which makes risk management difficult. Fertilizer and feed operations in China face similar risks as present in other countries, however, these can either be mitigated or exacerbated due to governmental intervention through policy promulgation and implementation either in the fertilizer and feed sector itself or sectors which provide critical inputs to fertilizer and feed such as energy or outputs such as transportation. While not an exhaustive list, the following factors could significantly affect our ability to do business: ·food, feed, and energy demand including liquid fuels and crude oil; ·agricultural, financial, energy and renewable energy and trade policies; ·input and output pricing due to market factors and regulatory policies; ·production and crop progress due to adverse weather conditions, equipment deliveries, and water and irrigation conditions; and 34 ·infrastructure conditions and policies. Currently, we do not and do not intend to carry insurance to protect revenue which could be lost caused by any of the above factors. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. The PRC historically has been unaccustomed to and lacking in management and financial reporting concepts and practices as in the United States and other developed countries, as well as in modern banking, computer and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that as used in United States and other developed countries. We may have difficulty in establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of swine flu, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or other epidemics or outbreaks. From 2005 to 2009, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu and swine flu in various parts of China and elsewhere in Asia, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including, among other things, quarantines or closures of our factories and the facilities of our supplier and customers which could severely disrupt our operations. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or any other epidemics. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, it has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products do not rise at a rate that is sufficient to fully absorb inflation-driven increases in our costs of supplies, our profitability can be adversely affected. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been fluctuating quite significantly. The Chinese government, from time to time, has adopted various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit, regulate growth and contain inflation. In order to control inflation, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. The implementation of these and other similar policies can impede economic growth and thereby harm the market for our products and our business. Because our assets and operations are located in PRC, you may have difficulty enforcing civil liabilities against us under the securities and other laws of the United States or any state. We are a holding company, and most of our assets are located in the PRC. In addition, substantially all of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States, As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon these non-residents, or to enforce against them judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. There is uncertainty as to whether courts of the PRC would enforce: ·judgments of United States courts obtained against us or these non-residents based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or ·in original actions brought in the PRC, liabilities against us or non-residents predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. 35 Enforcement of a foreign judgment in the PRC also may be limited or otherwise affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. 36 We may not receive the preferential tax treatment we previously enjoyed under PRC laws, and our global income and dividends paid to us from our operations in China may become subject to income tax under PRC law. The rate of income tax on companies in China may vary depending on the availability of preferential tax treatment or subsidies based on their industry or location. The PRC government promulgated on March 16, 2007 the new Enterprise Income Tax Law, (“EIT Law”), and it’s implementing rules, which became effective January 1, 2008. Pursuant to the new law, the enterprise income tax of 25% shall be applied to any enterprise. However, Yongye Nongfeng received a High-Tech Enterprise Certificate which entitles it to a preferential tax rate of 15% for three years starting from January 1, 2010. There is no assurance we can renew our High-Tech Enterprise Certificate after it expires or if any new law may change the preferential treatment granted to us. Any loss or substantial reduction of the tax benefits enjoyed by us would reduce our net profit and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the new EIT Law also provides that dividends paid between “qualified resident enterprises” are exempt from enterprise income tax. Under the new EIT Law and its implementing rules, an enterprise established outside the PRC with its “de facto management body” within the PRC is considered a “resident enterprise” and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting, and properties of the enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret such a broad definition. Substantially most of our management members or business operations are based in the PRC. If the PRC tax authorities subsequently determine that we should be classified as a resident enterprise, then it is possible that our worldwide income will be subject to income tax at a uniform rate of 25%. In addition, under the new EIT law and its implementing rules, dividends paid by a foreign invested enterprise in the PRC to its foreign investor who is a non-resident enterprise will be subject to a 10% PRC withholding income tax (5% for a qualified Hong Kong beneficial owner), unless such tax is eliminated or reduced under an applicable tax treaty. Asia Standard Oil Limited (“ASO”), the 95% shareholder of Yongye Nongfeng, is incorporated in Hong Kong. Therefore, if ASO is considered a non-resident enterprise for purposes of the new EIT law, this new withholding income tax imposed on dividends paid to us by Yongye Nongfeng would reduce our net income in the event we decide to declare a dividend, which may have an adverse effect on our operating results. It is unclear whether the dividends we receive from Yongye Nongfeng will constitute dividends between “qualified resident enterprises” and would therefore qualify for the tax exemption because it is unclear as to (i) the detailed qualification requirements for such exemption and (ii) whether dividend payments by our PRC subsidiary and investee company to us will meet such qualification requirements, even if we are considered a PRC resident enterprise for tax purposes. Moreover, since ASO, the 95% shareholder of Yongye Nongfeng, is incorporated in Hong Kong, even if ASO is considered a non-resident enterprise, it is also unclear whether ASO should be considered as a Hong Kong beneficial owner. The beneficial owner means persons who possess ownership and right of control on their proceeds or rights or properties generated from such proceeds. The beneficial owner generally engages in substantive operation activities and may be individuals, companies or any other associations. Agents and companies for tax evasion purposes are not beneficial owner. If ASO is not considered Hong Kong beneficial owner, it will be subject to a 10% PRC withholding income tax. Dividends payable to our non-PRC investors and any gain on the sale of our shares may be subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. If our dividends payable to our shareholders are treated as income derived from sources within China, then those dividends, and any gain on the sale or transfer of our shares, may be subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, a withholding income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends paid by us to our investors that are non-resident enterprises so long as (i) any such non-resident enterprise investor does not have an establishment or place of business in China, or (ii) despite the existence of an establishment or place of business in China, the relevant income is not effectively connected with such an establishment or place of business in China and (iii) such dividends are derived from sources within PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of our shares by such investors is also subject to a 10% income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within China and we are considered a resident enterprise domiciled in China for tax purposes. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends paid to our foreign shareholders or investors who are non-resident enterprises, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our shares under the circumstances mentioned above, the value of your investment in our shares may be materially and adversely affected. 37 In January 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Provisional Measures for the Administration of Withholding of Enterprise Income Tax for Non-resident Enterprises (“Measures”). Entities which have the direct obligation to make the following types of payments to a non-resident enterprise will be the relevant tax withholders for such a non-resident enterprise: income from equity investment (including dividends and other return on investment), interest, rent, royalties, and income from assignment of property as well as other income subject to enterprise income taxes received by non-resident enterprises in China. Further, the Measures provide that in the case of an equity transfer of a PRC company’s equity interest between two non-resident enterprises outside of the PRC, the non-resident enterprise which receives the equity transfer payment shall file a tax declaration with the PRC tax authority located at the place of the PRC company whose equity has been transferred, and the PRC company whose equity has been transferred shall assist the tax authorities to collect taxes from the relevant non-resident enterprise. Moreover, the State Administration of Taxation released Circular Guoshuihan No. 698 (“Circular 698”) on December 10, 2009 that reinforces the taxation of certain equity transfers by non-resident investors through overseas holding vehicles. Circular 698 is retroactively effective from January 1, 2008. Circular 698 addresses indirect equity transfers as well as other issues. According to Circular 698, where a non-resident investor that indirectly holds an equity interest in a PRC resident enterprise through a non-PRC offshore holding company indirectly transfers an equity interest in the PRC resident enterprise by selling an equity interest in the offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the actual tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of its residents is not taxable, the non-resident investor is required to provide the PRC tax authority in charge of that PRC resident enterprise with certain relevant information within 30 days of the execution of the equity transfer agreement. The tax authorities in charge will evaluate the offshore transaction for tax purposes. In the event that the tax authorities determine that such transfer is abusing forms of business organization and a reasonable commercial purpose for the offshore holding company other than the avoidance of PRC income tax liability is lacking, the PRC tax authorities will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer under the doctrine of substance over form. If challenge of a transfer from the State Administration of Taxation is successful, it may deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes and subject the non-resident investor to PRC tax on the capital gain from such transfer. Since Circular 698 has a short history, there is uncertainty as to its application. We may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. If the PRC tax authority determines that Circular 698 applies to us (or a non-resident investor), we (or a non-resident investor) will be obligated to make a tax return filing with the relevant PRC tax authority in accordance with PRC tax laws and regulations. PRC regulation of direct investment and loans by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or limit our ability to use the proceeds of any offering of securities to make additional capital contributions or loans to our PRC operating business. Any capital contributions or loans that we, as an offshore company, make to our PRC operating business are subject to PRC regulations. For example, any of our loans to our PRC operating business cannot exceed the difference between the total amount of investment our PRC operating business are approved to make under relevant PRC laws and their respective registered capital, and must be registered with the local branch of SAFE as a procedural matter. In addition, our capital contributions to Yongye Nongfeng must be approved by MOFCOM or its local counterpart and registered with the SAIC or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these approvals on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to obtain such approvals, our ability to make equity contributions or provide loans to our PRC operating business or to fund its operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect its liquidity and its ability to fund its working capital and expansion projects and meet its obligations and commitments. Furthermore, SAFE promulgated a circular in August 2008 with respect to the administration of conversion of foreign exchange capital contribution of foreign invested enterprises into RMB. Pursuant to that circular, RMB converted from foreign exchange capital contribution can only be used for the activities within the approved business scope of such foreign invested enterprise and cannot be used for domestic equity investment unless otherwise allowed by PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may not be able to convert Yongye Nongfeng’s newly increased capital contribution into RMB for equity investment in China. 38 PRC labor law restricts our ability to reduce our workforce in the PRC in the event of an economic downturn and may increase our labor costs. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. To clarify certain details in connection with the implementation of the Labor Contract Law, the State Council promulgated the Implementing Rules for the Labor Contract Law, or the implementing Rules, on September 18, 2008 which came into effect immediately. The Labor Contract Law provides various rules regarding employment contracts that will likely have a substantial impact on employment practices in China. The Labor Contract Law imposes severe penalties on employers that fail to timely enter into employment contracts with employees. The employer is required to pay a double salary to the employee if it does not enter into a written contract with the employee within one month of the employment, and a non-fixed-term contract is assumed if a written contract is not executed after one year of the employment. Additionally, the Labor Contract Law sets a limit of two fixed-term contracts regardless of the length of each term, after which the contract must be renewed on a non-fixed-term basis should the parties agree to a further renewal unless otherwise required by the respective employee. This requirement curtails the common practice of continuously renewing short-term employment contracts. The Implementing Rules appear to further tighten this rule by suggesting that an employee has the right to demand a non-fixed-term contract upon the completion of the second fixed term regardless of whether the employer agrees to a contract renewal. A non-fixed-term contract does not have a termination date and it is generally difficult to terminate such a contract because termination must be based on limited statutory grounds. The employer can no longer supplement such statutory grounds through an agreement with the employee. In addition, the Labor Contract Law requires the payment of statutory severance upon the termination of an employment contract in most circumstances, including the expiration of a fixed-term employment contract. Under the Labor Contract Law, employers can only impose a post-termination non-competition provision on employees for a maximum period of two years. If an employer intends to maintain the enforceability of a post-termination non-competition provision, the employer has to pay the employee compensation on a monthly basis post-termination of the employment. Under the Labor Contract Law, a “mass layoff” is defined as termination of more than 20 employees or more than 10% of the workforce. The Labor Contract Law expands the circumstances under which a mass layoff can be conducted, such as when a company undertakes a restructuring pursuant to the PRC Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, suffers serious difficulties in business operations, changes its line of business, performs significant technology improvements, changes operating methods, or where there has been a material change in the objective economic circumstances relied upon by the parties at the time of the conclusion of the employment contract, thereby making the performance of such employment contract impractical. The employer must follow specific procedures in conducting a mass layoff. There is little guidance on what penalties an employer will suffer if it fails to follow the procedural requirements in conducting the mass layoff. Finally, the Labor Contract Law requires that the employer discuss the company’s internal rules and regulations that directly affect the employees’ material interests (such as employees’ salary, work hours, leave, benefits, and training, etc.) with all employees or employee representative assemblies and consult with the trade union or employee representatives on such matters before making a final decision. All of our employees based exclusively within the PRC are covered by these laws. As there has been little guidance and precedents as to how the Labor Contract Law and its Implementing Rules shall be enforced by the relevant PRC authorities, there remains uncertainty as to their potential impact on our business and results of operations. The compliance with the Labor Contract Law and its implementing Rules may increase our operating expenses, in particular our personnel expenses and labor service expenses. If we want to maintain the enforceability of any of our employees’ post-termination non-competition provisions, the compensation and procedures required under the Labor Contract Law may add substantial costs and cause logistical burdens to us. Prior to the Labor Contract Law such compensation was often structured as part of the employee’s salary during employment, and was not an additional compensation cost. In the event that we decide to terminate employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the Labor Contract Law and its Implementing Rules may also limit our ability to effect these changes in a manner that we believe to be cost-effective or desirable, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In particular, our ability to adjust the size of our operations when necessary in periods of recession or less severe economic downturns such as the recent financial turmoil may be affected. In addition, during periods of economic decline when mass layoffs become more common, local regulations may tighten the procedures by, among other things, requiring the employer to obtain approval from the relevant local authority before conducting any mass layoff. Such regulations can be expected to exacerbate the adverse effect of the economic environment on our results of operations and financial condition. 39 Failure to fully comply with PRC labor laws may expose us to potential liability. Companies operating in China must comply with a variety of labor laws, including certain social insurance, housing fund and other staff welfare-oriented payment obligations. While we believe we have complied with such obligations, there exist uncertainties as to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of such obligations. If relevant governmental authorities determine that we have not complied fully with such obligations, we may be in violation of applicable PRC labor laws and we cannot assure you that PRC governmental authorities will not impose penalties on us for any failure to comply. In addition, in the event that any current or former employee files a complaint with relevant governmental authorities, we may be subject to making up such staff-welfare oriented obligations as well as paying administrative fines. Risks Related to our Securities Our common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Although an active trading market has developed for our common stock, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will be sustained. Failure to maintain an active trailing market for our common stock may adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to sell our common stock in short time periods, or at all. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. Our common stock has experienced, and may experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations. Some of the factors that may materially affect the market price of our common stock are beyond our control, such as changes in financial estimates by industry and securities analysts, conditions or trends in the industry in which we operate or sales or our common stock. These factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of our restricted stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common stock. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”), subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a six-month holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading-volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitations, by a non-affiliate of our Company that has satisfied a one-year holding period. We have granted MSPEA and any other holders of the convertible preferred stock certain registration rights with respect to the common stock underlying the convertible preferred stock and any other shares of common stock they may otherwise own or acquire in the future. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus, including a resale prospectus used to register the common stock underlying the convertible preferred stock, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. There is a significant number of our common stock eligible for sale, which could depress the market price of such stock. Since September 23, 2011, the effective date of the registration statement that registered the common stock underlying our convertible preferred stock, a large number of our common stock has become available for sale in the public market, which could harm the market price of the stock. Further, shares may be offered from time to time in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, and these sales may have a depressive effect as well. In general, a person who has held restricted shares for a period of six months may, upon filing a notification with the SEC on Form 144, sell common stock into the market in an amount equal to the greater of one percent of the outstanding shares or the average weekly trading volume during the last four weeks prior to such sale. Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock and by the conversion of the convertible preferred stock, which could reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote. Subject only to any applicable stockholder approval requirements imposed by the Nasdaq Global Select Market, our board of directors has the authority to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock. Issuances of common stock would reduce your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote. The conversion of the convertible preferred stock will dilute your percentage ownership. 40 Stockholders should have no expectation of any dividends. To date, we have not declared nor paid any cash dividends. The Board of Directors does not intend to declare any dividends on our common stock in the near future, but instead intends to retain all earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. If we decide to pay dividends, foreign exchange and other regulations in China may restrict our ability to distribute retained earnings from China or convert those payments from Renminbi into foreign currencies. Techniques employed by manipulative short sellers in Chinese small cap stocks may drive down the market price of our common stock. Short selling is the practice of selling securities that the seller does not own but rather has, supposedly, borrowed from a third party with the intention of buying identical securities back at a later date to return to the lender. The short seller hopes to profit from a decline in the value of the securities between the sale of the borrowed securities and the purchase of the replacement shares, as the short seller expects to pay less in that purchase than it received in the sale. As it is therefore in the short seller’s best interests for the price of the stock to decline, many short sellers (sometime known as “disclosed shorts”) publish, or arrange for the publication of, negative opinions regarding the relevant issuer and its business prospects in order to create negative market momentum and generate profits for themselves after selling a stock short. While traditionally these disclosed shorts were limited in their ability to access mainstream business media or to otherwise create negative market rumors, the rise of the Internet and technological advancements regarding document creation, videotaping and publication by weblog (“blogging”) have allowed many disclosed shorts to publicly attack a company’s credibility, strategy and veracity by means of so-called research reports that mimic the type of investment analysis performed by large Wall Street firm and independent research analysts. These short attacks have, in the past, led to selling of shares in the market, on occasion in large scale and broad base. Issuers with business operations based in China and who have limited trading volumes and are susceptible to higher volatility levels than U.S. domestic large-cap stock, and can be particularly vulnerable to such short attacks. These short seller publications are not regulated by any governmental, self-regulatory organization or other official authority in the U.S., are not subject to the certification requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation AC (Regulation Analyst Certification) and, accordingly, the opinions they express may be based on distortions of actual facts or, in some cases, fabrications of facts. In light of limited risks involved in publishing such information, and the enormous profit that can be made from running just one successful short attack, unless the short sellers become subject to significant penalties, it is more likely than not that disclosed shorts will continue to issue such reports. While we intend to strongly defend our public filings against any such short seller attacks, often times we are constrained, either by principles of freedom of speech, applicable state law (often called “Anti-SLAPP statutes”), or issues of commercial confidentiality, in the manner in which we can proceed against the relevant short seller. You should be aware that in light of the relative freedom to operate that such persons enjoy — oftentimes blogging from outside the U.S. with little or no assets or identity requirements — should we be targeted for such an attack, our stock will likely suffer from a temporary, or possibly long term, decline in market price should the rumors created not be dismissed by market participants. In February, March, May and December of 2011, and January of 2012, there were reports published by the Seeking Alpha website, analysts, and other web-based publishers that contained misleading statements about us. Although we have responded to each of these reports in press releases dated February 7, 2011, March 24, 2011, May 19, 2011 and December 15, 2011, there are predictions that there will continue to be more short seller attacks against Chinese companies. As a result, the price of our stock remains vulnerable to any further attacks in this regard. We are the subject of pending class action lawsuits, which could require us to pay substantial damages or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. Following the publishing of certain reports on the Seeking Alpha website, analyst reports and other web-based articles, we and certain of our officers and directors were named in a number of class action lawsuits alleging, among other things, that we and such officers and directors issued false and misleading information to investors about our financial and business condition. On March 5, 2012, the plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed this action with prejudice as to themselves as named plaintiffs. We and certain of our officers and directors were named in a derivative lawsuit alleging that such officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties, wasted corporate assets and were unjustly enriched at expenses of our Company. While we believe the claims contained in these lawsuits to be without merit and intend to defend these cases vigorously, these efforts will be both expensive and time consuming and ultimately, due to the nature of the litigation, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. In addition, our bylaws, our amended articles of incorporation and an agreement we entered into in favor of MSPEA’s director in connection with the May 2011 financing require us to indemnify our directors for breaches of fiduciary duties, subject to certain limited exceptions. According to such documents, we are obligated to pay for certain costs and expenses of our directors and may be liable for substantial damages, costs and expenses if the plaintiffs prevail. Such litigation could also divert the attention of our management and our resources in general from day-to-day operations. 41 An SEC investor bulletin regarding reverse mergers may drive down the market price of our common stock. On June 9, 2011, the SEC issued an investor bulletin in which it explained the process by which a company becomes a public company by means of a reverse merger, described the potential risks of investing in a reverse merger company and detailed recent enforcement actions taken by it against certain reverse merger companies. In particular the investor bulletin raised specific concerns with respect to foreign companies that access the U.S. markets through the reverse merger process, as we did. The SEC investor bulletin could cause investors in our common stock to sell their shares and may cause other investors not to invest in us, thus driving down the market price of our common stock or making it more difficult for us to raise funds in the future. If our common stocks were delisted and determined to be “penny stocks,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stocks and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stocks in the secondary market. If our common stocks were removed from listing with the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we may be subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price per share of less than US$5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a “penny stock,” unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stocks were delisted and determined to be “penny stocks,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stocks and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stocks on the secondary market. Investors in penny stocks should be prepared for the possibility that they may lose their whole investment. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 