Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Business Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients’ businesses and levels of business activity. Global economic and political conditions affect our clients’ businesses and the markets they serve. The global economic downturn that began at the end of 2008 had an adverse impact on the volume of services we provide to our clients and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If current global economic conditions continue or worsen, our business could be adversely affected by our clients’ financial condition and the levels of business activity in the industries we serve. Continued high unemployment rates in the United States could also adversely affect the demand for our services. Changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. Negative or uncertain political climates, including adoption of restrictive legislation, in countries or geographies where we operate could also adversely affect us. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable effectively to plan for or respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. GE accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and any loss of business from, or change in our relationship with, GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have derived and are likely to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from GE. For 2009, 2010 and 2011, GE accounted for 40.3%, 38.0% and 30.2% of our revenues, respectively. In addition, our more mature client relationships, such as GE, typically generate higher margins than those from newer clients. The loss of business from GE could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our master services agreement, or MSA, with GE commits GE to purchase, on an annual basis through 2016, a stipulated minimum dollar amount of services or pay us certain costs in lieu thereof. The costs which GE would be required to pay if it does not meet a minimum annual commitment are not necessarily equal to the amount by which GE’s purchases fall short of that minimum annual commitment. While our revenues from GE in 2011 were $483.8 million, exceeding by $123.8 million the stipulated minimum annual amount for that year, there is no assurance that actual revenues from GE in future years will meet the minimum annual commitment or exceed it by as much as in 2011 or that GE will continue to be a client at all. Revenues in excess of the minimum annual commitment can be credited, subject to certain limitations, against shortfalls in subsequent years. In addition, the MSA provides that the minimum annual committed amount of $360 million will be reduced during the last three years of the term, to $250 million in 2014, $150 million in 2015 and $90 million in 2016. The MSA provides that the minimum annual committed amount is subject to reduction in certain circumstances, including as a result of the termination of any statements of work, or SOWs, by GE for cause, non-performance of services by us due to specified force majeure events or certain other reasons. The MSA also does not require GE to engage us exclusively in respect of business process services. In addition, pricing terms and pricing levels under future SOWs may be lower than in the past. In particular, because of the size of GE and its importance to our business it is able to exert considerable leverage on us when negotiating the terms of SOWs. 18 Table of Contents Our business from GE comes from a variety of GE’s businesses and decisions to use our services are currently, as a general matter, made by a number of people within GE. Therefore, although some decisions may be made centrally at GE, the total level of business we receive generally depends on the decisions of the various operating managers of such businesses. In addition, if GE sells or divests any of the businesses to which we provide services, the new management or new owners of such businesses may choose to discontinue our services. Finally, there can be no assurance that GE will not establish its own business unit to provide English-language business process services from low-wage countries or otherwise compete with us. Tax matters, new legislation and actions by taxing authorities may have an adverse effect on our operations, effective tax rate and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our tax expense and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including, but not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations and the potential adverse outcome of tax examinations. Changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, which may result from a decline in our profitability or changes in tax rates or legislation, could have a material adverse effect on our tax expense. The Government of India may assert that certain of our clients have a “permanent establishment” in India by reason of the activities we perform on their behalf, particularly those clients that exercise control over or have substantial dependency on our services. Such an assertion could affect the size and scope of the services requested by such clients in the future. The Government of India had served notice on the Company about its potential liability, as a representative assessee of GE, for Indian tax upon GE’s 2004 sale of shares of a predecessor of the Company. GE challenged the positions of the Government of India in the Delhi High Court, naming Genpact India (one of our subsidiaries) as necessary party but without seeking relief against Genpact India. We believe that if Indian tax were due upon that sale, it could not be successfully asserted against us as a representative assessee. Moreover, GE is obligated to indemnify us for any tax on its 2004 sale of shares. In a recent development, the Delhi High Court ruled that Genpact India cannot be held to be a representative assessee in this transaction. It is not clear whether the tax authorities would appeal this ruling to the Indian Supreme Court. In respect of certain of our global acquisitions (which included India-based subsidiaries) or the sale of our shares in our IPO by our existing significant shareholders, the Indian tax authorities may argue that the sellers have an Indian tax liability in as much as the indirect transfer of Indian subsidiaries is involved in the overall deal and may seek to tax us as a withholding agent or representative assessee of the sellers. The Indian Supreme Court has in a recent decision in the case of Vodafone International Holdings B.V. ruled that an indirect transfer of shares in an Indian company (through transfer of an overseas company) could not be taxed in India and accordingly would not be subject to Indian withholding tax requirements. There is no certainty that the Indian Supreme Court ruling in Vodafone will not be subsequently reversed and new or retroactive legislation could be passed by the Government of India effectively allowing for taxation of indirect transfers. The Government of India, the United States or other jurisdictions could enact new tax legislation which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our ability to repatriate surplus earnings from our Delivery Centers in a tax-efficient manner is dependent upon interpretations of local laws, possible changes in such laws and the renegotiation of existing double tax avoidance treaties. Changes to any of these may adversely affect our overall tax rate, or the cost of our services to our clients, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Over the past few years we have lost certain tax benefits provided to companies in our industry and it is not clear whether new tax policies will provide equivalent benefits and incentives. Under the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961, our Delivery Centers in India, from which we derived a significant portion of our revenues in fiscal 2011, benefitted from a ten-year holiday from Indian corporate income taxes in respect of their export income (as defined in the legislation) under the Software Technology Parks of India (“STPI”) Scheme. In the absence of this tax holiday, income derived from our Indian operations is taxed up to the maximum tax rate generally applicable to Indian enterprises, which, as of December 31, 2011, was 32.5%. The tax holiday enjoyed by our Delivery Centers in India under the STPI Scheme expired in full as of March 31, 2011. During the last five years, we established new centers that we believe are eligible for tax benefits under the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005. The SEZ legislation introduced a 15-year tax holiday scheme for operations established in designated “special economic zones” or SEZs. Under the SEZ legislation, qualifying operations are eligible for a deduction from taxable income equal to (i) 100% of their export profits (as defined in the legislation) derived for the first five years from the commencement of operations; (ii) 50% of such export profits for the next five years; and (iii) 50% of the export profits for a further five years, subject to satisfying certain capital investment requirements. The SEZ legislation provides, among other restrictions, that this holiday is not available to operations formed by splitting up or reconstructing existing operations or transferring existing plant and equipment (beyond a prescribed limit) to new SEZ locations. What percentage of our operations or income in India is eligible for SEZ benefits is variable, and depends, among other factors, upon how much of our business can be conducted at the qualifying locations and how much of that business can be considered to meet the restrictive conditions described above. While this is no longer new legislation, there is continuing uncertainty as to interpretation of certain provisions of the law. This uncertainty may delay development of our SEZ locations. The Direct Taxes Code Bill 2010 proposed by the Government of India and currently pending before Indian Parliament proposes the discontinuance of existing profit-based incentives for SEZ units operational after March 31, 2014 and replaces them with investment based incentives for SEZ units operational after that date. Now that the STPI tax holiday has expired, and as the SEZ legislation benefits phase-out, our Indian tax expense will materially increase and our after-tax profitability will be materially reduced, unless we can obtain comparable benefits under new legislation or otherwise reduce our tax liability. Consequently, our tax rate in India and our overall tax rate may increase over the next few years and such increase may be material and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, we enjoy corporate tax holidays or concessional tax rates in certain other jurisdictions like China, Philippines, Guatemala and Morocco. These tax concessions will expire over the next few years increasing our overall tax rate. If the transfer pricing arrangements we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate, our tax liability may increase. We have transfer pricing arrangements among our subsidiaries in relation to various aspects of our business, including operations, marketing, sales and delivery functions. U.S. and Indian transfer pricing regulations, as well as regulations applicable in other countries in which we operate, require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be on arm’s-length terms. We consider the transactions among our subsidiaries to be substantially on arm’s-length terms. If, however, a tax authority in any jurisdiction reviews any of our tax returns and determines that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, or that other income of our affiliates should be taxed in that jurisdiction, we may incur increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase, possibly materially, thereby reducing our profitability and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents We derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients in the United States. If events or conditions occur which adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We currently derive, and are likely to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from clients located in the United States. A number of factors could adversely affect our ability to do business in the United States, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The United States economy is still in a period of economic uncertainty, with continued high unemployment rates. Any deterioration in economic activity in the United States could adversely affect demand for our services, thus reducing our revenue. We could also be affected by decline in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Indian rupee, in which we incur the majority of our costs, or other currencies in which we incur costs. We may also be adversely affected by the enactment of laws in the United States that impose restrictions on, or taxation or other financial penalties with respect to, offshore outsourcing. Future legislation in the United States and other jurisdictions could significantly affect the ability or willingness of our clients and prospective clients to utilize our services. The issue of companies outsourcing services to organizations operating in other countries is a topic of political discussion in many countries. For example, many organizations and public figures in the United States have publicly expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore service providers and the loss of jobs in the United States. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to offshore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends toward offshore outsourcing would seriously harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that provide services from the United States. In the United States, measures aimed at limiting or restricting offshore outsourcing have been proposed. Such measures have been enacted in a few states, and there is currently legislation pending in several states and Congress. The measures that have been enacted to date generally have restricted the ability of government entities to outsource work to offshore business process service providers and have not materially adversely affected our business, primarily because we do not currently work for such governmental entities and they are not currently a focus of our sales strategy. However, some legislative proposals would, for example, require call centers to disclose their geographic locations, require notice to individuals whose personal information is disclosed to non-U.S. affiliates or subcontractors, require disclosures of companies’ foreign outsourcing practices, or limit eligibility for government contracts or financial incentives for companies that transfer work to foreign work locations. In addition, the current U.S. President has recently been encouraging U.S. businesses to insource functions, or return outsourced operations to the U.S. There can be no assurance that pending or future legislation in the United States that would significantly adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition will not be enacted. Legislation enacted in certain European jurisdictions and any future legislation in Europe, Japan or any other country in which we have clients restricting the performance of business process services from an offshore location could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, legislation enacted in the United Kingdom, based on the 1977 EC Acquired Rights Directive, which has been adopted in some form by many European Union, or EU, countries, provides that if a company outsources all or part of its business to a service provider or changes its current service provider, the affected employees of the company or of the previous service provider are entitled to become employees of the new service provider, generally on the same terms and conditions as their original employment. In addition, dismissals of employees who were employed by the company or the previous service provider immediately prior to that transfer are automatically considered unfair dismissals that entitle such employees to compensation. As a result, in order to avoid unfair dismissal claims we may have to offer, and become liable for, voluntary 21 Table of Contents redundancy payments to the employees of our clients in the United Kingdom and other EU countries who have adopted similar laws who outsource business to us. We believe that this legislation could materially affect our ability to obtain new business from companies in the EU and, after including the cost of the potential compensation paid for unfair dismissal claims or redundancies, to provide outsourced services to our current and future clients in the EU in a cost-effective manner. We may fail to attract and retain enough qualified employees to support our operations. Our industry relies on large numbers of skilled employees and our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. Historically, high employee attrition has been common in our industry. See Item 1—“Business—Our People.” In 2011, our attrition rate for all employees who were employed for a day or more was approximately 30.0%. We cannot assure you that we will be able to reduce our level of attrition or even maintain our attrition rate at the 2011 level. If our attrition rate increases, our operating efficiency and productivity may decrease. Despite current economic conditions, competition for qualified employees, particularly in India and China, remains high and we expect such competition to continue. We compete for employees not only with other companies in our industry but also with companies in other industries, such as software services, engineering services and financial services companies. In many locations in which we operate, there is a limited pool of employees who have the skills and training needed to do our work. If our business continues to grow, the number of people we will need to hire will increase. We will also need to increase our hiring if we are not able to maintain our attrition rate through innovative recruiting and retention policies. Significant competition for employees could have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business and service our clients, as well as cause us to incur greater personnel expenses and training costs. Wage increases in the countries in which we have operations may prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margin. Salaries and related benefits of our employees are our most significant costs. Most of our employees are based in India and other countries in which wage levels have historically been significantly lower than wage levels in the United States and Western Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage levels for comparably skilled employees in most of the countries in which we operate have increased and further increases are expected at a faster rate than in the United States and Western Europe because of, among other reasons, faster economic growth, increased competition for skilled employees and increased demand for business process services. We will lose this competitive advantage to the extent that we are not able to control or share wage increases with our clients. Sharing wage increases may cause our clients to be less willing to utilize our services. In addition, wage increases may reduce our margins. We will attempt to control such costs by our efforts to add capacity in locations where we consider wage levels of skilled personnel to be satisfactory, but we may not be successful in doing so. We may need to increase our wage levels significantly and rapidly in order to attract the quantity and quality of employees that are necessary for us to remain competitive, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have also increased, and expect to further increase, the number of employees we have in the United States from the levels than we have had historically, and this could have a negative effect on our profit margin. Currency exchange rate fluctuations in various currencies in which we do business, especially the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, with the remaining amounts largely in euros, pounds sterling and Japanese yen. Most of our expenses are incurred and paid in Indian rupees, with the remaining amounts largely in U.S. dollars, Chinese renminbi, pounds sterling, euros, Guatemalan quetzal, Hungarian 22 Table of Contents forints, Mexican peso, Moroccan dirham, Philippine pesos, Australian dollars, Polish zloty, South African rand, Romania leu, Hong Kong dollar, Singapore dollar, Arab Emirates dirham and Brazilian real. As we expand our operations to new countries, we will incur expenses in other currencies. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. The exchange rates between the Indian rupee and other currencies in which we incur costs or receive revenues, on the one hand, and the U.S. dollar, on the other hand, have changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. See Item 7A—“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Our results of operations could be adversely affected over time by certain movements in exchange rates, particularly if the Indian rupee or other currencies in which we incur expenses or receive revenues, appreciate against the U.S. dollar. Although we take steps to hedge a substantial portion of our Indian rupee-U.S. dollar, Mexican peso-U.S. dollar, Philippines peso-U.S. dollar, euro-U.S. dollar, euro- Romanian leu, euro-Hungarian forint, Pound Sterling-U.S. dollar, Australian dollar-U.S. dollar and our Chinese renminbi-Japanese yen foreign currency exposures, there is no assurance that our hedging strategy will be successful or that the hedging markets will have sufficient liquidity or depth for us to implement our strategy in a cost effective manner. In addition, in some countries such as India and China, we are subject to legal restrictions on hedging activities, as well as convertibility of currencies, which could limit our ability to use cash generated in one country in another country and could limit our ability to hedge our exposures. Finally, our hedging policies only provide near term protection from exchange rate fluctuations. If the Indian rupee or other currencies in which we incur expenses appreciate against the U.S. dollar, we may have to consider additional means of maintaining profitability, including by increasing pricing, which may or may not be achievable. See also Item 7—“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview—Foreign exchange (gains) losses, net.” Restrictions on entry visas may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our business depends on the ability of our employees to obtain the necessary visas and entry permits to do business in the countries where our clients and, in some cases, our Delivery Centers, are located. In recent years, in response to terrorist attacks and global unrest, immigration authorities generally, and those in the United States in particular, have increased the level of scrutiny in granting visas. If further terrorist attacks occur or global unrest intensifies, then obtaining visas for our personnel may become even more difficult. Local immigration laws may also require us to meet certain other legal requirements as a condition to obtaining or maintaining entry visas. Adverse economic conditions in countries where our clients may be located may create an environment where countries, including the United States, may restrict the number of visas or entry permits available. In addition, immigration laws are subject to legislative change and varying standards of application and enforcement due to political forces, economic conditions or other events, including terrorist attacks. If we are unable to obtain the necessary visas for our personnel who need to travel internationally, if the issuance of such visas is delayed or if the length of such visas is shortened, we may not be able to provide services to our clients or to continue to provide services on a timely and cost-effective basis, receive revenues as early as expected or manage our Delivery Centers as efficiently as we otherwise could, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The information technology industry is subject to rapid technological change and we may not be successful in addressing these changes. The information technology industry is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and new product introductions. The success of our information technology business depends, in part, upon our ability to develop solutions that keep pace with changes in the industry. We may not be successful in addressing these changes on a timely basis or successfully marketing any changes that we implement. In addition, products or technologies developed by others may render our services uncompetitive or obsolete. Failure to address these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Our senior leadership team is critical to our continued success and the loss of such personnel could harm our business. Our future success substantially depends on the continued service and performance of the members of our senior leadership team. These personnel possess business and technical capabilities that are difficult to replace. In particular, our Chief Executive Officer and other members of our senior leadership team have been involved in our business since its commencement under GE. Our employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer does not obligate him to work for us for any specified period. If we lose key members of our senior leadership team, we may not be able to effectively manage our current operations or meet ongoing and future business challenges, and this may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We often face a long selling cycle to secure a new contract as well as long implementation periods that require significant resource commitments, which result in a long lead time before we receive revenues from new relationships. We often face a long selling cycle to secure a new contract. If we are successful in obtaining an engagement, that is generally followed by a long implementation period in which the services are planned in detail and we demonstrate to a client that we can successfully integrate our processes and resources with their operations. During this time a contract is also negotiated and agreed. There is then a long ramping up period in order to commence providing the services. We typically incur significant business development expenses during the selling cycle. We may not succeed in winning a new client’s business, in which case we receive no revenues and may receive no reimbursement for such expenses. Even if we succeed in developing a relationship with a potential new client and begin to plan the services in detail, a potential client may choose a competitor or decide to retain the work in-house prior to the time a final contract is signed. If we enter into a contract with a client, we will typically receive no revenues until implementation actually begins. Our clients may also experience delays in obtaining internal approvals or delays associated with technology or system implementations, thereby further lengthening the implementation cycle. We generally hire new employees to provide services to a new client once a contract is signed. We may face significant difficulties in hiring such employees and incur significant costs associated with these hires before we receive corresponding revenues. If we are not successful in obtaining contractual commitments after the selling cycle, in maintaining contractual commitments after the implementation cycle or in maintaining or reducing the duration of unprofitable initial periods in our contracts, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to price appropriately, maintain asset utilization levels and control our costs. Our profitability is largely a function of the efficiency with which we utilize our assets, and in particular our people and Delivery Centers, and the pricing that we are able to obtain for our services. Our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new assignments, hire and assimilate new employees, forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforce and manage attrition, and our need to devote time and resources to training, professional development and other typically non-chargeable activities. The prices we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including our clients’ perceptions of our ability to add value through our services, competition, introduction of new services or products by us or our competitors, our ability to accurately estimate, attain and sustain revenues from client engagements, margins and cash flows over increasingly longer contract periods and general economic and political conditions. Therefore, if we are unable to price appropriately or manage our asset utilization levels, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability is also a function of our ability to control our costs and improve our efficiency. As we increase the number of our employees and grow our business, we may not be able to manage the significantly larger and more geographically diverse workforce that may result and our profitability may not improve. New taxes may also be imposed on our services such as sales taxes or service taxes which could affect our competitiveness as well as our profitability. 24 Table of Contents Our long selling cycle and implementation period make it difficult for us to prepare accurate internal financial forecasts and respond in a timely manner to offset fluctuations in our operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period. The long selling cycle for many of our services as well as the time required to complete the implementation phases of new contracts makes it difficult to accurately predict the timing of revenues from new clients or new SOWs as well as our costs. Our period to period results may also fluctuate due to changes in our costs or other unforeseen events. In addition, our results may vary due to currency fluctuations and changes in other global or regional economic and political conditions. We also may not generate predicted revenues from new product or service offerings. Due to these factors, our actual results may vary compared to our internal financial forecasts and our operating results in future reporting periods may be significantly below the expectations of the public market, securities analysts or investors. We enter into long-term contracts and fixed price contracts with our clients. Our failure to price these contracts correctly may negatively affect our profitability. The pricing of our services is usually included in SOWs entered into with our clients, many of which are for terms of two to five years. In certain cases, we have committed to pricing over this period with only limited sharing of risk regarding inflation and currency exchange rates. In addition, we are obligated under some of our contracts to deliver productivity benefits to our clients. If we fail to estimate accurately future wage inflation rates, currency exchange rates or our costs, or if we fail to accurately estimate the productivity benefits we can achieve under a contract, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A portion of our SOWs are currently billed on a fixed price basis rather than on a time and materials basis. We may increase the number of fixed price contracts we perform in the future. Any failure to accurately estimate the resources or time required to complete a fixed price engagement or to maintain the required quality levels or any unexpected increase in the cost to us of employees, office space or technology could expose us to risks associated with cost overruns and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. We could be liable to our clients for damages and subject to criminal liability and our reputation could be damaged if our information systems are breached or client data is compromised. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information or system failures. We are often required to collect and store sensitive or confidential client data to perform the services we provide under our contracts. Many of our contracts do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. If any person, including any of our current or former employees, penetrates our network security or misappropriates sensitive data or if we do not adapt to changes in data protection legislation, we could be subject to significant liabilities to our clients or to our clients’ customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client data, whether through breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, could also damage our reputation and cause us to lose existing and potential clients. We may also be subject to civil actions and criminal prosecution by government or government agencies for breaches relating to such data. Our insurance coverage for breaches or mismanagement of such data may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against us and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claims. We may be subject to claims for substantial damages by our clients arising out of disruptions to their businesses or inadequate service, and our insurance coverage may be inadequate. Most of our service contracts with clients contain service level and performance requirements, including requirements relating to the quality of our services. Failure to consistently meet service requirements of a client or errors made by our employees in the course of delivering services to our clients could disrupt the client’s 25 Table of Contents business and result in a reduction in revenues or a claim for damages against us. Additionally, we could incur liability if a process we manage for a client were to result in internal control failures or impair our client’s ability to comply with its own internal control requirements. Under our MSAs with our clients, our liability for breach of our obligations is generally limited to actual damages suffered by the client and is typically capped at the greater of an agreed amount or the fees paid or payable to us under the relevant agreement. These limitations and caps on liability may be unenforceable or otherwise may not protect us from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients or liability for breaches of confidentiality, are generally not limited under those agreements. Our MSAs are governed by laws of multiple jurisdictions, therefore the interpretation of such provisions, and the availability of defenses to us, may vary, which may contribute to the uncertainty as to the scope of our potential liability. Although we have commercial general liability insurance coverage, the coverage may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claims. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or changes in our insurance policies (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements), could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any failures to adhere to the regulations that govern our business could result in our being unable to effectively perform our services. Failure to adhere to regulations that govern our clients’ businesses could result in breaches of contract under our MSAs. Our clients’ business operations are often subject to regulation, and our clients may require that we perform our services in a manner that will enable them to comply with applicable regulations. Our clients are located around the world, and the laws and regulations that apply include, among others, United States federal laws such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, state laws on debt collection in the United States and the Financial Services Act in the United Kingdom as well as similar consumer protection laws in other countries in which our clients’ customers are based. Failure to perform our services in a manner that complies with any such requirement could result in breaches of contracts with our clients. In addition, we are required under various laws to obtain and maintain permits and licenses for the conduct of our business in all jurisdictions in which we have operations, including India, and, in some cases, where our clients receive our services, including the United States and Europe. If we do not maintain our licenses or other qualifications to provide our services or if we do not adapt to changes in legislation or regulation, we may have to cease operations in the relevant jurisdictions and may not be able to provide services to existing clients or be able to attract new clients. In addition, we may be required to expend significant resources in order to comply with laws and regulations in the jurisdictions mentioned above. Any failure to abide by regulations relating either to our business or our clients’ businesses may also, in some limited circumstances, result in civil fines and criminal penalties for us. Any such ceasing of operations or civil or criminal actions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our contracts contain provisions which, if triggered, could result in lower future revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Some of our contracts allow a client, in certain limited circumstances, to request a benchmark study comparing our pricing and performance with that of an agreed list of other service providers for comparable services. Based on the results of the study and depending on the reasons for any unfavorable variance, we may be required to make improvements in the services we provide or to reduce the pricing for services on a prospective basis to be performed under the remaining term of the contract, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our contracts, including our contract with GE, contain provisions that would require us to pay penalties to our clients and/or provide our clients with the right to terminate the contract if we do not meet 26 Table of Contents pre-agreed service level requirements. Failure to meet these requirements could result in the payment of significant penalties by us to our clients which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A few of our MSAs provide that during the term of the MSA and under specified circumstances, we may not provide similar services to the competitors of our client. Some of our contracts also provide that, during the term of the contract and for a certain period thereafter ranging from six to 12 months, we may not provide similar services to certain or any of our client’s competitors using the same personnel. These restrictions may hamper our ability to compete for and provide services to other clients in the same industry, which may inhibit growth and result in lower future revenues and profitability. Some of our contracts with clients specify that if a change of control of our company occurs during the term of the contract, the client has the right to terminate the contract. These provisions may result in our contracts being terminated if there is such a change in control, resulting in a potential loss of revenues. In addition, these provisions may act as a deterrent to any attempt by a third party to acquire our company. Some of our contracts with clients require that we bear the cost of any sales or withholding taxes or unreimbursed value-added taxes imposed on payments made under those contracts. While we have arranged our contracts to minimize the imposition of these taxes, changes in law or the interpretation thereof and changes in our internal structure may result in the imposition of these taxes and a reduction in our net revenues. Our industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. Our industry is highly competitive, highly fragmented and subject to rapid change. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets are breadth and depth of process and technology expertise, service quality, the ability to attract, train and retain qualified people, compliance rigor, global delivery capabilities, price, knowledge of industries served and marketing and sales capabilities. We compete for business with a variety of companies, including large multinational firms that provide consulting, technology and/or business process services, off-shore business process service providers in low-cost locations like India, in-house captives of potential clients, software services companies that also provide business process services and accounting firms that also provide consulting or outsourcing services. Some of our competitors have greater financial, marketing, technological or other resources and larger client bases than we do, and may expand their service offerings and compete more effectively for clients and employees than we do. Some of our competitors have more established reputations and client relationships in our markets than we do. In addition, some of our competitors who do not have global delivery capabilities may expand their delivery centers to the countries in which we are located which could result in increased competition for employees and could reduce our competitive advantage. The trend toward outsourcing and technological changes may result in new and different competitors entering our markets. There could also be newer competitors that are more powerful as a result of strategic consolidation of smaller competitors or of companies that each provide different services or service different industries. We expect competition to intensify in the future as more companies enter our markets. Increased competition may result in lower prices and volumes, higher costs for resources, especially people, and lower profitability. We may not be able to supply clients with services that they deem superior and at competitive prices and we may lose business to our competitors. Any inability to compete effectively would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we do not protect our intellectual property or if our services are found to infringe on the intellectual property of others. Our success depends in part on certain methodologies, practices, tools and technical expertise we utilize in designing, developing, implementing and maintaining applications and other proprietary intellectual property rights. In order to protect our rights in these various intellectual properties, we rely upon a combination of 27 Table of Contents nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements as well as trade secret, copyright and trademark laws. We also generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, clients and potential clients and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We also have submitted United States federal and foreign trademark applications for the names of additional service offerings. We may not be successful in maintaining or obtaining trademarks for these trade names. India is a member of the Berne Convention, an international intellectual property treaty, and has agreed to recognize protections on intellectual property rights conferred under the laws of other foreign countries, including the laws of the United States. There can be no assurance that the laws, rules, regulations and treaties in effect in the United States, India and the other jurisdictions in which we operate and the contractual and other protective measures we take, are adequate to protect us from misappropriation or unauthorized use of our intellectual property, or that such laws will not change. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights, and any such steps may not be successful. Infringement by others of our intellectual property, including the costs of enforcing our intellectual property rights, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we believe that we are not infringing on the intellectual property rights of others, claims may nonetheless be successfully asserted against us in the future. The costs of defending any such claims could be significant, and any successful claim may require us to modify, discontinue or rename any of our services. Any such changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A substantial portion of our assets and operations are located in India and we are subject to regulatory, economic, social and political uncertainties in India. We are subject to several risks associated with having a substantial portion of our assets and operations located in India. In recent years, we have benefited from many policies of the Government of India and the Indian state governments in the states in which we operate, which are designed to promote foreign investment generally and the business process services industry in particular, including significant tax incentives, relaxation of regulatory restrictions, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation. There is no assurance that such policies will continue. Various factors, such as changes in the current federal government, could trigger significant changes in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies and disrupt business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. In addition, our financial performance and the market price of our common shares may be adversely affected by general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy in India, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies, as well as social stability and political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future. In particular, India has experienced significant economic growth over the last several years, but faces major challenges in sustaining that growth in the years ahead. These challenges include the need for substantial infrastructure development and improving access to healthcare and education. Our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, develop and operate our Delivery Centers, and attract and retain clients could be adversely affected if India does not successfully meet these challenges. Our Delivery Centers are at risk of damage from natural disasters and other disruptions. Our Delivery Centers and our data and voice communications may be damaged or disrupted as a result of natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, heavy rains, epidemics, tsunamis and cyclones, technical disruptions such as electricity or infrastructure breakdowns, including damage to telecommunications cables, computer glitches and electronic viruses or man-made events such as protests, riots and labor unrest. Such events may lead to the disruption of information systems and telecommunication services for sustained periods. They also may make it difficult or impossible for employees to reach our business locations. Damage or destruction that interrupts our provision of services could adversely affect our reputation, our relationships with our clients, our leadership team’s ability to administer and supervise our business or it may cause us to incur substantial 28 Table of Contents additional expenditure to repair or replace damaged equipment or Delivery Centers. We may also be liable to our clients for disruption in service resulting from such damage or destruction. While we currently have commercial liability insurance, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient. Furthermore, we may be unable to secure such insurance coverage at premiums acceptable to us in the future or at all. Prolonged disruption of our services would also entitle our clients to terminate their contracts with us. Any of the above factors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may face difficulties as we expand our operations into countries in which we have no prior operating experience. We intend to continue to expand our global footprint in order to maintain an appropriate cost structure and meet our clients’ delivery needs. This may involve expanding into countries other than those in which we currently operate. It may involve expanding into less developed countries, which may have less political, social or economic stability and less developed infrastructure and legal systems. As we expand our business into new countries we may encounter regulatory, personnel, technological and other difficulties that increase our expenses or delay our ability to start up our operations or become profitable in such countries. This may affect our relationships with our clients and could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence involving any of the countries in which we or our clients have operations could adversely affect our operations and client confidence. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, such as the attacks in recent years in the United States, India, Spain and England, as well as outbreaks of violence in Mexico, may adversely affect worldwide financial markets and could potentially lead to economic recession, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. These events could adversely affect our clients’ levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. These events also pose significant risks to our people and to our Delivery Centers and operations around the world. Southern Asia has, from time to time, experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including India and Pakistan. In recent years, military confrontations between India and Pakistan have occurred in the region of Kashmir and along the India/Pakistan border. There have also been incidents in and near India such as terrorist attacks on the Indian Parliament and in the city of Mumbai, troop mobilizations along the India/Pakistan border and an aggravated geopolitical situation in the region. Such military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could influence the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult. Resulting political tensions could create a greater perception that investments in companies with Indian operations involve a high degree of risk, and that there is a risk of disruption of services provided by companies with Indian operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our share price and/or the market for our services. Furthermore, if India were to become engaged in armed hostilities, particularly hostilities that were protracted or involved the threat or use of nuclear weapons, we might not be able to continue our operations. We generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, military conflicts and wars. If more stringent labor laws become applicable to us or if our employees unionize, our profitability may be adversely affected. India has stringent labor legislation that protects employee interests, including legislation that sets forth detailed procedures for dispute resolution and employee removal and legislation that imposes financial obligations on employers upon retrenchment. Though we are exempt from some of these labor laws at present under exceptions in some states for providers of IT-enabled services, there can be no assurance that such laws will not become applicable to us in the future. If these labor laws become applicable to our employees, it may 29 Table of Contents become difficult for us to maintain flexible human resource policies and attract and employ the numbers of sufficiently qualified candidates that we need or discharge employees, and our compensation expenses may increase significantly. In addition, our employees may in the future form unions. If employees at any of our Delivery Centers become eligible for union membership, we may be required to raise wage levels or grant other benefits that could result in an increase in our compensation expenses, in which case our profitability may be adversely affected. We may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks. As part of our business strategy, we regularly review potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. Through the acquisitions we pursue, we may seek opportunities to add to or enhance the services we provide, to enter new industries or expand our Global Client base, or to strengthen our global presence and scale of operations. We have made acquisitions in the past, including Akritiv Technologies, Inc., Headstrong Corporation, Nissan Human Information Services Co., Ltd., High Performance Partners LLC and Empower Research, LLC in 2011, Symphony Marketing Solutions, Inc. in 2010 and E-Transparent B.V. and certain related entities in 2007, which are controlling partners in a partnership collectively known as ICE. There can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates in the future for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to accomplish our strategy, or be successful in entering into agreements for desired transactions. Acquisitions, including completed acquisitions, also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose clients or employees or could under-perform relative to expectations. We could also experience financial or other setbacks if transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to execution or integration. Following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. There can be no assurance that the seller will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us. Our principal shareholders exercise significant influence over us, and their interests in our business may be different from yours. A significant percentage of our issued and outstanding common shares are currently beneficially owned by General Atlantic and Oak Hill. As of December 31, 2011, each of General Atlantic and Oak Hill beneficially owned (through their affiliates) approximately 20% of our outstanding common shares. The shareholders agreement among General Atlantic, Oak Hill and us provides that General Atlantic and Oak Hill each has the right to nominate two directors to our board, so long as they maintain certain minimum shareholding thresholds, and the shareholders party to the agreement have agreed to vote their shares for the election of such persons. These shareholders can exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs and all matters requiring a shareholders’ vote, including the composition of our board of directors, the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bye-laws, the approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets, our dividend policy and our capital structure and financing. This concentration of ownership also may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these shareholders, even if such transactions are beneficial to other shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with your interests. General Atlantic and Oak Hill currently hold interests in companies that compete with us and they may, from to time, make significant investments in companies that could compete with us. In addition, pursuant to our bye-laws and our shareholders agreement and to the extent permitted by applicable law, our directors who are affiliated with General Atlantic and Oak Hill are not required to present to us corporate opportunities (e.g., acquisitions or new potential clients) that they become aware of unless such opportunities are presented to them expressly in their capacity as one of our directors. 30 Table of Contents We may become subject to taxation as a result of our incorporation in Bermuda or place of management, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have received a written assurance from the Bermuda Minister of Finance under The Exempted Undertaking Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda to the effect that if there is enacted in Bermuda any legislation imposing tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax shall not be applicable to us or to any of our operations or common shares, debentures or other obligations until March 31, 2035, except in so far as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or is payable by us in respect of real property owned or leased by us in Bermuda. We cannot assure you that a future Minister would honor that assurance, which is not legally binding or that after such date we would not be subject to any such tax. The Direct Taxes Code Bill, 2010 proposed by the Government of India and currently pending before Indian Parliament proposes certain new residency rules for companies whereby foreign companies could under certain conditions become residents for Indian tax purposes (and hence subject to Indian tax). If we were to become subject to taxation in Bermuda or any other jurisdiction as a result of our incorporation in Bermuda, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to realize the entire book value of goodwill and other intangible assets from acquisitions. As of December 31, 2011, we have approximately $925.3 million of goodwill and $113.3 million of intangible assets. We periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired and we monitor for impairment of goodwill relating to all acquisitions and our formation in 2004. We perform our impairment testing as of December 31 of each year, based on a number of factors including operating results, business plans and future cash flows. Impairment testing of goodwill may also be performed between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of goodwill below its carrying amount. In the event that the book value of goodwill is impaired, any such impairment would be charged to earnings in the period of impairment. We cannot assure you that future impairment of goodwill will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Shares Future sales of our common shares could cause our share price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of common shares by our employees and other shareholders, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the price of our common shares and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. As of December 31, 2011, each of General Atlantic and Oak Hill beneficially owned approximately 20% of our outstanding common shares. Such shareholders are able to sell their common shares in the public market from time to time without registering them, subject to certain limitations on the timing, amount and method of those sales imposed by Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Pursuant to our shareholders agreement, General Atlantic and Oak Hill have the right, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering all of the common shares which they own or to include those common shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves. Following their registration and sale under the applicable registration statement, those shares will become freely tradable. By exercising their registration rights and selling a large number of common shares, these holders could cause the price of our common shares to decline. In addition, the perception in the public markets that sales by them might occur could also adversely affect the market price of our common shares. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common shares, other than dividends paid by our predecessor company to GE in 2004. For the foreseeable future, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends 31 Table of Contents on our common shares. Our ability to pay dividends is also subject to restrictive covenants contained in our credit facility agreement governing indebtedness we and our subsidiaries have incurred or may incur in the future. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda, and Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to shareholders. Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a state of the United States. As a Bermuda company, we are governed by the Companies Act 1981 Bermuda, as amended, or the Companies Act. The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Generally, the duties of directors and officers of a Bermuda company are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies generally do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances. Directors of a Bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. Directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any contract or arrangement with the company or any of its subsidiaries. If a director of a Bermuda company is found to have breached his or her duties to that company, he may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. A director may be liable jointly and severally with other directors if it is shown that the director knowingly engaged in fraud or dishonesty. In cases not involving fraud or dishonesty, the liability of the director will be determined by the Bermuda courts on the basis of their estimation of the percentage of responsibility of the director for the matter in question, in light of the nature of the conduct of the director and the extent of the causal relationship between his or her conduct and the loss suffered. In addition, our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving or arising out of any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director to matters which would render it void pursuant to the Companies Act. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. In addition, the rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the United States, particularly the State of Delaware. Therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a state within the United States. The market price for our common shares has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price for our common shares has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies engaged in providing business process and information technology services; 32 Table of Contents • loss of one or more significant clients; • addition or loss of executive officers or key employees; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our clients or our competitors; • announcements of technological developments; • limited liquidity in our trading market; • sales or expected sales of additional common shares; and • terrorist attacks or natural disasters or other such events impacting countries where we or our clients have operations. In addition, securities markets generally and from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. You may be unable to effect service of process or enforce judgments obtained in the United States or Bermuda against us or our assets in the jurisdictions in which we or our executive officers operate. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda, and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Bermuda or in countries, other than the United States, where we have assets based on the civil liability or penal provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability or penal provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised by Appleby, our Bermuda counsel, that the United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on United States federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. Similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in countries, other than the United States, where we have assets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 