D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business is sensitive to the current global economic crisis. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global economy could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tight credit conditions and recession in most major economies continuing into 2010. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. The grim economic outlook has negatively affected business and consumer confidence and contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. The PRC economy also faces challenges in the short to medium term. The stimulus plans and other measures implemented by the PRC government may not work effectively or quickly enough to avert a severe downturn in economic activity. Continued turbulence in the international markets and prolonged declines in consumer spending, as well as any slowdown of economic growth in China, may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully manage our expansion into other Tier II cities, we will not be able to execute our business plan. Historically, our business and operations have been concentrated in Zhengzhou. Since 2006, we have been expanding our residential property development operations into other Tier II cities, consisting of Chengdu in Sichuan Province, Hefei in Anhui Province, Jinan in Shandong Province, and Suzhou, Kunshan and Xuzhou in Jiangsu Province. We plan to expand into other Tier II cities as suitable opportunities arise. The development of real estate projects in other Tier II cities will impose significant demands on our management and other operational resources. Moreover, we will face additional competition and will need to establish brand recognition and market acceptance for our developments in these new markets. Each of these Tier II cities has its own market conditions, customer requirements and local regulations related to the real estate industry. If we are unable to successfully develop and sell projects outside of our current markets, our future growth may be limited and we may not generate adequate returns to cover our investments in these Tier II cities. In addition, as we expand our operations to Tier II cities with higher land prices, our costs may increase, which may lead to a decrease in our profit margin, or impairments resulting from land value decreases. 5 Table of Contents Our business requires access to substantial financing. Our failure to obtain adequate financing in a timely manner could severely adversely (1) restrict our ability to complete existing projects, expand our business, or repay our debts and (2) affect our financial performance and condition. Our property development business is capital intensive. To date, we have funded our operations primarily through bank borrowings, shareholder loans, proceeds from sales and pre-sales of our properties and proceeds from issuance of equity and debt securities. We obtain commercial bank financing for our projects through credit lines extended on a case-by-case basis. Our ability to secure sufficient financing for land use rights acquisition and property development and repayment of our existing onshore and offshore debt obligations depends on a number of factors that are beyond our control, including lenders’ perceptions of our creditworthiness, market conditions in the capital markets, investors’ perception of our securities, the PRC economy and the PRC government regulations that affect the availability and cost of financing for real estate companies or the property purchasers. Since 2003, commercial banks have been prohibited, under guidelines of the PBOC, from advancing loans to fund the payment of land use rights and projects can be only partially funded based on loan-to-value ratios. In January 2010, the PRC State Council issued a circular to control the recent rapid increase in housing prices. The circular instructed the PBOC and the China Banking Regulatory Commission to tighten the supervision of the bank lending to the real estate sector. Subsequently, the PBOC raised the reserve requirement ratio for commercial banks by 0.5% to 16.5%. This was the second increase in 2010. The increase in the reserve requirement ratio will reduce the amount of commercial bank credit available to businesses in China, including us. We generate significant cash flow through pre-sales, which are subject to government restrictions. In particular, the PRC regulations on the pre-sales of properties generally provides that the proceeds from the pre-sales of a real estate project may only be used for the construction of such project. Any potential government restrictions on pre-sales could significantly increase our financing needs. Moreover, our ability to move cash through inter-company transfers or transfer funds from onshore subsidiary to offshore parent company is limited by PRC government regulations, limiting our ability to use excess cash resources in one subsidiary to fund the obligations of another subsidiary or the offshore parent company. Furthermore, various other PRC regulations restrict our ability to raise capital through external financing and other methods, including, without limitation, the following: • we cannot pre-sell uncompleted residential units in a project prior to achieving certain development milestones specified in related regulations; • we cannot borrow from a PRC bank for a particular project unless we fund at least 35% of the total investment amount of that project from our own capital; • we cannot borrow from a PRC bank for a particular project if we do not obtain the land use rights certificate for that project; • property developers are strictly restricted from using the proceeds from a loan obtained from a local bank to fund property developments outside the region where that bank is located; and • PRC banks are prohibited from accepting properties that have been vacant for more than three years as collateral for loans. As of December 31, 2009, our contractual obligations amounted to US$641.9 million, primarily arising from contracted construction costs or other capital commitments for future property developments and debt obligations. Of this amount, US$582.3 million is due within one year. In addition, in the last four months of 2009, we acquired five parcels of land total with an aggregate consideration of US$341.0 million, of which we have already paid US$190.8 million as of December 31, 2009, paid US$17.2 million in January 2010 and are required to pay off the remaining balance by May 2010. Moreover, our US$75.0 million floating rate notes will be due in April 2010 and the holder of our US$25.0 million convertible notes has the right to demand us to repurchase such convertible notes at 120% of the principal amount (plus accrued and unpaid interest) on June 15, 2010, unless we have exercised our redemption right to redeem such convertible notes upon a change in tax laws or regulations. There can be no assurance that our internally generated cash flow and external financing will be sufficient for us to meet our contractual and financing obligations in a timely manner. Due to the current measures imposed (as well as other measures that may be imposed by the PRC government in the future) which limit our access to additional capital, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient funding to finance intended purchases of land use rights, develop future projects or meet other capital needs as and when required at a commercially reasonable cost or at all. We may choose to explore potential refinancing arrangements with holders of our floating rate notes or convertible notes as well as other potential investors. Our failure to obtain adequate financing or refinance our floating rate notes or convertible notes in a timely manner and on reasonable terms could severely adversely (1) restrict our ability to complete existing projects, expand our business, or repay our debts and (2) affect our financial performance and condition. 6 Table of Contents We may be unable to acquire desired development sites at commercially reasonable costs. Our revenue depends on the completion and sale of our projects, which in turn depends on our ability to acquire development sites. Our land use rights costs are a major component of our cost of real estate sales and increases in such costs could diminish our gross margin. In China, the PRC government controls the supply of land and regulates land sales and transfers in the secondary market. As a result, the policies of the PRC government, including those related to land supply and urban planning, affect our ability to acquire, and our costs of acquiring, land use rights for our projects. In recent years, the government has introduced various measures attempting to moderate investment in the property market in China. Although we believe that these measures are generally targeted at the luxury property market and speculative purchases of land and properties, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not introduce other measures in the future that adversely affect our ability to obtain land for development. We currently acquire our development sites primarily by bidding for government land. Under current regulations, land use rights acquired from government authorities for commercial and residential development purposes must be purchased through a public tender, auction or listing-for-sale. Competition in these bidding processes has resulted in higher land use rights costs for us. In addition, we may not successfully obtain desired development sites due to the increasingly intense competition in the bidding processes. We may also need to acquire land use rights through acquisition, which could increase our costs. Moreover, the supply of potential development sites in any given city will diminish over time and we may find it increasingly difficult to identify and acquire attractive development sites at commercially reasonable costs in the future. Our current debt indentures contain certain financial and other covenants that restrict our ability to pay dividends, raise further debt and take other corporate actions which may adversely affect our business. In April 2007, we issued US$75 million of floating rate notes and US$25 million of convertible notes and entered into related indentures. These indentures contain a number of significant financial and other covenants. Such covenants restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt or guarantees, make restricted payments, make investments, pay dividends or distributions on our or our subsidiaries’ capital stock, repurchase our or our subsidiaries’ capital stock, pay subordinated indebtedness, make or repay inter-company loans or enter into non-ordinary course business transactions. Among other restrictions, we are limited in the dollar amount of mortgage guarantees we may provide if we do not maintain a minimum consolidated interest expense coverage ratio, or interest coverage ratio. As a result of the covenants, our ability to pay dividends or other distributions on our common shares and the ADSs may be limited. These covenants also restrict our ability to raise additional capital in the future through bank borrowings and debt and equity issuances and may restrict our ability to engage in some transactions that we expect to be of benefit to us. The covenants may also limit the amount of units we may sell in any period by limiting the amount of mortgage guarantees we can provide to purchasers if we do not maintain the requisite interest coverage ratio. The notes are secured by the mortgage of our shares in our wholly owned subsidiary, Xinyuan Ltd., which indirectly holds all of our assets and operations in China. If we default under the notes in the future, the holders may enforce their claims against these shares to satisfy our obligations to them. In such an event, the holders of our notes could gain ownership of the shares of our wholly owned Cayman subsidiary and, as a result, own and control all of our subsidiaries in China. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and all of our assets are located in China and, if we default under the notes, we would lose control or ownership of our assets and operations in China and there may be no assets remaining from which your claims could be satisfied. In addition, our floating rate notes and convertible notes are also secured by (i) the pledge of all of the Cayman subsidiary’s shares in Xinyuan (China) Real Estate, Ltd., or Xinyuan China and (ii) the pledge of a loan from the Cayman subsidiary to Xinyuan China. We provide guarantees for the mortgage loans of our customers which expose us to risks of default by our customers. We pre-sell properties before actual completion and, in accordance with industry practice, our customers’ mortgage banks require us to guarantee our customers’ mortgage loans. Typically, we provide guarantees to PRC banks with respect to loans procured by the purchasers of our properties for the total mortgage loan amount until the completion of the registration of the mortgage with the relevant mortgage registration authorities, which generally occurs within six to 12 months after the purchasers take possession of the relevant properties. In line with what we believe to be industry practice, we rely on the credit evaluation conducted by mortgagee banks and do not conduct our own independent credit checks on our customers. The mortgagee banks typically require us to maintain, as restricted cash, 0% to 10% of the mortgage proceeds paid to us as security for our obligations under such guarantees. The guarantees granted to the bank providing mortgages for our customers do not constitute continuing involvement by the Group under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Section 360, or SFAS 66, due to the large down payments (minimum of 20%) received from all customers in accordance with PRC laws. If a purchaser defaults on its payment obligations during the term of our guarantee, the mortgagee bank may deduct the delinquent mortgage payment from the security deposit. If the delinquent mortgage payments exceed the security deposit, the banks may require us to pay the excess amount. If multiple purchasers default on their payment obligations, we will be required to make significant payments to the banks to satisfy our guarantee obligations. Factors such as a significant decrease in housing prices, increase in interest rates or the occurrence of natural catastrophes, among others, could result in a purchaser defaulting on its mortgage payment obligations. If we are unable to resell the properties underlying defaulted mortgages on a timely basis or at prices higher than the amounts of our guarantees and related expenses, we will suffer financial losses. For the three years ended December 31, 2009, we experienced certain defaults on mortgage loans by our customers in an aggregate principal amount of approximately US$120,000. 7 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, our outstanding guarantees in respect of our customers’ mortgage loans amounted to US$209.6 million, US$384.0 million, and US$509.2 million, respectively. If substantial defaults by our customers occur and we are called upon to honor our guarantees, our financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our level of indebtedness could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, diminish our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to explore business opportunities. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance of our total indebtedness amounted to US$251.9 million. Our level of indebtedness could have an adverse effect on us. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to fund payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate; • limit our ability to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future or increase the cost of such funding; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploring business opportunities; and • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt. Our financing costs are subject to changes in interest rates. The rate of interest payable on our floating rate notes varies according to the six-month LIBOR. In addition, the rates of our long-term bank loans are adjustable based on the range of 95% to 135% of the PBOC benchmark rate. As of December 31, 2009, the principal amount of our aggregate outstanding variable rate debt was US$135.3 million. A hypothetical 1% increase in annual interest rates would increase our interest expenses by US$1.4 million based on our debt level at December 31, 2009. We may be required to record impairment charges in the future. If the projected profitability of a given project deteriorates due to a decline in the pace of unit sales, a decline in selling prices, or some other factor, such project is reviewed for possible impairment by comparing the estimated future undiscounted cash flows for the project to its carrying value. If the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less than the asset’s carrying value, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value. In the fourth quarter of 2008, Suzhou International City Garden was identified as an unprofitable project subject to recognition of impairment. On a quarterly basis we are required to conduct impairment tests on our projects. If business conditions deteriorate, there is a potential risk that future impairment charges will be recorded. We rely on third-party contractors. Substantially all of our project construction and related work are outsourced to third-party contractors. We are exposed to risks that the performance of our contractors may not meet our standards or specifications. Negligence or poor work quality by contractors may result in defects in our buildings or residential units, which could in turn cause us to suffer financial losses, harm our reputation or expose us to third-party claims. We work with multiple contractors on different projects and we cannot guarantee that we can effectively monitor their work at all times. Although our construction and other contracts contain provisions designed to protect us, we may be unable to successfully enforce these rights and, even if we are able to successfully enforce these rights, the third-party contractor may not have sufficient financial resources to compensate us. Moreover, the contractors may undertake projects from other property developers, engage in risky undertakings or encounter financial or other difficulties, such as supply shortages, labor disputes or work accidents, which may cause delays in the completion of our property projects or increases in our costs. We may be unable to complete our property developments on time or at all. The progress and costs for a development project can be adversely affected by many factors, including, without limitation: • delays in obtaining necessary licenses, permits or approvals from government agencies or authorities; • shortages of materials, equipment, contractors and skilled labor; • disputes with our third-party contractors; • failure by our third-party contractors to comply with our designs, specifications or standards; 8 Table of Contents • difficult geological situations or other geotechnical issues; • onsite labor disputes or work accidents; and • natural catastrophes or adverse weather conditions, including strong winds, storms, floods, and earthquakes. Any construction delays, or failure to complete a project according to our planned specifications or budget, may delay our property sales, which could harm our revenues, cash flows and our reputation. Under PRC laws and regulations and our pre-sale contracts, we are required to compensate purchasers for late delivery or failure to complete our pre-sold units. For the three years ended December 31, 2009, we paid an aggregate amount of US$1.3 million of compensation to our customers due to late delivery. If the delay extends beyond the contractually specified period, the purchasers may become entitled to terminate the pre-sale contracts and claim damages. Proceeds from pre-sale of our properties are an important source of financing for our property developments. Under PRC laws, we are not permitted to commence pre-sales until we have completed certain stages of the construction process for a project. Consequently, a significant delay in the construction of a project could restrict our ability to pre-sell our properties, which could extend the recovery period for our capital outlay. This, in turn, could have an adverse effect on our cash flow, business and financial position. Changes of laws and regulations with respect to pre-sales may adversely affect our cash flow position and performance. We depend on cash flows from pre-sale of properties as an important source of funding for our property projects. Under current PRC laws and regulations, property developers must fulfill certain conditions before they can commence pre-sale of the relevant properties and may only use pre-sale proceeds to finance the construction of the specific developments. On August 5, 2005, PBOC issued a report entitled “2004 Real Estate Financing Report,” in which it recommended that the practice of pre-selling uncompleted properties be discontinued because, according to the report, such activity creates significant market risks and generates transactional irregularities. This and other PBOC recommendations have not been adopted by the PRC government and have no enforceability. However, there can be no assurance that the PRC government will not ban the practice of pre-selling uncompleted properties or implement further restrictions on the pre-sale of properties, such as imposing additional conditions for a pre-sale permit or further restrictions on the use of pre-sale proceeds or that cities will not voluntarily suspend or restrict pre-sales. For example, the city of Nanning in the Guangxi providence (in which we do not have any operations) has announced that it will suspend pre-sales of commercial property for a trial period in 2010. Any measures prohibiting or further restricting pre-sales by the PRC government or province or city government affecting cities in which we operate will adversely affect our cash flow position and force us to seek alternative sources of funding for much of our property development business. Our results of operations may fluctuate from period to period. Our results of operations tend to fluctuate from period to period. The number of properties that we can develop or complete during any particular period is limited due to the substantial capital required for land acquisition and construction, as well as the development periods required before positive cash flows may be generated. In addition, several properties that we have developed or that are under development are large scale and are developed in multiple phases over the course of one to several years. The selling prices of the residential units in larger scale property developments tend to change over time, which may impact our sales proceeds and, accordingly, our revenues for any given period. The recognition of our real estate revenue and costs relies upon our estimation of total project revenues and costs. We recognize our real estate revenue based on the full accrual method and the percentage of completion method depending on the estimated project construction period. Under both methods, revenue and costs are calculated based on an estimation of total project costs and total project revenues, which are revised on a regular basis as the work progresses. Any material deviation between actual and estimated total project revenues and costs may result in an increase, a reduction or an elimination of reported revenues or costs from period to period, which will affect our gross profit and net income. We may be required to pay additional corporate income taxes in China. Based on the current levy method applied by the Zhengzhou local tax bureau, our subsidiaries in Zhengzhou are paying corporate income tax, or CIT, on a deemed profit basis, where taxable income is deemed to be 15% of cash receipts, regardless of actual income generated in that year. According to PRC tax regulations, the deemed profit basis should only be applicable to companies that are unable to keep accounting books or whose accounts are incomplete and inaccurate. These circumstances do not apply to us and, accordingly, we may be subject to CIT on our actual taxable income. We have made provision for the full amount of applicable CIT calculated in accordance with the relevant PRC tax laws and regulations, but we pay CIT each year as required by the local tax authorities. We cannot guarantee that we will not be required to pay additional taxes in accordance with the PRC tax laws and regulations or that our accrued deferred tax liabilities will be sufficient to cover any additional CIT payments we will be required to pay in the future with respect to past financial periods. 9 Table of Contents Dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The PRC Corporate Income Tax Law, or the CIT Law, and the Implementation for the CIT Law issued by the PRC State Council became effective as of January 1, 2008. The CIT Law provides that a maximum income tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council has reduced such rate to 10% through the Implementation for the CIT Law. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiaries. Thus, dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China may be subject to the 10% income tax if we are considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the CIT Law. If we are required under the CIT Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends received by us from our PRC subsidiaries. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the CIT Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The CIT Law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% corporate income tax rate as to their worldwide income (including dividend income received from subsidiaries). Under the Implementation for the CIT Law, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Under the Notice on the Issues Regarding Recognition of Overseas Incorporated Domestically Controlled Enterprises as PRC Resident Enterprises Based on the De Facto Management Body Criteria, which was retroactively effective as of January 1, 2008, an overseas incorporated domestically controlled enterprise will be recognized as a PRC resident enterprise if it satisfies certain conditions. However, it is still unclear whether PRC tax authorities would require (or permit) us to be treated as a PRC resident enterprise. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us could be exempt from Chinese dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the new CIT Law to a PRC resident recipient. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our ADSs may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the Implementation for the CIT Law, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the Implementation for the CIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ADSs, the value of your investment in our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. The relevant PRC tax authorities may challenge the basis on which we have been paying our land appreciation tax obligations and our results of operations and cash flows may be affected. Under PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries engaging in property development are subject to land appreciation tax, or LAT, which is levied by the local tax authorities. All taxable gains from the sale or transfer of land use rights, buildings and their attached facilities in the PRC are subject to LAT at progressive rates ranging from 30% to 60%. Exemptions are available for the sale of ordinary residential properties if the appreciation values do not exceed certain thresholds specified in the relevant tax laws. Gains from the sale of commercial properties are not eligible for this exemption. We have accrued all LAT payable on our property sales and transfers in accordance with the progressive rates specified in relevant tax laws, less amounts previously paid under the levy method applied by relevant local tax authorities. However, provisioning for LAT requires our management to use a significant amount of judgment with respect to, among other things, the anticipated total proceeds to be derived from the sale of the entire phase of the project or the entire project, the total appreciation of land value and the various deductible items. If the LAT provisions we have made are substantially lower than the actual LAT amounts assessed by the tax authorities in the future, our results of operations and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. We rely on our key management members. We depend on the services provided by key management members. Competition for management talent is intense in the property development sector. In particular, we are highly dependent on Mr. Yong Zhang, our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ms. Yuyan Yang, our co-founder and Mr. Tom Gurnee, our Chief Financial Officer. We do not maintain key employee insurance. In the event that we lose the services of any key management member, we may be unable to identify and recruit suitable successors in a timely manner or at all, which will adversely affect our business and operations. In 2008 particularly, we experienced high turnover at the COO, CAO, CFO and subsidiary general manager positions. Moreover, we may need to employ and retain more management personnel to support an expansion into other Tier II cities on a much larger geographical scale. If we cannot attract and retain suitable human resources, especially at the management level, our business and future growth will be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Increases in the price of raw materials may increase our cost of sales and reduce our earnings. Our third-party contractors are responsible for procuring almost all of the raw materials used in our project developments. Our construction contracts typically provide for fixed or capped payments, but the payments are subject to changes in government-suggested prices for certain raw materials we use, such as steel. Any increase in costs which may result in adjustments in payments under our construction contracts could result in an increase in our construction costs. In the event that the price of any raw materials, including cement, concrete blocks and bricks increases in the future, such increase could be passed on to us by our contractors, and our construction costs would increase accordingly. Any input cost increase could reduce our earnings to the extent we are unable to pass these increased costs to our customers. Our proposed acquisition of the 55% equity interest in Jiantou Xinyuan is subject to a public listing and auction process for the transfer of state-owned assets, unless the sellers obtain government approval for exemption from the process. If we are required to participate in the auction process, we cannot assure you that we will win the auction process to acquire such the equity interest at the terms we previously negotiated with the sellers, or at all. On September 25, 2009, we, through our indirectly wholly owned subsidiary Henan Xinyuan Real Estate. Co., Ltd., or Henan Xinyuan, `entered into an Equity Transfer and Profit Distribution Agreement, or ETA, with Zhengzhou General Construction Investment Company and Zhengzhou Jiantou Project Consulting Co., Ltd., or collectively the Sellers, to acquire their 55% interest in Jiantou Xinyuan, or the 55% Equity. We currently own the remaining 45% equity interest in Jiantou Xinyuan through Henan Xinyuan. As the Sellers are state-owned enterprises, our proposed acquisition of the 55% Equity is deemed a transfer of state-owned assets, which under the PRC laws and regulations are required to be sold or disposed of through a public listing and auction process unless a proposed sale or disposal has been exempted by the relevant authority from such listing and auction process. Under the ETA, the Sellers are responsible for obtaining the government approvals necessary for the transfer, including, if available, an exemption of the proposed transfer of the 55% Equity as contemplated under the ETA from the public listing and auction process. The Sellers have not obtained from the Zhengzhou municipal administration of state-owned assets an exemption of the proposed transfer. Accordingly, we currently anticipate that the Sellers will be required to list the 55% Equity in the local assets and equity exchange for a competitive auction and determine the purchaser of, and the transfer price for, the 55% Equity based on the results of such auction. The listing price will be based on an independent asset appraisal. We currently intend to participate in the auction process to make a bid based on the purchase price agreed in the ETA, but we cannot guarantee you that we will win the auction. As an existing shareholder of Jiantou Xinyuan, Henan Xinyuan is entitled to a right of first refusal on the sale of the 55% Equity. If any third party bidder participates in the auction, we currently plan to exercise such right to match any reasonable competitive bid that exceeds our bid price. However, even if we manage to win the auction for the 55% Equity, regardless of whether or not through exercising our right of first refusal, we cannot assure you that the final purchase price for the 55% Equity will not exceed the price as provided in the ETA or that the other terms of the final purchase will not be different from the terms we agreed with the Sellers in the ETA. Furthermore, we might decide not to enter the auction process, or exercise our right of first refusal with respect to the 55% Equity, if we determine that the listing price or the price bid by a third party is unreasonably high. In such an event, we would not acquire the 55% Equity and, depending on the results of the auction, we may have joint ownership of Jiantou Xinyuan with one or more new joint venture partners with whom we may not be familiar. If we do not develop and maintain a good relationship with such new partner(s), Jiantou Xinyuan’s results of operations may be adversely affected, which in turn may adversely affect our results of operations. We may engage in joint ventures, which could result in unforeseen expenses or disruptive effects on our business. From time to time, we may consider joint ventures with other businesses to develop a property. For example, one of our project companies, Jiantou Xinyuan, is a joint venture established under PRC Law. Any joint venture that we determine to pursue will be accompanied by a number of risks. We may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the joint ventures. We may not be able to control the quality of products produced by the joint venture. Depending on the terms of the joint venture agreement, we may require the consent of our joint venture partners for the joint venture to take certain actions, such as making distributions to the partners. In addition, our joint venture partners and the joint venture themselves may hold different views or have different interests from ours, and therefore may compete in the same market with us, in which case our interest and future development may be materially adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents If we do not maintain good relationships with our institutional shareholders, our business and operations may be adversely affected. Our institutional shareholders, Blue Ridge China Partners, L.P., or Blue Ridge China, and EI Fund II China, LLC, or Equity International, have substantial ownership of our shares. As of December 31, 2009, Blue Ridge China owned 18.4% of our outstanding share capital and Equity International owned 12.2% of our outstanding share capital. Each of Blue Ridge China and Equity International has appointed one director to our board. With this substantial ownership, our institutional shareholders may be able to successfully oppose certain shareholder actions even if they are supported by our principals, Mr. Yong Zhang and his spouse, Ms. Yuyan Yang, who beneficially owned 39.7% of our outstanding share capital, including actions related to mergers and consolidations and other significant corporate actions which would be important to our ability to conduct business. Since our IPO in December 2007, Blue Ridge China and Equity International no longer have any rights to appoint directors to our board, however, the two directors designated by them (Yue (Justin) Tang and Christopher J. Fiegen) are and will continue to be directors of our company until their resignation or removal. The two directors have memberships on various committees established under our board of directors, including our compensation committee and corporate governance and nominating committee. In the event we do not maintain good relationships with our institutional shareholders, one or both of these two directors may decide to resign from their memberships, in which case we would have vacancies on our board of directors and certain committees. If we were not able to fill these vacancies in a timely manner, it may impact the operations of our company and our corporate governance procedures. If we do not maintain a good relationship with either Blue Ridge China or Equity International, certain actions taken by our other shareholders may be successfully opposed, our corporate governance procedures may be weakened and our business operations may be adversely affected. We are a holding company that depends on dividend payments from our subsidiaries for funding. We are a holding company established in the Cayman Islands and operate all of our business and operations through our subsidiaries in China. Therefore, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and to service our indebtedness depends upon dividends that we receive from our subsidiaries in China. If our subsidiaries incur indebtedness or losses, such indebtedness or loss may impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us. As a result, our ability to pay dividends and to service our indebtedness will be restricted. Regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Each of our PRC subsidiaries, including wholly foreign-owned enterprises and domestic companies, is required to set aside at least 10.0% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves or statutory capital reserve fund until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50.0% of its respective registered capital. As of December 31, 2009, our statutory reserves under PRC GAAP amounted to US$24.4 million, and our accumulated deficit amounted to US$117.2 million. Our statutory reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. The indentures for our floating rate notes and convertible notes contain restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends. In addition, restrictive covenants in bank credit facilities, joint venture agreements or other agreements that we or our subsidiaries currently have or may enter into in the future may also restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to make contributions to us and our ability to receive distributions. Therefore, these restrictions on the availability and usage of our major source of funding may impact our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and to service our indebtedness. If the value of our brand or image diminishes, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We intend to continue promoting the “Xinyuan” brand in selected Tier II cities by delivering quality products and attentive real estate-related services to our customers. Our brand is integral to our sales and marketing efforts. Our continued success in maintaining and enhancing our brand and image depends to a large extent on our ability to satisfy customer needs by further developing and maintaining quality of service across our operations, as well as our ability to respond to competitive pressures. If we are unable to satisfy customer needs or if our public image or reputation were otherwise diminished, our business transactions with our customers may decline, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. Any unauthorized use of our brand or trademark may adversely affect our business. We own trademarks for “ ” in the form of Chinese characters and our company logo. We rely on the PRC intellectual property and anti-unfair competition laws and contractual restrictions to protect brand name and trademarks. We believe our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success. Any unauthorized use of our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights could harm our competitive advantages and business. Historically, China has not protected intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States or the Cayman Islands, and infringement of intellectual property rights continues to pose a serious risk of doing business in China. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use is difficult. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Furthermore, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China and abroad is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our brand, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, our reputation may be harmed and our business may be adversely affected. We may be subject to additional payments of statutory employee benefits. According to PRC central government and local regulations, we are required to pay various statutory employee benefits, including pensions, housing fund, medical insurance, work-related injury insurance, unemployment insurance and childbearing insurance for all employees, to designated government agents. We pay statutory employee benefits based on the local government pre-set contribution ratio, while we accrue provisions for unpaid employee benefits based on relevant central government regulations. We cannot be certain that such accrued amount will be sufficient to meet any additional employee benefits payments that we are required to pay in the future. In addition, we have underpaid certain employee benefits based on the local government pre-set ratio in the past. We may need to settle the underpaid amount plus late payment interest, and may also be subject to fines or penalties for the underpayment, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 12 Table of Contents We do not have insurance to cover potential losses and claims. We do not have insurance coverage against potential losses or damages with respect to our properties before their delivery to customers, nor do we maintain insurance coverage against liability from tortious acts or other personal injuries on our project sites. Although we require our contractors to carry insurance, we believe most of our contractors do not comply with this requirement. Our contractors may not be sufficiently insured themselves or have the financial ability to absorb any losses that arise with respect to our projects or pay our claims. In addition, there are certain types of losses, such as losses due to earthquakes, which are currently uninsurable in China. While we believe that our practice is in line with the general practice in the PRC property development industry, there may be instances when we will have to internalize losses, damages and liabilities because of the lack of insurance coverage, which may in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to obtain, or may experience material delays in obtaining, necessary government approvals for any major property development, which will adversely affect our business. The real estate industry is strictly regulated by the PRC government. Property developers in China must abide by various laws and regulations, including implementation rules promulgated by local governments to enforce these laws and regulations. Before commencing, and during the course of, development of a property project, we need to apply for various licenses, permits, certificates and approvals, including land use rights certificates, construction site planning permits, construction work planning permits, construction permits, pre-sale permits and completion acceptance certificates. We need to satisfy various requirements to obtain these certificates and permits. To date, we have not encountered serious delays or difficulties in the process of applying for these certificates and permits, but we cannot guarantee that we will not encounter serious delays or difficulties in the future. In the event that we fail to obtain the necessary governmental approvals for any of our major property projects, or a serious delay occurs in the government’s examination and approval progress, we may not be able to maintain our development schedule and our business and cash flows may be adversely affected. We may suffer a penalty or even forfeit land to the PRC government if we fail to comply with procedural requirements applicable to land grants from the government or the terms of the land use rights grant contracts. According to the relevant PRC laws and regulations, if we fail to develop a property project according to the terms of the land use rights grant contract, including those relating to the payment of land premiums, specified use of the land and the time for commencement and completion of the property development, the PRC government may issue a warning, may impose a penalty or may order us to forfeit the land. Specifically, under current PRC laws and regulations, if we fail to pay land premiums in accordance with the payment schedule set forth in the relevant land use rights grant contract, the relevant PRC land bureau may issue a warning notice to us, impose late payment penalties or even require us to forfeit the related land to the PRC government. The late payment penalties are usually calculated based on the overdue days for the land premium payments. Furthermore, if we fail to commence development within one year after the commencement date stipulated in the land use rights grant contract, the relevant PRC land bureau may issue a warning notice to us and impose an idle land fee on the land of up to 20% of the land premium. If we fail to commence development within two years, the land will be subject to forfeiture to the PRC government, unless the delay in development is caused by government actions or force majeure. Even if the commencement of the land development is compliant with the land use rights grant contract, if the developed GFA on the land is less than one-third of the total GFA of the project or the total capital invested is less than one-fourth of the total investment of the project and the suspension of the development of the land continues for more than one year without government approval, the land will also be treated as idle land and be subject to penalty or forfeiture. We and Jiantou Xinyuan, an entity in which we currently hold a 45% interest, have made late payments of land premiums in the past for which we and Jiantou Xinyuan were imposed penalties. Although we and Jiantou Xinyuan were imposed penalties for these late payments, neither we nor Jiantou Xinyuan have been required to forfeit land. In 2009, Jiantou Xinyuan recorded US$7.5 million in penalty charges and we absorbed our 45% share of the charge. If the final penalties paid by Jiantou Xinyuan exceed the amount previously recorded, our share of income from Jiantou Xinyuan could be further adversely affected as the property is developed and sold. We cannot assure you that circumstances leading to significant delays in our own land premium payments or development schedules or forfeiture of land will not arise in the future. If we pay a substantial penalty, we may not be able to meet pre-set investment targeted returns for a given project and our financial conditions could be adversely affected. If we forfeit land, we will not only lose the opportunity to develop the property projects on such land, but may also lose a significant portion of the investment in such land, including land premium deposits and the development costs incurred. 13 Table of Contents Any non-compliant GFA of our uncompleted and future property developments will be subject to governmental approval and additional payments. The local government authorities inspect property developments after their completion and issue the completion acceptance certificates if the developments are in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. If the total constructed GFA of a property development exceeds the GFA originally authorized in the relevant land grant contracts or construction permit, or if the completed property contains built-up areas that do not conform with the plan authorized by the construction permit, the property developer may be required to pay additional amounts or take corrective actions with respect to such non-compliant GFA before a completion acceptance certificate can be issued to the property development. We have obtained completion acceptance certificates for all of our completed properties as of December 31, 2009. However, we cannot be certain that local government authorities will not find the total constructed GFA upon completion of our existing projects under development or any future property developments to exceed the relevant authorized GFA. Any such non-compliance could lead to additional payments or penalty, which would adversely affect our financial condition. We have not incurred any such payments or penalties since the founding of the company. We may not be able to continue obtaining qualification certificates, which will adversely affect our business. Real estate developers in the PRC must obtain a formal qualification certificate in order to carry on a property development business in the PRC. According to the PRC regulations on qualification of property developers issued in 2000, a newly established property developer must first apply for a temporary qualification certificate with a one-year validity, which can be renewed for not more than two years. If, however, the newly established property developer fails to commence a property development project within the one-year period during which the temporary qualification certificate is in effect, it will not be allowed to renew its temporary qualification certificate. All qualification certificates are subject to renewal on an annual basis. Under government regulations, developers must fulfill all statutory requirements before they may obtain or renew their qualification certificates. In accordance with the provisions of the rules on the administration of qualifications, the real estate developer qualifications are classified into four classes and the approval system for each class is tiered. The approval for Class I Qualification is subject to examination by the construction authority under the State Council, that is, the central government, and the procedure for approval of developers for Class II Qualification or lower qualifications is administered by the construction authorities at the provincial-level of government. A real estate developer may only engage in the development and sale of real estate within the scope of its qualification certificate. For instance, a Class I developer is not restricted to the scale of real estate projects to be developed and may undertake real estate development projects anywhere in the country, while a Class II or below developer may undertake projects with construction area of less than 250,000 square meters per project. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Qualifications of Developer.” There can be no assurance that some of our project companies that are in the process of applying for proper qualification certificates will be able to obtain such certificates timely to commence their planned real estate projects development on schedule. There can be no further assurance that we and our project companies will continue to be able to extend or renew the qualification certificates or be able to successfully upgrade the current qualification class to a higher qualification. If we or our project companies are unable to obtain or renew qualification certificates, the PRC government will refuse to issue pre-sale and other permits necessary for the conduct of the property development business, and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be adversely affected. In addition, if any of our project companies engages in the development and sale of real estate outside the scope of its qualification certificate, it may be ordered to rectify such conduct within a prescribed period, imposed with a fine of up to RMB100,000, or even have its qualification certificate and business license suspended. Our failure to assist our customers in applying for property ownership certificates in a timely manner may lead to compensatory liabilities to our customers. We are required to meet various requirements within 90 days after delivery of property, or such other period contracted with our customers, in order for our customers to apply for their property ownership certificates, including passing various governmental clearances, formalities and procedures. Under our sales contract, we are liable for any delay in the submission of the required documents as a result of our failure to meet such requirements, and are required to compensate our customers for delays. In the case of serious delays on one or more property projects, we may be required to pay significant compensation to our customers and our reputation may be adversely affected. We could face possible regulatory sanctions for the lack of environmental impact assessments, or EIAs, for some of our projects in Zhengzhou, Henan Province. Under PRC environmental protection laws and regulations, a construction entity must conduct an EIA and submit an EIA report for a construction project to the competent administrative department of environmental protection for their examination and approval prior to the commencement of construction. Upon the completion of construction of the project, the construction entity must also seek environmental inspection of the construction project by the same administrative department of environmental protection and obtain its permission before the project can be put into use. A construction entity starting construction without approval of the EIA report may be ordered to comply with the foregoing formalities within a prescribed time limit, and the failure to do so may result in an order of suspension of construction work and a fine of up to RMB200,000 for the project in question. In addition, if a particular construction project fails to pass the environmental inspection and is denied permission to use approval, the project may fail to pass the completion acceptance inspection and may fail to obtain the completion acceptance certificate from the relevant administrative department of construction. Such failures may restrict both our ability to use proceeds from the pre-sales of the project even after the completion of construction and that of purchasers of such project from obtaining the title certificate for units they purchased on the project. Certain of our projects in Zhengzhou, Henan Province that did not conduct the EIA nor prepare and submit an EIA report for approval prior to commencement of construction nor did seek environmental inspection to obtain permission to use approvals. In the past, we were able to obtain the required completion acceptance certificates and title certificates from the competent administrative department of construction in Zhengzhou even for projects that failed to comply with EIA requirements prior to the commencement of construction and failed to obtain permission to commence use from the environmental protection authority. However, we note that the PRC government has put greater emphasis on environmental protection during recent years and that the local environmental authorities have in fact strengthened the implementation and enforcement of EIA-related regulations since early last year. Therefore, we cannot assure you that projects that did not conduct an EIA will not be assessed any sanctions described above in the future or that we will not experience any delay or difficulty in obtaining completion acceptance certificates and/or title certificates. Such sanctions or delay or difficulty may materially adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. We may become involved in legal and other proceedings from time to time and may suffer significant liabilities or other losses as a result. We have in the past, and may in future, become involved in disputes with various parties relating to the acquisition of land use rights, the development and sale of our properties or other aspects of our business and operations. These disputes may lead to legal or other proceedings and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management’s attention. Disputes and legal and other proceedings may require substantial time and expense to resolve, which could divert valuable resources, such as management time and working capital, delay our planned projects and increase our costs. Third parties that are found liable to us may not have the resources to compensate us for our incurred costs and damages. We could also be required to pay significant costs and damages if we do not prevail in any such disputes or proceedings. In addition, we may have disagreements with regulatory bodies in the course of our operations, which may subject us to administrative proceedings and unfavorable decrees that result in pecuniary liabilities and cause delays to our property developments. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to potential environmental liability. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws and regulations that apply to any given development site vary significantly according to the site’s location and environmental condition, the present and former uses of the site and the nature of the adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and can prohibit or severely restrict project development activity in environmentally-sensitive regions or areas. Although the environmental investigations conducted by local environmental authorities have not revealed any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations to date, it is possible that these investigations did not reveal all environmental liabilities and that there are material environmental liabilities of which we are unaware. We cannot assure you that future environmental investigations will not reveal material environmental liability. Also, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not change the existing laws and regulations or impose additional or stricter laws or regulations, the compliance of which may cause us to incur significant capital expenditure. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Environmental Matters.” If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring most public companies to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still issue a report that is qualified or adverse if it believes that the design or implementation of our internal controls is not effective, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Prior to 2007, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. We have been improving our internal control over financial reporting. During 2007 and 2008, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to lack of sufficient qualified financial reporting and accounting personnel to fulfill U.S. GAAP closing and reporting requirements. In 2008, we experienced high turnover of senior level finance and accounting staff members, including the Chief Financial Officer. For 2008, we identified a material weakness relating to our not having sufficient experienced personnel with the requisite technical skills and working knowledge of the application of U.S. GAAP relating to revenue recognition under percentage of completion, deferred income taxes, the financial statement close and reporting process and the evaluation of debt covenants relating to long-term debt. Based on the identified control risk, we have taken measures to reduce staff turnover in the accounting and finance department and provide additional training and cross-training to our existing personnel, including areas of new and emerging accounting standards and tax. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur considerable costs and devote significant management time and efforts and other resources to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Risks Relating to the Residential Property Industry in China The PRC government has recently introduced certain policy and regulatory measures to control the rapid increase in housing prices and cool down the real estate market and may adopt further measures in the future. Along with the economic growth in China, investments in the property sectors have increased significantly in the past few years. Since the second half of 2009, the PRC real estate market has experienced strong recovery from the financial crisis and housing prices rose rapidly in certain cities. In response to concerns over the scale of the increase in property investments, the PRC government has implemented measures and introduced policies to curtail property development and promote the healthy development of the real estate industry in China. 15 Table of Contents On January 7, 2010, the general office of the PRC State Council issued a circular to all ministries and provincial-level local governments. Such circular aimed to control the rapid increase in housing prices and cool down the real estate market in China. It reiterated that the purchasers of a second residential property for their households must make down payments of no less than 40% of the purchasing price and real estate developers must commence the sale within the mandated period as set forth in the pre-sale approvals and at the publicly announced prices. The circular also requested the local government to increase the effective supply of low-income housing and ordinary commodity housing and instructed the PBOC and the China Bank Regulatory Commission to tighten the supervision of the bank lending to the real estate sector and mortgage financing. On February 25, 2010, the PBOC increased the reserve requirement ratio for commercial banks by 0.5% to 16.5%. It is possible that the government agencies may adopt further measures (e.g., raising interest rates) to implement the policies outlined in this circular. Further, in order to implement the requirements set out in the State Council’s circular, the Ministry of Land and Resources, or the MLR, issued a notice on March 8, 2010 in relation to increasing the supply of, and strengthening the supervision over, land for real estate development purposes. MLR’s notice stipulated that the floor price of a parcel of land must not be lower than 70% of the benchmark land price set for the area in which the parcel is located, and that real estate developers participating in land auctions must pay a deposit equivalent to 20% of the land parcel’s floor price. The PRC government’s policy and regulatory measures on the PRC real estate sector could limit our access to required financing and other capital resources, adversely affect the property purchasers’ ability to obtain mortgage financing or significantly increase the cost of mortgage financing, reduce market demand for our properties and increase our operating costs. We cannot be certain that the PRC government will not issue additional and more stringent regulations or measures, which could substantially reduce pre-sales of our properties and cash flow from operations and substantially increase our financing needs, which would in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects. Measures implemented by the PRC government on the property development industry remain in force and further restrictive measures may be adopted in the future. Most of the restrictive regulations and measures implemented by the PRC government to curtail property development prior to the ongoing financial crisis remain in force. We believe the following regulations and policies, among others, significantly affect the property industry in China. In July 2006, the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development, or the MOHURD (formerly known as the Ministry of Construction), the National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, the PBOC, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC, and the SAFE issued Opinions on Regulating the Entry and Administration of Foreign Investment in the Real Estate Market, which impose significant requirements on foreign investment in the PRC real estate sector. For instance, these opinions set forth requirements of registered capital of a foreign invested real estate enterprise as well as thresholds for a foreign invested real estate enterprise to borrow domestic or overseas loans. In addition, since June 2007, a foreign invested real estate enterprise approved by local authorities is required to file such approvals with the Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM. As of July 1, 2008, the MOFCOM delegated its provincial branches to review the filing records in relation to foreign invested real estate enterprise’s establishment, capital increase, equity transfer, merger and acquisition, etc. Although this may accelerate the filing process, it does not eliminate the uncertainties surrounding filing as the material requirements for the filing process remain unchanged. We cannot assure you that any foreign invested real estate enterprise that we establish, or whose registered capital we increase after June 2007, will be able to complete the filing with the MOFCOM or its provincial branches. On October 31, 2007, the MOFCOM and the NDRC jointly issued the Catalogue of Industries for Guiding Foreign Investment, which took effect on December 1, 2007, restricting the construction and operation of high-end residential and commercial properties by Sino-foreign and other foreign investment entities. In addition, the development and construction of ordinary residential properties was removed from the “encouraged” category of investment, but continue to be a permitted type of investment. On July 10, 2007, the SAFE issued the Notice on Publicity of the List of the 1st Group of Foreign-Invested Real Estate Projects filed with the MOFCOM. This notice may strictly limit our capacity to raise funds offshore for the purpose of funding our PRC subsidiaries by means of increasing their registered capital or extending shareholders’ loans. The PRC government’s restrictive regulations and measures could increase our operating costs in adapting to these regulations and measures, limit our access to capital resources or even restrict our business operations. We cannot be certain that the PRC government will not issue additional and more stringent regulations or measures, which could further adversely affect our business and prospects. We are heavily dependent on the performance of the residential property market in China, which is at a relatively early development stage. The residential property industry in the PRC is still in a relatively early stage of development. Although demand for residential property in the PRC has been growing rapidly in recent years, such growth is often coupled with volatility in market conditions and fluctuation in property prices. It is extremely difficult to predict how much and when demand will develop, as many social, political, economic, legal and other factors, most of which are beyond our control, may affect the development of the market. The level of uncertainty is increased by the limited availability of accurate financial and market information as well as the overall low level of transparency in the PRC, especially in Tier II cities which have lagged in progress in these aspects when compared to Tier I cities. 16 Table of Contents We face intense competition from other real estate developers. The property industry in the PRC is highly competitive. In the Tier II cities we focus on, local and regional property developers are our major competitors, and an increasing number of large state-owned and private national property developers have started entering these markets. Many of our competitors, especially the state-owned and private national property developers, are well capitalized and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Some also have larger land banks, greater economies of scale, broader name recognition, a longer track record and more established relationships in certain markets. In addition, the PRC government’s recent measures designed to reduce land supply further increased competition for land among property developers. Competition among property developers may result in increased costs for the acquisition of land for development, increased costs for raw materials, shortages of skilled contractors, oversupply of properties, decrease in property prices in certain parts of the PRC, a slowdown in the rate at which new property developments will be approved and/or reviewed by the relevant government authorities and an increase in administrative costs for hiring or retaining qualified personnel, any of which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Furthermore, property developers that are better capitalized than we are may be more competitive in acquiring land through the auction process. If we cannot respond to changes in market conditions as promptly and effectively as our competitors, or effectively compete for land acquisition through the auction systems and acquire other factors of production, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. In addition, risk of property over-supply is increasing in parts of China, where property investment, trading and speculation have become overly active. We are exposed to the risk that in the event of actual or perceived over-supply, property prices may fall drastically, and our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected. Our sales will be affected if mortgage financing becomes more costly or otherwise becomes less attractive. Substantially all purchasers of our residential properties rely on mortgages to fund their purchases. An increase in interest rates may significantly increase the cost of mortgage financing, thus affecting the affordability of residential properties. In order to promote the healthy development of Chinese property market during the global financial and economic crisis experienced in the latter half of 2008, the PBOC issued the Circular on Further Decreasing the Loan Interest Rate for Non-Welfare Residential Property and Other Relevant Issues, or Circular 302, on October 22, 2008. This Circular provides that, as of October 27, 2008, the lowest applicable loan interest rate for non-welfare residential property is reduced to 70% of the benchmark interest rate and the lowest applicable down payment ratio is reduced to 20% of the total purchase price. Financial institutions must determine the applicable loan interest rate and down-payment ratio for non-welfare residential property according to the following factors: (i) whether the borrower is purchasing a property for the first time; (ii) whether the borrower is purchasing the property for his own use; (iii) whether the property purchased is an ordinary residential property; and (iv) risk factors including the borrower’s credit records and payment ability. However, some commercial banks have imposed certain restrictive conditions in their detailed measures implementing Circular 302, including the requirement that only borrowers who meet the restrictive conditions stated in the measures are entitled to receive the preferential interest rate. In addition, mortgagee banks may not lend to any individual borrower if the monthly repayment of the anticipated mortgage loan would exceed 50% of the individual borrower’s monthly income or if the total debt service of the individual borrower would exceed 55% of such individual’s monthly income. If the availability or attractiveness of mortgage financing is reduced or limited, many of our prospective customers may not be able to purchase our properties and, as a result, our business, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. In line with industry practice, we provide guarantees to PRC banks with respect to loans procured by the purchasers of our properties for the total amount of mortgage loans. Such guarantees expire upon the completion of the registration of the mortgage with the relevant mortgage registration authorities. If there are changes in laws, regulations, policies and practices that would prohibit property developers from providing guarantees to banks in respect of mortgages offered to property purchasers and as a result, banks would not accept any alternative guarantees by third parties, or if no third party is available or willing in the market to provide such guarantees, it may become more difficult for property purchasers to obtain mortgages from banks and other financial institutions during sales and pre-sales of its properties. Such difficulties in financing could result in a substantially lower rate of sale and pre-sale of our properties, which would adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. We are not aware of any impending changes in laws, regulations, policies or practices which will prohibit such practice in China. However, there can be no assurance that such changes in laws, regulations, policies or practices will not occur in China in the future. Risks Relating to China PRC economic, political and social conditions as well as government policies can affect our business. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many aspects, including: • political structure; • degree of government involvement; 17 Table of Contents • degree of development; • level and control of capital reinvestment; • control of foreign exchange; and • allocation of resources. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a centrally planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. For more than two decades, the PRC government has implemented economic reform measures emphasizing utilization of market forces in the development of the PRC economy. Although we believe these reforms will have a positive effect on China’s overall and long-term development, we cannot predict whether changes in the PRC economic, political and social conditions, laws, regulations and policies will have any adverse effect on our current or future business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in foreign exchange regulations may adversely affect our ability to transfer funds and subsequently impact the results of our operations. We currently receive all of our revenues from operations in RMB. The PRC government regulates the conversion between RMB and foreign currencies. Over the years, the PRC government has significantly reduced its control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts, including trade and service related foreign exchange transactions, payment of dividends and service of foreign debt. However, foreign exchange transactions by our PRC subsidiaries under capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of, or registration with, PRC governmental authorities. There can be no assurance that these PRC laws and regulations on foreign investment will not cast uncertainties on our financing and operating plans in China. Under current foreign exchange regulations in China, subject to the relevant registration at the SAFE, we will be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, there can be no assurance that the current PRC foreign exchange policies regarding debt service and payment of dividends in foreign currencies will continue in the future. Changes in PRC foreign exchange policies might have a negative impact on our ability to service our foreign currency-denominated indebtedness and to distribute dividends to our shareholders in foreign currencies. In addition, on August 29, 2008, the SAFE issued a notice with respect to the administration of RMB converted from foreign exchange capital contributions of a foreign invested enterprise. As a result, unless otherwise permitted by PRC laws or regulations, such converted amount can only be applied to activities within the approved business scope of the relevant foreign invested enterprise and cannot be used for domestic equity investment or acquisition. As restricted by the notice, we may not be able to use RMB converted from foreign exchange capital contributions to fund our PRC subsidiaries. Fluctuations in the value of RMB will affect the amount of our non-RMB debt service in RMB terms and affect the value of, and dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. The value of RMB depends, to a large extent, on China’s domestic and international economic, financial and political developments and government policies, as well as the currency’s supply and demand in the local and international markets. For over 10 years from 1994, the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar, was based on exchange rates set and published daily by the PBOC in light of the previous day’s inter-bank foreign exchange market rates in China and the then current exchange rates on the global financial markets. The official exchange rate for the conversion of RMB into the U.S. dollar was largely stable until July 2005. On July 21, 2005, the PBOC revalued RMB by reference to a basket of foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar. As a result, the value of RMB appreciated by 2% on that day. Since then, the PRC central bank has allowed the official RMB exchange rate to float against a basket of foreign currencies. There can be no assurance that such exchange rate will not fluctuate widely against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency in the future. Fluctuation of the value of RMB will affect the amount of our non-RMB debt service in RMB terms since we have to convert RMB into non-RMB currencies to service our foreign debt, including our floating rate and convertible notes. Since our income and profits are denominated in RMB, any appreciation of RMB will also increase the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. Conversely, any depreciation of RMB will decrease the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. Interpretation of PRC laws and regulations involves uncertainty. Our core business is conducted within China and is governed by PRC laws and regulations. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions can only be used as a reference. Since 1979, the PRC government has promulgated laws and regulations in relation to economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade, with a view to developing a comprehensive system of commercial law, including laws relating to property ownership and development. However, due to the fact that these laws and regulations have not been fully developed, and because of the limited volume of published cases and the non-binding nature of prior court decisions, interpretation of PRC laws and regulations involves a degree of uncertainty. Some of these laws may be changed without being immediately published or may be amended with retroactive effect. Depending on the government agency or how an application or case is presented to such agency, we may receive less favorable interpretations of laws and regulations than our competitors, particularly if a competitor has long been established in the locality of, and has developed a relationship with, such agency. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. All these uncertainties may cause difficulties in the enforcement of our land use rights, entitlements under its permits, and other statutory and contractual rights and interests. 18 Table of Contents The PRC national and regional economies may be adversely affected by a recurrence of epidemic. Certain areas of China, including the Tier II cities where we operate, are susceptible to epidemics such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, avian or swine influenza. A recurrence of SARS, avian or swine influenza or any epidemic in these cities or other areas of China could result in material disruptions to our property developments, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise adversely affect us. The SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring the control of any company outside of China for the purpose of financing that offshore company to acquire assets or equity interest in a PRC company. Once the special purpose vehicle has a major capital change event (including overseas equity or convertible bonds financing), the residents must conduct a registration relating to the change within 30 days of occurrence of the event. On May 29, 2007, the SAFE issued an additional notice, clarifying some outstanding issues and providing standard operating procedures for implementing the prior notice. According to the new notice, the SAFE sets up seven schedules that track registration requirements for offshore fundraising and roundtrip investments. Further, pursuant to the above notices, if our PRC resident shareholders fail to adhere to any of the registration requirements, or if they make any false representations to obtain the registration for roundtrip investments in onshore entities or special purpose vehicles, they may face fines and other legal sanctions. In addition, such actions may also impede our ability to contribute additional capital or extend loans to our PRC subsidiaries, impede our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. However, as a result of uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of these notices with other approval or registration requirements, it remains unclear how these notices, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We attempt to comply, and attempt to ensure that our shareholders who are subject to these rules comply, with the relevant requirements. Since Mr. Yong Zhang, Chairman of our board of directors and Chief Executive Officer, and his spouse, Ms. Yuyan Yang, also a board member and Vice President, are PRC residents and our shareholders, each is subject to the SAFE registration requirements. Mr. Zhang and Ms. Yang have updated their registrations with the local SAFE branch. However, we cannot provide any assurances that Mr. Zhang, Ms. Yang, or any of our other shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by these notices or other related rules for any future updates. The failure or inability of these PRC resident beneficial owners to comply with applicable SAFE registration requirements may subject us to the sanctions described above, including sanctions which may impede our ability to contribute the additional capital from our proceeds of any future offerings to our PRC subsidiaries, and our PRC subsidiaries ability to pay dividends or distribute profits to us. We may face PRC regulatory risks relating to our equity incentive plan and long term incentive plan. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE promulgated the Application Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rules. Under the Stock Option Rules, PRC residents who are granted stock options and other types of stock-based awards by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through an agent of the overseas publicly-listed company, generally its PRC subsidiary or a financial institution, to obtain approval from the local SAFE branch. As a company listed on a stock exchange in the United States, we and our PRC directors, management, employees, consultants and employees of our equity investee who have been granted share options and other awards under our equity incentive plan and our long term incentive plan are subject to the Stock Option Rules. We filed our 2007 equity incentive plan and 2007 long term incentive plan with the local SAFE branch in December 2007. In addition, we are required to apply for the quota for purchasing foreign exchange with the local SAFE branch in respect of any cash exercise of options pursuant to the 2007 equity incentive plan and 2007 long term incentive plan and to continue to file the updated equity incentive plan and long term incentive plan with the local SAFE branch on a regular basis. If we, or any of these persons, fail to comply with the relevant rules or requirements, we may be subject to penalties, and may become subject to more stringent review and approval processes with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as our PRC subsidiaries’ dividend payment to us or borrowing foreign currency loans, all of which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts, changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other real estate developers, announcements by us or our competitors of material acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, fluctuations of exchange rates between RMB and the U.S. dollar, release of transfer restrictions on our outstanding shares or ADSs, and economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the performance, and fluctuation in market prices, of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volumes of our ADSs. Furthermore, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. You may experience dilution in the net tangible book value of ADSs. Our IPO in December 2007 resulted in a dilution to purchasers at the offering of US$9.35 per ADS. You may experience further dilution with respect to your ADSs upon our issuance of common shares in connection with the exercise of outstanding options, warrants and further options we may grant from time to time, as well as with any conversion of our outstanding convertible notes. We may raise additional capital through the sale of additional equity or debt securities, which could result in additional dilution to our shareholders, or impose upon us additional financial obligations. We may require additional cash resources to finance our continued growth or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. The amount and timing of such additional financing needs will vary principally depending on the timing of our property developments, investments and/or acquisitions, and the amount of cash flow from our operations. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities. The sale of additional equity securities, including additional warrants, could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends or redeem stock. We cannot guarantee that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial future sales or the perception of sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of December 31, 2009, we had 151,688,262 common shares outstanding, including 91,888,260 common shares represented by 45,944,130 ADSs. All ADSs are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The remaining common shares outstanding are available for sale, subject any volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. To the extent that common shares are sold into the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. In addition, certain holders of our common shares have the right to cause us to register the resale of a certain number of shares under the Securities Act. We have registered most of those shares for resale on a Form F-3 registration statement. We have registered under the Securities Act the sale of all common shares that are issuable upon exercise of stock options or other awards under our equity incentive plans. As a result, shares are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, subject to any applicable lock-up agreements. Sales of those registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. The interests of our major shareholders may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. As of December 31, 2009, Mr. Yong Zhang, Chairman of our board of directors and Chief Executive Officer, together with his spouse, Ms. Yuyan Yang, also a board member and Vice President, beneficially owned 39.7% of our outstanding share capital. Accordingly, they have substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. In addition, our institutional shareholders, Blue Ridge China and Equity International, also have substantial ownership of our shares. As of December 31, 2009, Blue Ridge China owned 18.4% of our outstanding share capital and Equity International owned 12.2% of our outstanding share capital. This concentration of ownership by our major shareholders may result in actions being taken even if opposed by our other shareholders. In addition, it may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. 20 Table of Contents Compliance with rules and regulations applicable to companies publicly listed in the United States is costly and complex and any failure by us to comply with these requirements on an ongoing basis could negatively affect investor confidence in us and cause the market price of our ADSs to decrease. In addition to Section 404, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also mandates, among other things, that companies adopt corporate governance measures, imposes comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, sets strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit committee members, and imposes civil and criminal penalties for companies, their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. For example, in response to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the NYSE has adopted additional comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. These laws, rules and regulations have increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance and reporting and disclosure practices. Our current and future compliance efforts will continue to require significant management attention. In addition, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers to fill critical positions within our company. Any failure by us to comply with these requirements on an ongoing basis could negatively affect investor confidence in us, cause the market price of our ADSs to decrease or even result in the delisting of our ADSs from the NYSE. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our common shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the common shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the common shares represented by the ADSs. Holders of ADSs may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. As soon as practicable after the depositary receives from us a notice of a shareholders’ meeting, the depositary will distribute to registered holders of ADRs a notice stating (a) such information as is contained in such notice and any solicitation materials, (b) that each registered holder on the record date set for such purpose will, subject to any applicable provisions of Cayman Island law, be entitled to instruct the depositary as to the exercise of the voting rights and (c) the manner in which such instructions may be given, including instructions to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us. The depositary will not itself exercise any voting discretion in respect of any common shares nor will it provide any instructions with respect to the common shares represented by any ADSs for which voting instructions were not timely and properly received. There can be no guarantee that registered holders of ADRs will receive the notice described above with sufficient time to enable them to return any voting instructions to the depositary in a timely manner. To the extent you hold your ADSs through a bank, broker or other nominee, you will be relying upon such institutions with respect to voting matters. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or are exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China. All of our officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the respective laws of the Cayman Islands and China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. 21 Table of Contents We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2009 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provide significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. The Companies Law introduced a new mechanism for mergers and acquisitions where the merged company or consolidated company will continue to be a Cayman Islands entity. Under this mechanism, dissenting shareholders have the right to be paid the fair value of their shares (which, if not agreed between the parties, will be determined by the Cayman Islands courts) if they follow the required procedures, subject to certain exceptions. However, these rights have never been tested before the Cayman Islands court and as a result, they may not be comparable to the appraisal rights that would ordinarily be available to dissenting shareholders of a U.S. company. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us or our management named in the annual report. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and all of our assets are located in China. In addition, most of our directors and senior executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to affect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our directors and senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Our articles of association may contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our common shares and ADSs. Our amended and restated articles of association contain provisions limiting the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges and relative participating, optional or special rights and their qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our common shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. As a result, the price of our ADSs may fall. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or common shares. Based on the composition of our assets and income and the current expectations, we believe that we were not a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ending December 31, 2009 and we do not expect to become a PFIC with respect to our current taxable year or the foreseeable future. However, the determination of our PFIC status is dependent upon the composition of our income and assets and, in addition, we must make a separate determination at the close of each taxable year as to whether we are a PFIC. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2010, or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The market value of our assets will be determined based on the market price of our ADSs and common shares, which are likely to fluctuate. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. person held an ADS or a common share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. person. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 22 Table of Contents We may be classified as a controlled foreign corporation, which will result in application of special rules to certain of our U.S. holders. Given our current ownership, there is a possibility that we may be a controlled foreign corporation, or CFC, which is a factual determination dependent on the circumstances existing on the relevant date. If we were treated as a CFC for any taxable year during which a U.S. 10% shareholder held ADSs or common shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. 10% shareholder. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Controlled Foreign Corporation.” 