Item 1A. Risk Factors.You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report. The risk factors generally have been separated into three groups: (1) risks relating to our business; (2) risks relating to our indebtedness; and (3) risks relating to an investment in our common stock. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company and our common stock. However, the risks and uncertainties are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business The residential real estate market is cyclical and we are negatively impacted by downturns in this market and general economic conditions.The residential real estate market tends to be cyclical and typically is affected by changes in general economic conditions which are beyond our control. From mid-2005 through 2011, the residential real estate market sustained a deep and prolonged downturn. Beginning in 2012, the U.S. residential real estate industry began its current recovery. According to NAR, in the first two years of the current housing recovery—2012 and 2013—homesale transaction volume (average homesale price multiplied by homesale transactions) improved 15% and 19%, respectively. According to NAR, homesale transaction volume growth slowed to 1% in 2014 compared to 2013. We cannot predict the duration or continued strength of the housing recovery. If the residential real estate market or the economy as a whole does not continue to improve or worsens, our business, financial condition and liquidity may be materially adversely affected, including our ability to access capital and grow our business.Any of the following could halt or limit a recovery in the housing market and have a material adverse effect on our business by causing a lack of sustained growth or a decline in the number of homesales and/or prices which, in turn, could adversely affect our revenues and profitability:•high levels of unemployment and the continued slow recovery of wages;•a period of slow economic growth or recessionary conditions;•weak credit markets;•a low level of consumer confidence in the economy and/or the residential real estate market;•instability of financial institutions;•economic instability stemming from ongoing high levels of U.S. government debt;•legislative or regulatory changes that would adversely impact the residential real estate market and federal and/or state income tax changes that impact our industry, such as the loss or caps on the deductions including potential limits on, or elimination of, the deductibility of certain mortgage interest expense; and other tax reform affecting real estate and/or real estate transactions; •increasing mortgage rates and down payment requirements and/or constraints on the availability of mortgage financing;•insufficient or excessive regional home inventory levels;18Table of Contents•renewed high levels of foreclosure activity including but not limited to the release of homes already held for sale by financial institutions;•adverse changes in local or regional economic conditions;•the inability or unwillingness of homeowners to enter into homesale transactions due to first-time homebuyer concerns about investing in a home and move-up buyers having limited or negative equity in their existing homes;•a decrease in the affordability of homes;•decreasing home ownership rates, declining demand for real estate and changing social attitudes toward home ownership; and/or•natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other events that disrupt local or regional real estate markets. A decline or lack of sustained growth in existing homesales would also reduce the demand for our title and settlement services and reduce the referral fees earned by our relocation services business. A continuing housing recovery should result in an increase in our revenues but could put downward pressure on brokerage commissions, which could negatively impact the rate of our revenue growth. In addition, in a growing housing market, sales associates, under certain circumstances, may achieve a higher proportion of the commissions earned on a homesale transaction, which could adversely affect the operating margins of our Company owned residential brokerages. Similarly, our revenue growth could be negatively affected if the net effective royalty rate on royalties our real estate franchise segment receives from our franchisees falls. In general, most of our third-party franchisees are entitled to volume incentives. These incentives decrease during times of declining homesale transaction volumes and increase during market recoveries when there is a corresponding increase in homesale transaction volume.Adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations.Our business and operations and those of our franchisees are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the U.S. and worldwide. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, levels of unemployment, consumer confidence and the general condition of the U.S. and the world economy.The residential real estate market also depends upon the strength of financial institutions, which are sensitive to changes in the general macroeconomic environment. Lack of available credit or lack of confidence in the financial sector could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A host of factors beyond our control could cause fluctuations in these conditions, including the political environment and acts or threats of war or terrorism which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations.Tightened mortgage underwriting standards could continue to reduce homebuyers' ability to access the credit markets on reasonable terms.During the past several years, many lenders have significantly tightened their underwriting standards, and many alternative mortgage products have become less available in the marketplace. Underwriting standards could be further tightened, as a result of changes in regulations, including regulations enacted to increase guarantee fees of federally insured mortgages and/or to reduce the maximum loan limits on mortgage guarantees by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. More stringent mortgage underwriting standards could adversely affect the ability and willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases or to sell their existing homes, which would adversely affect our operating results.Potential reform of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae or a reduction in U.S. government support for the housing market could have a material impact on our operations.Numerous pieces of legislation seeking various types of changes for GSEs have been introduced in Congress to reform the U.S. housing finance market, including, among other things, changes designed to reduce government support for housing finance and the winding down of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae over a period of years. Legislation, if enacted, or additional regulation which curtails Freddie Mac and/or Fannie Mae's activities and/or results in the wind down of these entities could increase mortgage costs and could result in more stringent underwriting guidelines imposed by lenders or cause other disruptions in the mortgage industry, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on the housing market in general and our operations in particular. 19Table of ContentsRules and regulations implemented under Dodd-Frank may, among other things, adversely affect the housing industry and our business.On July 21, 2010, Dodd-Frank was signed into law for the express purpose of regulating the financial services industry. Dodd-Frank and regulations promulgated pursuant to such legislation could:•materially and adversely affect the mortgage and housing industries;•result in heightened federal regulation and oversight of the mortgage and housing industries;•increase mortgage costs and, as a result, limit mortgage availability; •curtail affiliated business transactions; and/or•result in increased costs and potential litigation for housing market participants.As a participant in the housing industry, and a company that has affiliated businesses, existing as well as new regulations implemented under Dodd-Frank could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies may have a material impact on our operations.Our business is significantly affected by the monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. The Federal Reserve Board's policies affect the real estate market through their effect on interest rates as well as the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities.Interest rates are at near historic lows and we could be negatively impacted by any rising interest rate environment. As mortgage rates rise, the number of homesale transactions may decrease as potential home sellers choose to stay with their lower mortgage rate rather than sell their home and pay a higher mortgage rate with the purchase of another home, and potential home buyers choose to rent rather than pay higher mortgage rates. An increase in mortgage rates would also be expected to reduce the number of homesale refinancing transactions, which could materially adversely impact our earnings from the PHH Home Loans joint venture as well as impact the revenue stream of our title and settlement services segment. Changes in the Federal Reserve Board's policies, the interest rate environment and mortgage market are beyond our control, are difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our company owned brokerage operations are subject to geographic and high-end real estate market risks, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.Our subsidiary, NRT, owns real estate brokerage offices located in and around large metropolitan areas in the U.S. Local and regional economic conditions in these locations could differ materially from prevailing conditions in other parts of the country. NRT realizes 62% of its revenues in California, Florida and the New York metropolitan area. For the year ended December 31, 2014, NRT realized approximately 28% of its revenues from California, 24% from the New York metropolitan area and 10% from Florida. A downturn in residential real estate demand or economic conditions that is concentrated in these regions could result in a decline in NRT's total gross commission income and profitability disproportionate to the downturn experienced throughout the U.S. and could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, given the significant geographic overlap of our title and settlement services business with our company owned brokerage offices, such regional declines affecting our company owned brokerage operations could have a disproportionate adverse effect on our title and settlement services business as well. A downturn in residential real estate demand or economic conditions in these states could result in a decline in our overall revenues and have a material adverse effect on us.NRT has a significant concentration of transactions at the higher end of the U.S. real estate market. A shift in NRT's mix of property transactions from the high range to lower and middle range homes would adversely affect the average price of NRT's closed homesales. Such a shift, absent an increase in transactions, would have an adverse effect on our operating results.Our financial results are affected by the operating results of our franchisees.Our real estate franchise services segment receives revenue in the form of royalties, which are based on a percentage of gross commission income earned by our franchisees. Accordingly, the financial results of our real estate franchise services segment are dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. If industry trends or economic conditions are not sustained or do not continue to improve, our franchisees' financial results may worsen and our royalty revenues may decline. In addition, we may have to increase our bad debt and note reserves. We may also have to terminate franchisees due to non-reporting and non-payment. Gross closed commission income of our new franchisees may never 20Table of Contentsmaterialize and accordingly we may not receive any material royalty revenues from new franchisees. Further, if franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements, or if we decide to restructure franchise agreements in order to induce franchisees to renew these agreements, then our royalty revenues may decrease, and profitability from new franchisees may be lower than in the past due to reduced net royalty rates, non-standard incentives and higher expenses from licensing fees.Our franchisees and their independent sales associates could take actions that could harm our business.Our franchisees are independent business operators and their sales associates are independent contractors, and, as such, neither are our employees, and we do not exercise control over their day-to-day operations. Our franchisees may not successfully operate a real estate brokerage business in a manner consistent with industry standards, or may not affiliate with effective independent sales associates or employees. If our franchisees or their independent sales associates were to provide diminished quality of service to customers, our image and reputation may suffer materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Improper actions involving our franchisees, including regarding their relationships with independent sales associates and employees, may also lead to direct claims against us based on theories of vicarious liability, negligence and joint employer liability.Additionally, franchisees and their independent sales associates may engage or be accused of engaging in unlawful or tortious acts such as, for example, violating the anti-discrimination requirements of the Fair Housing Act. Such acts or the accusation of such acts could harm our brands' image, reputation and goodwill.Franchisees, as independent business operators, may from time to time disagree with us and our strategies regarding the business or our interpretation of our respective rights and obligations under the franchise agreement. This may lead to disputes with our franchisees and we expect such disputes to occur from time to time in the future as we continue to offer franchises. To the extent we have such disputes, the attention of our management and our franchisees will be diverted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.We may not be able to successfully develop, license and scale our Zap technology to our franchisees, which could adversely affect our ability to retain existing franchisees and recruit new franchisees. In 2014, we acquired ZipRealty, an innovative residential real estate brokerage and developer of proprietary technology platforms for real estate brokerages, independent sales associates and customers. During 2015, we expect to introduce ZipRealty's comprehensive, turnkey integrated Zap technology platform, that includes a CRM system, to certain of our franchisees, ahead of a broader rollout of these tools. We may incur unforeseen expenses in the development of a scalable Zap platform and may encounter delays in the roll out of this product to our franchisees. To provide this platform to franchisees, we will need to obtain MLS data throughout the U.S. in the markets in which our franchisees operate. We expect to obtain MLS data as a vendor of the franchisees that license the Zap platform, but we may encounter delays in obtaining that data from local MLSs. There also can be no assurance that even if the Zap platform becomes scalable, that our franchisees will have a demand for the Zap platform or related products. Further, franchisees that seek a CRM tool may license products from third parties, and franchisees that have existing CRM systems may not switch to the Zap platform. Our inability to successfully license the Zap platform to a significant portion of our franchisee base could adversely affect our ability to retain existing franchisees or recruit new franchisees.Clients of our relocation business may terminate their contracts at any time, and clients of our lender channel business at TRG may terminate their relationships with us at any time.Substantially all of our contracts with our relocation clients are terminable at any time at the option of the client and are non-exclusive. If a client terminates its contract, we will only be compensated for services performed up to the time of termination and reimbursed for expenses incurred up to the time of termination. In addition, TRG's lender channel business is highly dependent on our relationships with institutional clients who have not historically entered into contracts with us. If a significant number of our relocation clients terminate their contracts with us or if our relationships with the institutional clients in TRG's lender channel business deteriorate, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our business could also be materially adversely affected if there is a material reduction in the volume of business we receive from these customers.We are reliant on third-party suppliers to perform services on our behalf.Aspects of our business, such as our relocation segment, are performed on our behalf by third-party suppliers. In many instances these suppliers are in direct contact with our customers in order to deliver services on our behalf. If our third-party suppliers were to provide diminished services to our customers, our image and reputation could be materially adversely 21Table of Contentsaffected. In addition, we could also be subject to litigation and regulatory claims arising out of the performance of our third-party suppliers based on theories of vicarious liability, negligence or failure to comply with laws and regulations including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.Actions by the independent sales associated engaged by our Company owned brokerages could materially and adversely affect our reputation and subject us to liability. Our Company owned brokerage operations rely on the performance of independent sales associates. If the independent sales associates were to provide diminished services to our customers, our image and reputation could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we could also be subject to litigation and regulatory claims arising out of their performance, which if adversely determined, could materially and adversely affect us.Loss or attrition among our senior executives or other key employees could adversely affect our financial performance.Our success is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key employees, particularly those who have many years of experience in the residential real estate market. Our ability to retain our executive officers and key employees is generally subject to numerous factors, including the compensation and benefits we pay. If we were to lose several of our executive officers or key employees in a relatively short period of time and were unable to promptly fill their positions with comparably qualified individuals, our business may be adversely affected.We are subject to certain risks related to litigation filed by or against us, and adverse results may harm our business and financial condition.We cannot predict with certainty the cost of defense, the cost of prosecution, insurance coverage or the ultimate outcome of litigation and other proceedings filed by or against us, including remedies or damage awards, and adverse results in such litigation and other proceedings, including treble damages and penalties. Adverse outcomes may harm our business and financial condition. Such litigation and other proceedings may include, but are not limited to, actions relating to intellectual property, commercial arrangements, franchising arrangements, negligence and fiduciary duty claims arising from franchising arrangements or company owned brokerage operations, employment law claims, including claims challenging the classification of sales associates as independent contractors (see Bararsani litigation described under "Item 3 -Legal Proceedings"), actions against our title company for defalcations on closing payments or alleging it knew or should have known others were committing mortgage fraud, standard brokerage disputes like the failure to disclose hidden defects in the property such as mold, vicarious liability based upon conduct of individuals or entities outside of our control, including franchisees and independent sales associates, antitrust and anti-competition claims, general fraud claims and compliance with wage and hour regulations, and claims alleging violations of RESPA or state consumer fraud statutes. In addition, class action lawsuits can often be particularly vexatious litigation given the breadth of claims, the large potential damages claimed and the significant costs of defense. The risks of litigation become magnified, and the costs of settlement increase, in class actions in which the courts grant partial or full certification of a large class. In the case of intellectual property litigation and proceedings, adverse outcomes could include the cancellation, invalidation or other loss of material intellectual property rights used in our business and injunctions prohibiting our use of business processes or technology that is subject to third-party patents or other third-party intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) and pay royalties. Adverse decisions in litigation against companies unrelated to us could impact our business practices and those of our franchisees in a manner that adversely impacts our financial condition and results of operations.Litigation and claims against other participants in the residential real estate industry may impact the Company when the rulings in those cases cover practices common to the broader industry. Examples may include claims associated with RESPA compliance, broker fiduciary duties, and sales agent classification. Similarly, the Company may be impacted by litigation and other claims against companies in other industries. Rulings on matters such as the enforcement of arbitration agreements and worker classification may adversely affect the Company and other residential real estate industry participants as a result of the classification of sales agents as independent contractors, irrespective of the fact that the parties subject to the rulings are in a different industry. There is active worker classification litigation in numerous jurisdictions, including Massachusetts, California, New Jersey and New York, against a variety of industries where the plaintiffs seek to reclassify independent contractors as employees or to challenge the use of federal and state minimum wage and overtime exemptions. To the extent the defendants are unsuccessful in these types of litigation matters, and we or our franchisees cannot distinguish our or their practices (or our industry’s practices), we and our franchisees could face significant liability and we and our franchisees could be required to modify certain business relationships, either of which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 22Table of ContentsOur relationship with our employees is subject to an array of different employment, tax reporting and regulatory obligations and any significant failure to comply with these obligations could materially and adversely affect our business.These obligations relate to federal and state tax codes, federal and state wage and hour laws, state unemployment, workers’ compensation and disability tax laws, and anti-discrimination and workplace safety laws. Each state has unique wage and hour laws, which have been the subject of increasing litigation nationwide. In addition, each state has its own rules and tests for classification of independent contractors as well as to determine whether employees meet exemptions from minimum wages and overtime laws. These tests consider many factors that also vary from state to state. The tests have evolved based on state case law decisions, regulations and legislative changes, and frequently involve factual analysis. In addition, states have laws and regulations concerning the licensing of real estate agents. While these laws and regulations may have separate provisions related to the classification of sales agents as independent contractors, there can be no assurance that courts will follow the tests in these real estate specific laws and regulations when they differ from those in labor statutes and regulations. When companies are found to have misclassified workers as independent contractors instead of employees, courts can impose significant penalties and damages.The legal relationship between residential real estate brokers and licensed sales agents throughout the industry historically has been that of independent contractor. The Company is now faced with a case in southern California alleging improper classification of real estate sales agents. Although we believe our classification practices are proper and consistent with the legal framework for such classification, to the extent challenges and claims develop further, our Company owned brokerage operations could face substantial litigation or disputes in other states, including the risk of court or regulatory determinations that certain groups of real estate agents should be reclassified as employees and entitled to unpaid minimum wage, overtime, benefits, expense reimbursement and other employment obligations. Significant reclassification determinations in the absence of available exemptions from minimum wage or overtime laws, including damages and penalties for prior periods, could be disruptive to our business, constrain our operations in certain jurisdictions and have a material adverse effect on the operational and financial performance of the Company. In addition, real estate agent reclassification could have a material adverse effect on the operational and financial performance of our franchisees and our competitors.We are reliant upon information technology to operate our business and maintain our competitiveness.Our business, including our ability to attract employees and independent sales agents, increasingly depends upon the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems, including technology and systems (mobile and otherwise) utilized for communications, marketing, productivity tools, lead generation, records of transactions, business records (employment, accounting, tax, etc.), procurement, call center operations and administrative systems. The operation of these technologies and systems is dependent upon third-party technologies, systems and services, for which there are no assurances of continued or uninterrupted availability and support by the applicable third-party vendors on commercially reasonable terms. We also cannot assure that we will be able to continue to effectively operate and maintain our information technologies and systems. In addition, our information technologies and systems are expected to require refinements and enhancements on an ongoing basis, and we expect that advanced new technologies and systems will continue to be introduced. We may not be able to obtain such new technologies and systems, or to replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as our competitors or in a cost-effective manner. Also, we may not achieve the benefits anticipated or required from any new technology or system, and we may not be able to devote financial resources to new technologies and systems in the future.Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations.Global cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the Company and/or its third party service providers. In the ordinary course of our business, we and our third-party service providers collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and intellectual property, and that of our clients and personally identifiable information of our customers. Additionally, we increasingly rely on third-party data storage providers, including cloud storage solution providers. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information are critical to our operations and with respect to information collected and stored by our third-party service providers, we are reliant upon their security procedures. While we and our third-party service providers have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date have been material to the Company. Although we employ comprehensive measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these 23Table of Contentsthreats (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments and maintenance of backup and protective systems), and conduct diligence on the security measures employed by key third-party service providers, cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties, including personally identifiable information) and the disruption of business operations. Our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of the services we provide to our customers, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations.The weakening or unavailability of our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our business.Our trademarks, trade names, domain names and other intellectual property rights are fundamental to our brands and our franchising business. The steps we take to obtain, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate and, in particular, we may not own all necessary registrations for our intellectual property. Applications we have filed to register our intellectual property may not be approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities. Our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. We may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property rights without our authorization or independently developing technology that is similar to ours. Also, third parties may own rights in similar trademarks. Any unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties could reduce our competitive advantages or otherwise harm our business and brands. If we had to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be costly, and we may not prevail. Our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks, may fail to provide us with significant competitive advantages in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions that do not have or do not enforce strong intellectual property rights.We cannot be certain that our intellectual property does not and will not infringe issued intellectual property rights of others. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation. Depending on the success of these proceedings, we may be required to enter into licensing or consent agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all), or to pay damages or cease using certain service marks or trademarks.We franchise our brands to franchisees. While we try to ensure that the quality of our brands is maintained by all of our franchisees, we cannot assure that these franchisees will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property or our reputation.Our license agreement with Sotheby's for the use of the Sotheby's International Realty® brand is terminable by Sotheby's prior to the end of the license term if certain conditions occur, including but not limited to the following: (1) we attempt to assign any of our rights under the license agreement in any manner not permitted under the license agreement, (2) we become bankrupt or insolvent, (3) a court issues a non-appealable, final judgment that we have committed certain breaches of the license agreement and we fail to cure such breaches within 60 days of the issuance of such judgment, or (4) we discontinue the use of all of the trademarks licensed under the license agreement for a period of twelve consecutive months.Our license agreement with Meredith Corporation ("Meredith") for the use of the Better Homes and Gardens® Real Estate brand is terminable by Meredith prior to the end of the license term if certain conditions occur, including but not limited to the following: (1) we attempt to assign any of our rights under the license agreement in any manner not permitted under the license agreement, (2) we become bankrupt or insolvent, or (3) a trial court issues a final judgment that we are in material breach of the license agreement or any representation or warranty we made was false or materially misleading when made.We do not own two of our brands and must manage cooperative relationships with both owners.The Sotheby's International Realty® and Better Homes and Gardens® Real Estate brands are owned by the companies that founded these brands. We are the exclusive party licensed to run brokerage services in residential real estate under those brands, whether through our franchisees or our company owned operations. Our future operations and performance with respect to these brands requires the continued cooperation from the owners of those brands and successful protection of those brands. In particular, Sotheby's has the right to approve our international Sotheby's International Realty® franchisees and the material terms of our international franchise agreements governing our relationships with our Sotheby's International Realty® franchisees located outside the U.S., which approval cannot be unreasonably withheld or delayed. If Sotheby's 24Table of Contentsunreasonably withholds or delays its approval for new international franchisees, our relationship with Sotheby's could be disrupted. Any significant disruption of the relationships with the owners of these brands could impede our franchising of those brands and have a material adverse effect on our operations and performance. In addition, any significant difficulties in the business of the brand owners could negatively reflect on the brand and the brand value.We do not control the joint venture PHH Home Loans and PHH as the managing partner of that venture may make decisions that are contrary to our best interests.Under our Operating Agreement with PHH relating to PHH Home Loans, we own a 49.9% equity interest but do not have control of the operations of the joint venture. Rather, our joint venture partner, PHH, is the managing partner of the venture and may make decisions with respect to the operation of the venture, which may harm the joint venture or be contrary to our best interests and may adversely affect our results of operations or equity interest in the joint venture. The earnings and dividends we receive from our joint venture PHH Home Loans may continue to be materially adversely affected by developments in the mortgage industry as well as operational or liquidity risks to the joint venture or PHH.Our joint venture may continue to be materially adversely impacted by changes affecting the mortgage industry, including but not limited to regulatory changes, increases in mortgage interest rates and decreases in operating margins. Earnings and dividends from PHH Home Loans and the related marketing fees that our franchise segment earns from PHH also could be materially adversely affected by the impact and outcome of litigation and investigations affecting the joint venture or PHH as well as operational or liquidity risks to the joint venture or PHH.In the event of a termination of our joint venture PHH Home Loans, we may not be able to find an alternative partner, which could negatively impact our business.Either party has the right to terminate the joint venture upon the occurrence of certain events, such as a material breach, or the insolvency of the other party. In addition, we may terminate the joint venture upon a change of control of PHH involving certain entities that we have enumerated (and which may be updated by us once every two years) or any competitor of ours. Upon any termination of the joint venture by us as a result of any of the events described in this paragraph, we may require that PHH purchase our interest or sell its interest to a buyer designated by us. In addition, we may terminate the joint venture at our election by providing two years' prior notice to PHH at any time after January 31, 2015, and PHH may terminate the venture at its election effective January 31, 2030, by notice delivered no earlier than three years, but not later than two years, before such date. If we exercise our two-year termination right, we may require that PHH purchase our interest or sell its interest to a buyer designated by us. The purchase price of the joint venture interest being sold by Realogy or PHH, as the case may be, pursuant to the termination right described in this paragraph will be the fair value of such interest determined through a valuation process and taking into account all relevant facts and circumstances, including, in the case of Realogy putting its shares to PHH, the consequences of such put (including, but not limited to, the automatic termination of all of the joint venture agreements).If the joint venture is terminated, we may not be able to replace PHH with a new joint venture partner on terms comparable to us as those contained in the existing agreements governing the joint venture and, even if successful in finding a replacement partner, may incur expenses or loss of mortgage related earnings during any such transition. In addition, we might be unsuccessful in engaging in the loan origination business without a partner. In the event of a termination of the joint venture, our earnings derived from the business that had been conducted by the joint venture and the related marketing fees that we earned from PHH could be materially adversely affected.We may experience significant claims relating to our operations, and losses resulting from fraud, defalcation or misconduct.We issue title insurance policies which provide coverage for real property to mortgage lenders and buyers of real property. When acting as a title agent issuing a policy on behalf of an underwriter, our insurance risk is typically limited to the first five thousand dollars for claims on any one policy, though our insurance risk is not limited if we are negligent. Our title underwriter typically underwrites title insurance policies of up to $1.5 million. For policies in excess of $1.5 million, we typically obtain a reinsurance policy from a national underwriter to reinsure the excess amount. To date, our title underwriter has experienced claims losses that are significantly below the industry average; however, our claims experience could increase in the future, which could negatively impact the profitability of that business. We may also be subject to legal claims or additional claims losses arising from the handling of escrow transactions and closings by our owned title agencies or our underwriter's independent title agents. We carry errors and omissions insurance for errors made by our 25Table of Contentscompany owned brokerage business during the real estate settlement process as well as errors by us related to real estate services. Our franchise agreements also require our franchisees to name us as an additional insured on their errors and omissions and general liability insurance policies. The occurrence of a significant claim in excess of our insurance coverage (including any coverage under franchisee insurance policies) in any given period could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations during the period. In addition, insurance carriers may dispute coverage for various reasons and there can be no assurance that all claims will be covered by insurance.Fraud, defalcation and misconduct by employees are also risks inherent in our business, particularly given our high transactional volumes in our company owned brokerage, title and settlement services and our relocation businesses. We may also from time to time be subject to liability claims based upon the fraud or misconduct of our franchisees. To the extent that any loss or theft of funds substantially exceeds our insurance coverage, our business could be materially adversely affected.In addition, we rely on the collection and use of personally identifiable information from customers to conduct our business. We disclose our information collection and dissemination practices in a published privacy statement on our websites, which we may modify from time to time. We may be subject to legal claims, government action and damage to our reputation if we act or are perceived to be acting inconsistently with the terms of our privacy statement, customer expectations or the law. The occurrence of a significant claim in excess of our insurance coverage in any given period could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations during the period. In the event we or the vendors with which we contract to provide services on behalf of our customers were to suffer a breach of personally identifiable information, our customers, such as our Cartus corporate or affinity clients, franchisees, independent sales agents and lender channel clients, could terminate their business with us. Further, we may be subject to claims to the extent individual employees or independent contractors breach or fail to adhere to Company policies and practices and such actions jeopardize any personally identifiable information. In addition, concern among potential home buyers or sellers about our privacy practices could keep them from using our services or require us to incur significant expense to alter our business practices or educate them about how we use personally identifiable information.We could be subject to significant losses if banks do not honor our escrow and trust deposits.Our company owned brokerage business and our title and settlement services business act as escrow agents for numerous customers. As an escrow agent, we receive money from customers to hold until certain conditions are satisfied. Upon the satisfaction of those conditions, we release the money to the appropriate party. We deposit this money with various banks and while these deposits are not assets of the Company (and therefore excluded from our consolidated balance sheet); we remain contingently liable for the disposition of these deposits. The banks may hold a significant amount of these deposits in excess of the federal deposit insurance limit. If any of our depository banks were to become unable to honor any portion of our deposits, customers could seek to hold us responsible for such amounts and, if the customers prevailed in their claims, we could be subject to significant losses. These escrow and trust deposits totaled $251 million at December 31, 2014.Title insurance regulations limit the ability of our insurance underwriter to pay cash dividends to us.Our title insurance underwriter is subject to regulations that limit its ability to pay dividends or make loans or advances to us, principally to protect policy holders. Generally, these regulations limit the total amount of dividends and distributions to a certain percentage of the insurance subsidiary's surplus, or 100% of statutory operating income for the previous calendar year. These restrictions could limit our ability to receive dividends from our insurance underwriter, and therefore limit our ability to make acquisitions or otherwise grow our business.We may be unable to continue to securitize certain of our relocation assets, which may adversely impact our liquidity.At December 31, 2014, $269 million of securitization obligations were outstanding through special purpose entities monetizing certain assets of our relocation services business under two lending facilities. We have provided a performance guaranty which guarantees the obligations of our Cartus subsidiary and its subsidiaries, as originator and servicer under the Apple Ridge securitization program. The securitization markets have experienced, and may again experience, significant disruptions which may have the effect of increasing our cost of funding or reducing our access to these markets in the future. In addition, the Apple Ridge securitization facility contains terms which if triggered may result in a termination or limitation of new or existing funding under the facility and/or may result in a requirement that all collections on the assets be used to pay down the amounts outstanding under such facility. The triggering events include but are not limited to: (1) those tied to the age and quality of the underlying assets; (2) a change of control; (3) a breach of our senior secured leverage 26Table of Contentsratio covenant under our senior secured credit facility if uncured; and (4) the acceleration of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility, unsecured or secured notes or other material indebtedness. The occurrence of a trigger event under the Apple Ridge securitization facility could restrict our ability to access new or existing funding under this facility or result in termination of the facility. If securitization financing is not available to us for any reason, we could be required to borrow under the revolving credit facility, which would adversely impact our liquidity, or we may be required to find additional sources of funding which may be on less favorable terms or may not be available at all.Competition in the residential real estate and relocation business is intense and may adversely affect our financial performance.We generally face intense competition in the residential real estate services business. As a real estate brokerage franchisor, our products are our brand names and the support services we provide to our franchisees and our ability to grow our franchisor business is also dependent on the operational and financial success of our franchisees. •Upon the expiration of a franchise agreement, a franchisee may choose to franchise with one of our competitors or operate as an independent broker. Competitors may offer franchisees whose franchise agreements are expiring or prospective franchisees products and services similar to us at rates that are lower than we charge. •We face the risk that currently unaffiliated brokers may not enter into franchise agreements with us because they believe they can compete effectively in the market without the need to license a brand of a franchisor and receive services offered by a franchisor. Additionally, unaffiliated brokers may decide not to enter into a franchise relationship with us as they may believe that their business will be more attractive to a prospective purchaser without the existence of an existing franchise relationship. •Regional and local franchisors provide additional competitive pressure in certain areas. To remain competitive in the sale of franchises and to retain our existing franchisees, we may have to reduce the fees we charge our franchisees to be competitive with those charged by competitors, which may accelerate if market conditions deteriorate. •Our ability to succeed as a franchisor is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of our franchisees to attract and retain independent sales associates, which is subject to numerous factors, including the sales commissions they receive and their perception of brand value. If our franchisees fail to attract and retain successful independent sales associates, our business as a franchisor may be materially adversely affected.•Listing aggregators and other web-based real estate service providers may also begin to compete for part of our franchisor service revenue through referral or other fees and could disintermediate our relationships with our franchisees and our franchisees' relationships with their independent sales agents and buyers and sellers of homes. Our company owned brokerage business, like that of our franchisees, generally faces intense competition. We compete with other national independent real estate organizations, franchisees of our brands and of other national real estate franchisors, franchisees of local and regional real estate franchisors, regional independent real estate organizations, discount brokerages, and smaller niche companies competing in local areas. Real estate brokers compete for sales and marketing business primarily on the basis of services offered, reputation, utilization of technology, personal contacts and brokerage commission. •Competition is particularly severe in the densely populated metropolitan areas in which we operate. •In addition, the real estate brokerage industry has minimal barriers to entry for new participants, including participants pursuing non-traditional methods of marketing real estate, such as Internet-based brokerage or brokers who discount their commissions. Discount brokers have had varying degrees of success and, while they were negatively impacted by the prolonged downturn in the residential housing market, they may adjust their model and increase their market presence in the future. Listing aggregators and other web-based real estate service providers may also begin to compete for our company owned brokerage business by establishing relationships with independent sales agents and/or buyers and sellers of homes. •Our average homesale commission rate per side in our Company Owned Real Estate Services segment has declined from 2.62% in 2002 to 2.47% for the year ended December 31, 2014. As with our real estate franchise business, a decrease in the average brokerage commission rate may adversely affect our revenues.•We also compete for the services of qualified licensed independent sales associates. Some of the firms competing for sales associates use a different model of compensating agents, in which agents are compensated for the revenue generated by other agents that they attract to those firms. This business model may be appealing to certain agents 27Table of Contentsand hinder our ability to attract and retain those agents. The ability of our company owned brokerage offices to retain independent sales associates is generally subject to numerous factors, including the sales commissions they receive and their perception of brand value. Competition for sales associates could reduce the commission amounts retained by our Company after giving effect to the split with independent sales associates and possibly increase the amounts that we spend on marketing. In our relocation services business, we compete primarily with global and regional outsourced relocation service providers. As the relocation business continues to become more global in nature with greater emphasis on relocation of employees throughout the world, we expect to face greater competition from firms that provide services on a global basis.The title and settlement services business is highly competitive and fragmented. The number and size of competing companies vary in the different areas in which we conduct business. We compete with other title insurers, title agents and vendor management companies. The title and settlement services business competes with a large, fragmented group of smaller underwriters and agencies as well as national competitors.Several of our businesses are highly regulated and any failure to comply with such regulations or any changes in such regulations could adversely affect our business.The sale of franchises is regulated by various state laws as well as by the FTC. The FTC requires that franchisors make extensive disclosure to prospective franchisees but does not require registration. A number of states require registration and/or disclosure in connection with franchise offers and sales. In addition, several states have "franchise relationship laws" or "business opportunity laws" that limit the ability of franchisors to terminate franchise agreements or to withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of these agreements.Our company owned real estate brokerage business must comply with the requirements governing the licensing and conduct of real estate brokerage and brokerage-related businesses in the jurisdictions in which we do business. These laws and regulations contain general standards for and limitations on the conduct of real estate brokers and sales associates, including those relating to licensing of brokers and sales associates, fiduciary and agency duties, administration of trust funds, collection of commissions, advertising and consumer disclosures. Under state law, our real estate brokers have certain duties and are responsible for the conduct of their brokerage business. Our company owned real estate brokerage business, our relocation business, our mortgage origination joint venture, our title and settlement service business and the businesses of our franchisees (excluding commercial brokerage transactions) must comply with the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act ("RESPA"). RESPA and comparable state statutes, among other things, restrict payments which real estate brokers, agents and other settlement service providers may receive for the referral of business to other settlement service providers in connection with the closing of real estate transactions. Such laws may to some extent restrict preferred vendor arrangements involving our franchisees and our company owned brokerage business. RESPA and similar state laws also require timely disclosure of certain relationships or financial interests that a broker has with providers of real estate settlement services. Pursuant to Dodd-Frank, administration of RESPA has been moved from HUD to the CFPB. The CFPB is taking an expansive reading of RESPA and has been more active in enforcement efforts, which we believe creates increased regulatory risk to the mortgage and title and settlement services industries.Our title insurance business also is subject to regulation by insurance and other regulatory authorities in each state in which we provide title insurance. State regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on our ability to take actions that we may want to take to enhance our operating results.We are also, to a lesser extent, subject to various other rules and regulations such as "controlled business" statutes, which impose limitations on affiliations between providers of title and settlement services, on the one hand, and real estate brokers, mortgage lenders and other real estate providers, on the other hand, or similar laws or regulations that would limit or restrict transactions among affiliates in a manner that would limit or restrict collaboration among our businesses.Pursuant to legislation enacted in the State of New York in late 2014 requiring the licensing of title agents, the New York Department of Insurance has issued regulations that provide that title agents with affiliated businesses may not accept referrals from affiliated sources unless they also have significant and multiple sources of non-affiliated business. In all of our business units there is a risk that we could be adversely affected by current laws, regulations or interpretations or that more restrictive laws, regulations or interpretations that could increase responsibilities and duties to customers and franchisees and other parties. The adoption of which could make compliance more difficult or expensive. 28Table of ContentsThere is also a risk that a change in current laws could adversely affect our business. In addition, any adverse changes in regulatory interpretations, rules and laws that would place additional limitations or restrictions on affiliated transactions could have the effect of limiting or restricting collaboration among our business units. We cannot assure you that future legislative or regulatory changes will not adversely affect our business operations.Regulatory authorities also have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. Accordingly, such regulatory authorities could prevent or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us if our financial condition or our practices were found not to comply with the then current regulatory or licensing requirements or any interpretation of such requirements by the regulatory authority. Our failure to comply with any of these requirements or interpretations could limit our ability to renew current franchisees or sign new franchisees or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our operations.Our international business activities, and in particular our relocation business, must comply with applicable laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.K. Bribery Act that impose sanctions on improper payments.Our failure to comply with any of the foregoing laws and regulations may subject us to fines, penalties, injunctions and/ or potential criminal violations. Any changes to these laws or regulations or any new laws or regulations may make it more difficult for us to operate our business and may have a material adverse effect on our operations.Changes in accounting standards, subjective assumptions and estimates used by management related to complex accounting matters could have an adverse effect on results of operations.Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidance and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters, such as stock-based compensation, asset impairments, valuation reserves, income taxes and fair value accounting, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments made by management. Changes in these rules or their interpretations or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments made by management could significantly change our reported results.We may not have the ability to complete future acquisitions.At varying times, we have pursued an active acquisition strategy as a means of strengthening our businesses and have sought to integrate acquisitions into our operations to achieve economies of scale. The success of our future acquisition strategy will continue to depend upon our ability to fund such acquisitions given our total outstanding indebtedness, find suitable acquisition candidates on favorable terms and to finance and complete these transactions and for target companies to find our acquisition proposals more favorable than those made by companies with which we compete.We may not realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions.Integrating acquired companies involves complex operational and personnel related challenges, including:•the possible defection of a significant number of employees and independent sales associates;•increased amortization of intangibles;•the disruption of our respective ongoing businesses;•possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies;•the failure to maintain important business relationships and contracts;•unanticipated costs of terminating or relocating facilities and operations;•unanticipated expenses related to integration; and•potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses.A prolonged diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of any business that we have acquired or may acquire in the future could prevent us from realizing the anticipated cost savings and revenue growth from our acquisitions.We may be unable to maintain anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring activities.We have achieved cost savings from various restructuring initiatives targeted at reducing costs and enhancing organizational effectiveness while consolidating existing processes and facilities. We may not be able to maintain these cost savings and other benefits in the future.29Table of ContentsOur international operations are subject to risks not generally experienced by our U.S. operations.Our relocation services business operates worldwide, and to a lesser extent, our real estate franchise services segment has international franchisees and master franchisees. For the year ended December 31, 2014, revenues from these operations represented approximately 2% of our total revenues. Our international operations are subject to risks not generally experienced by our U.S. operations. The risks involved in our international operations and relationships that could result in losses against which we are not insured and therefore affect our profitability include:•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;•exposure to local economic conditions and local laws and regulations, including those relating to our employees;•economic and/or credit conditions abroad;•potential adverse changes in the political stability of foreign countries or in their diplomatic relations with the U.S.;•restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings;•government policies against businesses owned by foreigners;•investment restrictions or requirements;•onerous employment laws;•diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights and use of our trademarks in foreign countries;•difficulties in registering, protecting or preserving trade names and trademarks in foreign countries;•difficulties in complying with franchise disclosure and registration requirements in foreign countries;•restrictions on the ability to obtain or retain licenses required for operations;•withholding and other taxes on third party cross-border transactions as well as remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;•changes in foreign taxation structures; •compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act or similar laws of other countries; and•data protection and privacy laws.We may incur substantial and unexpected liabilities arising out of our pension plan.We have a defined benefit pension plan for which participation was frozen as of July 1, 1997; however, the plan is subject to minimum funding requirements. Although the Company to date has met its minimum funding requirements, the pension plan represents a liability on our balance sheet and will generate substantial cash requirements for us, which may increase beyond our expectations in future years based on changing market conditions. For example, as of the end of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, for financial reporting purposes, we estimated that required cash contributions will be between $9 million and $10 million each year for the next five years and approximately $51 million over the succeeding five years. In addition, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our pension plan and cause volatility in the future funding requirements of the plan.Our ability to use our net operating losses ("NOLs") and other tax attributes may be limited.Our ability to utilize NOLs and other tax attributes could be limited by the "ownership change" we underwent within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), as a result of the sale of our common stock in our initial public offering and the related transactions. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50 percentage point increase in equity ownership by 5% stockholders in any three-year period. Pursuant to rules under Section 382 of the Code and a published Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") notice, a company's "net unrealized built-in gain" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code may reduce the limitation on such company's ability to utilize NOLs resulting from an ownership change. Although there can be no assurance in this regard, we believe that the limitation on our ability to utilize our NOLs resulting from our ownership change should be significantly reduced as a result of our net unrealized built-in gain. Even assuming we are able to use our unrealized built-in gain, the cash tax benefit from our NOLs is dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient taxable income. Although we believe that we will be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully utilize our NOLs, we may be unable to earn enough taxable income prior to the expiration of our NOLs.30Table of ContentsWe are responsible for certain of Cendant's contingent and other corporate liabilities.Although we have resolved various Cendant contingent and other corporate liabilities and have established reserves for most of the remaining unresolved claims of which we have knowledge, adverse outcomes from the unresolved Cendant liabilities for which Realogy Group has assumed partial liability under the Separation and Distribution Agreement (as defined below) could be material with respect to our earnings or cash flows in any given reporting period.Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our significant indebtedness and interest obligations could prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments and could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations, react to changes in the economy or our industry, or incur additional borrowings under our existing facilities.We are significantly encumbered by our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2014, our total debt, excluding our securitization obligations, was $3,910 million (without giving effect to outstanding letters of credit). Our liquidity position has been, and is expected to continue to be, negatively impacted by the substantial interest expense on our debt obligations. While we intend to use a substantial portion of future free cash flow generation to reduce our outstanding indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate free cash flow from operations or reduce the level of our indebtedness in the future.Our leverage could have important consequences, including the following:•it causes a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of interest and required amortization on our indebtedness and not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities or principal repayment;•it could cause us to be unable to comply with the senior secured leverage ratio covenant under our senior secured credit facility;•it could cause us to be unable to meet our debt service requirements under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing the Unsecured Notes and the Secured Notes or meet our other financial obligations;•it may limit our ability to incur additional borrowings under our existing facilities or securitizations, to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, business development, debt service requirements, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes, or to refinance our indebtedness;•it exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates because a portion of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, are at variable rates of interest;•it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;•it may cause a downgrade of our debt and long-term corporate ratings;•it may limit our ability to attract acquisition candidates or to complete future acquisitions;•it may cause us to be more vulnerable to periods of negative or slow growth in the general economy or in our business, or may cause us to be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth; and•it may limit our ability to attract and retain key personnel.An event of default under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our other material indebtedness would adversely affect our operations and our ability to satisfy obligations under our indebtedness.The senior secured credit facility contains restrictive covenants, including a requirement that we maintain a specified senior secured leverage ratio, which is defined as the ratio of our total senior secured debt (net of unrestricted cash and permitted investments) to trailing four quarter Adjusted EBITDA. If we are unable to comply with the senior secured leverage ratio covenant or other restrictive covenants and we fail to remedy or avoid a default as permitted under the senior secured credit facility, there would be an "event of default" under the senior secured credit facility.Other events of default include, without limitation, nonpayment of principal or interest, material misrepresentations, insolvency, bankruptcy, certain material judgments, change of control, and cross-events of default on material indebtedness as well as failure to obtain an unqualified audit opinion by 90 days after the end of any fiscal year. Upon the occurrence of any event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders:•will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us;31Table of Contents•could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable;•could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or•could prevent us from making payments on the Unsecured Notes or the Secured Notes, any of which could result in an event of default under the indentures governing the Secured Notes and the Unsecured Notes or our Apple Ridge Funding LLC securitization program.If we were unable to repay the amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facility or meet our payment obligations with respect to the Secured Notes, the lenders and holders of such debt under our senior secured credit facility could proceed against the collateral granted to secure the senior secured credit facility and the Secured Notes. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral to secure such indebtedness. If the lenders under our senior secured credit facility or holders of the Secured Notes accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facility and our other indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. In the future, we may need to seek new financing or explore the possibility of amending the terms of our senior secured credit facility, and we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or terms that are acceptable to us, if at all.In addition, if an event of default is continuing under our senior secured credit facility, the indentures governing the Unsecured Notes, the Secured Notes or our other material indebtedness, such event could cause a termination of our ability to obtain future advances under, and amortization of, our Apple Ridge Funding LLC securitization program.Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.At December 31, 2014, $1,887 million of our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility was at variable rates of interest thereby exposing us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase from their current historically low rates, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. Although we have entered into interest rate swaps involving the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments to reduce interest rate volatility for a portion of our variable rate borrowings, such interest rate swaps do not eliminate interest rate volatility for all of our variable rate indebtedness at December 31, 2014.Restrictive covenants under our indentures and the senior secured credit facility may limit the manner in which we operate.Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the Unsecured Notes and the Secured Notes contain various negative covenants that restrict our ability to engage in various activities, including but not limited to incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing or redeeming capital stock or making loans, investments or acquisitions. Additional indebtedness permitted to be incurred under our current debt agreements as well as future indebtedness we may incur also may contain negative covenants restricting our ability to engage in various activities. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs.Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common StockThe price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, many of which are outside our control, including those described above and the following:•sales of common stock by members of our management team or future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including but not limited to shares we may issue from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions or investments;•our operating and financial performance and prospects; •housing and mortgage finance markets;•the incurrence of additional indebtedness or other adverse changes relating to our debt;•our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;•future announcements concerning our business or our competitors' businesses;•the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC;32Table of Contents•changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by sell-side securities analysts who track our common stock or ratings changes or commentary by rating agencies on our debt;•market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy;•strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;•actual or potential changes in laws, regulations and regulatory interpretations;•changes in demographics relating to housing such as household formation;•changing consumer attitudes concerning home ownership;•changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;•arrival and departure of key personnel;•adverse resolution of new or pending litigation, arbitration or regulatory proceedings against us; and•changes in general market, economic and political conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from natural disasters, terrorist attacks, acts of war and responses to such events.These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of our common stock is low.Texas insurance laws and regulations may delay or impede purchases of our common stock.The insurance laws and regulations of Texas, the jurisdiction in which our title insurance underwriter subsidiary is domiciled, generally provide that no person may acquire control, directly or indirectly, of a Texas domiciled insurer, unless the person has provided required information to, and the acquisition is approved or not disapproved by, the Texas Department of Insurance. Generally, any person acquiring beneficial ownership of 10% or more of our voting securities would be presumed to have acquired indirect control of our title insurance underwriter subsidiary unless the Texas Department of Insurance, upon application, determines otherwise. Certain purchasers of our common stock could be subject to approvals from the Texas Department of Insurance which could significantly delay or otherwise impede their ability to complete such purchase.We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock, so stockholders may not receive funds without selling their common stock.We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock and anticipate that a significant amount of any free cash flow generated from our operations will be utilized to redeem or prepay outstanding indebtedness and accordingly would not be available for dividends. Any declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our Board of Directors deems relevant.Certain of our debt instruments contain covenants that restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. Furthermore, we will be permitted under the terms of our debt instrument to incur additional indebtedness, which may restrict or prevent us from paying dividends on our common stock. Agreements governing any future indebtedness, in addition to those governing our current indebtedness, may not permit us to pay dividends on our common stock.Delaware law and our organizational documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could deprive our investors of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares.We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may make it more difficult for, or prevent a third party from, acquiring control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. Among other things, these provisions:•do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;•delegate the sole power to a majority of the Board of Directors to fix the number of directors;33Table of Contents•provide the power of our Board of Directors to fill any vacancy on our Board of Directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise;•authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders;•eliminate the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; •prohibit stockholders from acting by written consent; and•establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.The foregoing factors could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential investor from making a tender offer for our common stock which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market value of our common stock and our investors' ability to realize any potential change-in-control premium.We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future, which could make it difficult for another company to acquire us or could otherwise adversely affect holders of our common stock, which could depress the price of our common stock.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue one or more series of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors will have the authority to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Our preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our common stock. The potential issuance of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control of us, discouraging bids for our common stock at a premium to the market price, and materially and adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock.