Item 1A. Risk Factors.You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report. The risk factors generally have been separated into three groups: (1) risks relating to our business; (2) risks relating to our indebtedness; and (3) risks relating to an investment in our common stock. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company and our common stock. However, the risks and uncertainties are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business The residential real estate market is cyclical and we are negatively impacted by downturns in this market and general economic conditions.The residential real estate market tends to be cyclical and typically is affected by changes in general economic conditions which are beyond our control. Based upon data published by NAR, from 2005 to 2011, annual U.S. existing homesale units declined by 40% and the median homesale price declined by 24%. During 2012, the U.S. residential real estate market evidenced the beginning of a housing recovery. However, we cannot predict the duration or strength of the recovery or if and when the market and related economic forces will return the U.S. residential real estate industry to a period of sustained growth. If the residential real estate market or the economy as a whole does not improve, our business, financial condition and liquidity may be materially adversely affected, including our ability to access capital and grow our business.Any of the following could halt or limit a recovery in the housing market and have a material adverse effect on our business by causing a lack of sustained growth or a decline in the number of homesales and/or prices which, in turn, could adversely affect our revenues and profitability:•continued high unemployment;•a period of slow economic growth or recessionary conditions;•weak credit markets;•a low level of consumer confidence in the economy and/or the residential real estate market;•instability of financial institutions;•economic instability stemming from ongoing high levels of U.S. government debt;•legislative, tax or regulatory changes that would adversely impact the residential real estate market, including but not limited to: potential reform relating to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other government sponsored entities (“GSEs”) that provide liquidity to the U.S. housing and mortgage markets; federal and/or state income tax changes, such as the loss or caps on the deductions including potential limits on, or elimination of, the deductibility of certain mortgage interest expense; and other tax reform affecting real estate and/or real estate transactions; •increasing mortgage rates and down payment requirements and/or constraints on the availability of mortgage financing, including but not limited to the potential impact of various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act or other legislation and regulations that may be promulgated thereunder relating to mortgage financing, including restrictions imposed on mortgage originators as well as retention levels required to be maintained by sponsors to securitize certain mortgages;•excessive or insufficient regional home inventory levels;•renewed high levels of foreclosure activity including but not limited to the release of homes already held for sale by financial institutions;•adverse changes in local or regional economic conditions;•the inability or unwillingness of homeowners to enter into homesale transactions due to negative equity in their existing homes;•a decrease in the affordability of homes;20Table of Contents•decreasing home ownership rates, declining demand for real estate and changing social attitudes toward home ownership; and/or•acts of God, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters that disrupt local or regional real estate markets.Seasonal fluctuations in the residential real estate brokerage and relocation businesses could adversely affect our business.The residential real estate brokerage and relocation businesses are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, operating results and revenues for all of our businesses have been strongest in the second and third quarters of the calendar year. A significant portion of the expenses we incur in our real estate brokerage operations are related to marketing activities and commissions and are, therefore, variable. However, many of our other expenses, such as interest payments, facilities costs and certain personnel related costs, are fixed and cannot be reduced during a seasonal slowdown. Consequently, our debt balances are generally at their highest levels at or around the end of the first and fourth quarters of every year. If the housing market does not experience a sustained recovery, we may be required to seek additional sources of working capital for our future liquidity needs. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all.A decline or lack of sustained growth in the number of homesales and/or prices would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. A decline or lack of sustained growth in existing homesales, insufficient or fluctuating levels of homesale inventory, stagnation or a decline in home prices or a decline in commission rates charged by brokers would adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the royalties we receive from our franchisees and company owned brokerages, reducing the commissions our company owned brokerage operations earn, reducing the demand for our title and settlement services and reducing the referral fees earned by our relocation services business. For example, for 2012, a 100 basis point (or 1%) decline in either our homesale sides or the average selling price of closed homesale transactions, with all else being equal, would have decreased EBITDA by $12 million for our Real Estate Franchise Services and our Company Owned Real Estate Brokerage Services segments on a combined basis.Adverse developments in general business, economic and political conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations.Our business and operations and those of our franchisees are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the U.S. and worldwide. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, levels of unemployment, consumer confidence and the general condition of the U.S. and the world economy.The residential real estate market also depends upon the strength of financial institutions, which are sensitive to changes in the general macroeconomic environment. Lack of available credit or lack of confidence in the financial sector could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A host of factors beyond our control could cause fluctuations in these conditions, including the political environment and acts or threats of war or terrorism which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations.Tightened mortgage underwriting standards could continue to reduce homebuyers' ability to access the credit markets on reasonable terms.During the past several years, many lenders have significantly tightened their underwriting standards, and many subprime and other alternative mortgage products have become less available in the marketplace. If these trends continue and mortgage loans continue to be difficult to obtain, including in the jumbo mortgage markets important to our higher value and luxury brands, the ability and willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases or to sell their existing homes will be adversely affected, which will adversely affect our operating results.Potential reform of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae or a reduction in U.S. government support for the housing market could have a material impact on our operations.Numerous pieces of legislation seeking various types of changes for GSEs have been introduced in Congress to reform the U.S. housing finance market, including, among other things, changes designed to reduce government support for housing finance and the winding down of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae over a period of years. In August 2012, the U.S. Treasury announced modifications to its preferred stock investments in these entities that are aimed at winding these entities down through an orderly process. Legislation, if enacted, or further regulation which curtails Freddie Mac and/or Fannie Mae's activities and/or results in the wind down of these entities could increase mortgage costs and could result in more stringent underwriting guidelines imposed by lenders or cause other disruptions in the mortgage industry, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on 21Table of Contentsthe housing market in general and our operations in particular. Given the current uncertainty with respect to the extent, if any, of such reform, it is difficult to predict either the long-term or short-term impact of government action that may be taken.At present, the U.S. government also is attempting, through various avenues, to increase loan modifications for home owners with negative equity. There can be no assurance that these measures or any other governmental action will support a sustained recovery in the housing market.The Dodd-Frank Act and other financial reform legislation may, among other things, result in new rules and regulations that may adversely affect the housing industry.On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law for the express purpose of regulating the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes new standards and practices for mortgage originators, including:•determining a prospective borrower's ability to repay their mortgage; •removing incentives for higher cost mortgages; •prohibiting prepayment penalties for non-qualified mortgages; •prohibiting mandatory arbitration clauses; •requiring additional disclosures to potential borrowers; and•restricting the fees that mortgage originators may collect. These standards and practices, and the recent regulations promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act, include limitations, which are scheduled to become effective in 2014, on the amount that a mortgage originator may receive in fees with respect to a “qualified mortgage,” including fees received by affiliates of the mortgage originator. To qualify as a "qualified mortgage," the total fees charged by a mortgage originator may not exceed 3% of the principal of the mortgage. To the extent a loan is not a "qualified mortgage," the loan originator may be required to retain a portion of the economic interest in the credit risk associated with the mortgages they originate. Such limitation could adversely affect the fees received by TRG, as provider of title and settlement services, in transactions originated by our joint venture, PHH Home Loans. While we are continuing to evaluate all aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act, such legislation and regulations promulgated pursuant to such legislation as well as other legislation that may be enacted to reform the U.S. housing finance market could:•materially and adversely affect the mortgage and housing industries;•result in heightened federal regulation and oversight of the mortgage and housing industries;•increase down payment requirements, •increase mortgage costs and, as a result, limit mortgage availability, •curtail affiliated business transactions; and/or•result in increased costs and potential litigation for housing market participants.Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the operation and practices of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and other GSEs and require sponsors of securitizations to retain a portion of the economic interest in the credit risk associated with the assets securitized by them. Substantial reduction in, or the elimination of, GSE demand for mortgage loans could have a material adverse effect on the mortgage industry and the housing industry in general and these provisions may reduce the availability of mortgages to certain individuals.Monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies may have a material impact on our operations.Our business is significantly affected by the monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. The Federal Reserve Board's policies affect the real estate market through their effect on interest rates as well as the pricing on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities.We are negatively impacted by any rising interest rate environment. As mortgage rates rise, the number of homesale transactions may decrease as potential home sellers choose to stay with their lower mortgage rather than sell their home and a pay a higher mortgage with the purchase of another home, and potential home buyers choose to rent rather than pay higher mortgage rates. An increase in mortgage rates could also reduce the number of homesale refinancing transactions. Changes in the Federal Reserve Board's policies, the interest rate environment and mortgage market are beyond our control, are difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22Table of ContentsInterest rates are at historic lows and when those rates increase they may have varying degrees of impact on our business depending on the rate or pace of the rising rates.Our company owned brokerage operations are subject to geographic and high-end real estate market risks, which could continue to adversely affect our revenues and profitability.Our subsidiary, NRT, owns real estate brokerage offices located in and around large metropolitan areas in the U.S. Local and regional economic conditions in these locations could differ materially from prevailing conditions in other parts of the country. NRT has more offices and realizes more of its revenues in California, Florida and the New York metropolitan area than any other regions in the country. For the year ended December 31, 2011, NRT realized approximately 64% of its revenues from California (28%), the New York metropolitan area (25%) and Florida (11%). For the year ended December 31, 2012, NRT realized approximately 63% of its revenues from California (29%), the New York metropolitan area (24%) and Florida (10%). A downturn in residential real estate demand or economic conditions that is concentrated in these regions could result in a decline in NRT's total gross commission income and profitability disproportionate to the downturn experienced throughout the U.S. and could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, given the significant geographic overlap of our title and settlement services business with our company owned brokerage offices, such regional declines affecting our company owned brokerage operations could have a disproportionate adverse effect on our title and settlement services business as well. A downturn in residential real estate demand or economic conditions in these states could continue to result in a decline in our overall revenues and have a material adverse effect on us.NRT has a significant concentration of transactions at the higher end of the U.S. real estate market. A shift in NRT's mix of property transactions from the high range to lower and middle range homes would adversely affect the average price of NRT's closed homesales.Our financial results are affected by the operating results of franchisees.Our real estate franchise services segment receives revenue in the form of royalties, which are based on a percentage of gross commission income earned by our franchisees. Accordingly, the financial results of our real estate franchise services segment are dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. If industry trends or economic conditions are not sustained or do not continue to improve, our franchisees' financial results may worsen and our royalty revenues may decline. Gross closed commission income of our new franchisees may never materialize and accordingly we may not receive any material royalty revenues from new franchisees. In addition, we may have to increase our bad debt and note reserves. We may also have to terminate franchisees more frequently due to non-reporting and non-payment. Further, if franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements, or if we decide to restructure franchise agreements in order to induce franchisees to renew these agreements, then our royalty revenues may decrease, and profitability from new franchisees may be lower than in the past due to reduced net royalty rates, non-standard incentives and higher expenses from licensing fees.Our franchisees and independent sales associates could take actions that could harm our business.Our franchisees are independent business operators and the sales associates that work with our company owned brokerage operations are independent contractors, and, as such, neither are our employees, and we do not exercise control over their day-to-day operations. Our franchisees may not successfully operate a real estate brokerage business in a manner consistent with industry standards, or may not hire and train qualified independent sales associates or employees. If our franchisees and independent sales associates were to provide diminished quality of service to customers, our image and reputation may suffer materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Improper actions by our franchisees may also lead to direct claims against us based on theories of vicarious liability and negligence.Additionally, franchisees and independent sales associates may engage or be accused of engaging in unlawful or tortious acts such as, for example, violating the anti-discrimination requirements of the Fair Housing Act. Such acts or the accusation of such acts could harm our and our brands' image, reputation and goodwill.Franchisees, as independent business operators, may from time to time disagree with us and our strategies regarding the business or our interpretation of our respective rights and obligations under the franchise agreement. This may lead to disputes with our franchisees and we expect such disputes to occur from time to time in the future as we continue to offer franchises. To the extent we have such disputes, the attention of our management and our franchisees will be diverted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.23Table of ContentsClients of our relocation business may terminate their contracts, and clients of our lender channel business at TRG may terminate their relationships with us at any time.Substantially all of our contracts with our relocation clients are terminable at any time at the option of the client and are non-exclusive. If a client terminates its contract, we will only be compensated for all services performed up to the time of termination and reimbursed for all expenses incurred up to the time of termination. In addition, TRG's lender channel business is highly dependent on our relationships with institutional clients who have not historically entered into contracts with us. If a significant number of our relocation clients terminate their contracts with us or if our relationships with the institutional clients in TRG's lender channel business deteriorate, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our business could also be materially adversely affected if there is a material reduction in the volume of business we receive from these customers.Loss or attrition among our senior management or other key employees could adversely affect our financial performance.Our success is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and other key employees. Our ability to retain our employees is generally subject to numerous factors, including the compensation and benefits we pay, the mix between the fixed and variable compensation we pay our employees, prevailing compensation rates and recruiting efforts of our competitors, which in certain cases, involves the raiding of our employees. If we were to lose key employees and not promptly fill their positions with comparably qualified individuals, our business may be materially adversely affected.We are subject to certain risks related to litigation filed by or against us, and adverse results may harm our business and financial condition.We cannot predict with certainty the cost of defense, the cost of prosecution, insurance coverage or the ultimate outcome of litigation and other proceedings filed by or against us, including remedies or damage awards, and adverse results in such litigation and other proceedings, including treble damages, may harm our business and financial condition. Such litigation and other proceedings may include, but are not limited to, actions relating to intellectual property, commercial arrangements, franchising arrangements, negligence and fiduciary duty claims arising from franchising arrangements or company owned brokerage operations, actions against our title company alleging it knew or should have known others were committing mortgage fraud, standard brokerage disputes like the failure to disclose hidden defects in the property such as mold, vicarious liability based upon conduct of individuals or entities outside of our control, including franchisees and independent sales associates, antitrust claims, general fraud claims and employment law claims, including claims challenging the classification of our sales associates as independent contractors and compliance with wage and hour regulations, and claims alleging violations of RESPA or state consumer fraud statutes. In addition, class action lawsuits can often be particularly vexatious litigation given the breadth of claims, the large potential damages claimed and the significant costs of defense. The risks of litigation become magnified, and the costs of settlement increase, in class actions in which the courts grant partial or full certification of a large class. In the case of intellectual property litigation and proceedings, adverse outcomes could include the cancellation, invalidation or other loss of material intellectual property rights used in our business and injunctions prohibiting our use of business processes or technology that is subject to third party patents or other third party intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) and pay royalties. We are reliant upon information technology to operate our business and maintain our competitiveness, and any disruption or reduction in our information technology capabilities could harm our business.Our business, including our ability to attract employees and independent sales agents, increasingly depends upon the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems, including technology and systems (mobile and otherwise) utilized for communications, marketing, productivity tools, lead generation, records of transactions, procurement, call center operations and administrative systems. The operation of these technologies and systems is dependent upon third party technologies, systems and services, for which there are no assurances of continued or uninterrupted availability and support by the applicable third party vendors on commercially reasonable terms. We also cannot assure that we will be able to continue to effectively operate and maintain our information technologies and systems. In addition, our information technologies and systems are expected to require refinements and enhancements on an ongoing basis, and we expect that advanced new technologies and systems will continue to be introduced. We may not be able to obtain such new technologies and systems, or to replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as our competitors or in a cost-effective manner. Also, we may not achieve the benefits anticipated or required from any new technology or system, and we may not be able to devote financial resources to new technologies and systems in the future.In addition, our information technologies and systems and those of our suppliers are vulnerable to breach, damage or interruption from various causes, including: (1) natural disasters, war and acts of terrorism, (2) power losses, computer systems failure, Internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator error, losses and corruption of data, and similar events and (3) computer viruses, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information and other 24Table of Contentsphysical or electronic breaches of security. We maintain certain disaster recovery capabilities for critical functions in most of our businesses, including certain disaster recovery services from third party vendors. We also have certain protections designed to protect against breaches. However, these capabilities may not successfully prevent a disruption to or material adverse effect on our businesses or operations in the event of a disaster, theft of data or other business interruption. Any extended interruption in our technologies or systems or significant breach could significantly curtail our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue. Additionally, our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur.We do not own two of our brands and must manage cooperative relationships with both owners.The Sotheby's International Realty® and Better Homes and Gardens® Real Estate brands are owned by the companies that founded these brands. We are the exclusive party licensed to run brokerage services in residential real estate under those brands, whether through our franchisees or our company owned operations. Our future operations and performance with respect to these brands requires the continued cooperation from the owners of those brands and successful protection of those brands. In particular, Sotheby's has the right to approve the international franchisees of, and the material terms of our international franchise agreements governing our relationships with, our Sotheby's franchisees located outside the U.S., which approval cannot be unreasonably withheld or delayed. If Sotheby's unreasonably withholds or delays its approval for new international franchisees, our relationship with them could be disrupted. Any significant disruption of the relationships with the owners of these brands could impede our franchising of those brands and have a material adverse effect on our operations and performance.The weakening or unavailability of our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our business.Our trademarks, trade names, domain names, trade dress and other intellectual property rights are fundamental to our brands and our franchising business. The steps we take to obtain, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate and, in particular, we may not own all necessary registrations for our intellectual property. Applications we have filed to register our intellectual property may not be approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities. Our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. We may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property rights without our authorization or independently developing technology that is similar to ours. Also, third parties may own rights in similar trademarks. Any unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties could reduce any competitive advantage we have developed or otherwise harm our business and brands. If we had to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be costly, and we may not prevail. Our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks, may fail to provide us with significant competitive advantages in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions that do not have or do not enforce strong intellectual property rights.We cannot be certain that our intellectual property does not and will not infringe issued intellectual property rights of others. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation. Depending on the success of these proceedings, we may be required to enter into licensing or consent agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all), or to pay damages or cease using certain service marks or trademarks.We franchise our brands to franchisees. While we try to ensure that the quality of our brands is maintained by all of our franchisees, we cannot assure that these franchisees will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property or our reputation.Our license agreement with Sotheby's for the use of the Sotheby's International Realty® brand is terminable by Sotheby's prior to the end of the license term if certain conditions occur, including but not limited to the following: (1) we attempt to assign any of our rights under the license agreement in any manner not permitted under the license agreement, (2) we become bankrupt or insolvent, (3) a court issues a non-appealable, final judgment that we have committed certain breaches of the license agreement and we fail to cure such breaches within 60 days of the issuance of such judgment, or (4) we discontinue the use of all of the trademarks licensed under the license agreement for a period of twelve consecutive months.Our license agreement with Meredith Corporation (“Meredith”) for the use of the Better Homes and Gardens® Real Estate brand is terminable by Meredith prior to the end of the license term if certain conditions occur, including but not limited to the following: (1) we attempt to assign any of our rights under the license agreement in any manner not permitted under the license agreement, (2) we become bankrupt or insolvent, or (3) a trial court issues a final judgment that we are in material breach of the license agreement or any representation or warranty we made was false or materially misleading when made.25Table of ContentsOur marketing arrangement with PHH Home Loans may limit our ability to work with other key lenders to grow our business.Under our Strategic Relationship Agreement relating to PHH Home Loans, we are required to recommend PHH Home Loans as originator of mortgage loans to the independent sales associates, customers and employees of our company owned and operated brokerage offices. This provision may limit our ability to enter into beneficial business relationships with other lenders and mortgage brokers.We do not control the joint venture PHH Home Loans and PHH as the managing partner of that venture may make decisions that are contrary to our best interests.Under our Operating Agreement with PHH relating to PHH Home Loans, we own a 49.9% equity interest but do not have control of the operations of the joint venture. Rather, our joint venture partner, PHH, is the managing partner of the venture and may make decisions with respect to the operation of the venture, which may harm the joint venture or be contrary to our best interests and may adversely affect our results of operations or equity interest in the joint venture. In addition, our joint venture may be materially adversely impacted by changes affecting the mortgage industry, including but not limited to regulatory changes, increases in mortgage interest rates and decreases in operating margins.In the event of a termination of our joint venture PHH Home Loans, our earnings derived from the business that had been conducted by the joint venture and the related marketing fees that our franchise segment earns from PHH could be materially adversely affected.Either party has the right to terminate the joint venture upon the occurrence of certain events, such as a material breach by the other party of any representation, warranty, covenant or other agreement contained in the Operating Agreement, Strategic Relationship Agreement or certain other related agreements that is not cured following any applicable notice or cure period, or the insolvency of the other party. In addition, we may terminate the joint venture at our election by providing two years' prior notice to PHH at any time after January 31, 2015, and PHH may terminate the venture at its election effective January 31, 2030 by notice delivered no earlier than three years, but not later than two years, before such date. Upon any termination of the joint venture by us, we may require that PHH purchases our interest or sells its interest to a buyer designated by us. Upon any termination of the joint venture by PHH, PHH will be entitled to purchase our interest. In each case, the purchase price would be the fair market value of the interest sold.If the joint venture is terminated, we may not be able to replace PHH with a new joint venture partner on terms comparable to us as those contained in the existing agreements governing the joint venture and, even if successful in finding a replacement partner, may incur expenses or loss of mortgage related earnings during any such transition. We may also decide not to continue to engage in the loan origination business conducted by the joint venture. In the event of a termination of the joint venture, our earnings derived from the business that had been conducted by the joint venture and the related marketing fees that we earned from PHH could be materially adversely affected.We may experience significant claims relating to our operations, and losses resulting from fraud, defalcation or misconduct.We issue title insurance policies which provide coverage for real property to mortgage lenders and buyers of real property. When acting as a title agent issuing a policy on behalf of an underwriter, our insurance risk is typically limited to the first $5,000 of claims on any one policy, though our insurance risk is not limited if we are negligent. The title underwriter which we acquired in January 2006 typically underwrites title insurance policies of up to $1.5 million. For policies in excess of $1.5 million, we typically obtain a reinsurance policy from a national underwriter to reinsure the excess amount. To date, our title underwriter has experienced claims losses that are significantly below the industry average; however, our claims experience could increase in the future, which could negatively impact the profitability of that business. We may also be subject to legal claims or additional claims losses arising from the handling of escrow transactions and closings by our owned titled agencies or our underwriter's independent title agents. We carry errors and omissions insurance for errors made by our company owned brokerage business during the real estate settlement process as well as errors by us related to real estate services. Our franchise agreements also require our franchisees to name us as an additional insured on their errors and omissions and general liability insurance policies. The occurrence of a significant claim in excess of our insurance coverage (including any coverage under franchisee insurance policies) in any given period could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations during the period. In addition, insurance carriers may dispute coverage for various reasons and there can be no assurance that all claims will be covered by insurance.Fraud, defalcation and misconduct by employees are also risks inherent in our business, particularly given our high transactional volumes in our company owned brokerage, title and settlement services and our relocation businesses. We may also from time to time be subject to liability claims based upon the fraud or misconduct of our franchisees. To the extent that any loss or theft of funds substantially exceeds our insurance coverage, our business could be materially adversely affected.26Table of ContentsIn addition, we rely on the collection and use of personally identifiable information from customers to conduct our business. We disclose our information collection and dissemination practices in a published privacy statement on our websites, which we may modify from time to time. We may be subject to legal claims, government action and damage to our reputation if we act or are perceived to be acting inconsistently with the terms of our privacy statement, customer expectations or the law. The occurrence of a significant claim in excess of our insurance coverage in any given period could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations during the period. In the event we or the vendors with which we contract to provide services on behalf of our customers were to suffer a breach of personally identifiable information, our customers, such as our Cartus corporate or affinity clients, could terminate their business with us. Further, we may be subject to claims to the extent individual employees or independent contractors breach or fail to adhere to Company policies and practices and such actions jeopardize any personally identifiable information. In addition, concern among potential home buyers or sellers about our privacy practices could keep them from using our services or require us to incur significant expense to alter our business practices or educate them about how we use personally identifiable information.We could be subject to significant losses if banks do not honor our escrow and trust deposits.Our company owned brokerage business and our title and settlement services business act as escrow agents for numerous customers. As an escrow agent, we receive money from customers to hold until certain conditions are satisfied. Upon the satisfaction of those conditions, we release the money to the appropriate party. We deposit this money with various banks and while these deposits are not assets of the Company (and therefore excluded from our consolidated balance sheet), we remain contingently liable for the disposition of these deposits. The banks may hold a significant amount of these deposits in excess of the federal deposit insurance limit. If any of our depository banks were to become unable to honor any portion of our deposits, customers could seek to hold us responsible for such amounts and, if the customers prevailed in their claims, we could be subject to significant losses. These escrow and trust deposits totaled $330 million at December 31, 2012.Title insurance regulations limit the ability of our insurance underwriter to pay cash dividends to us.Our title insurance underwriter is subject to regulations that limit its ability to pay dividends or make loans or advances to us, principally to protect policy holders. Generally, these regulations limit the total amount of dividends and distributions to a certain percentage of the insurance subsidiary's surplus, or 100% of statutory operating income for the previous calendar year. These restrictions could limit our ability to receive dividends from our insurance underwriter, make acquisitions or otherwise grow our business.We may be unable to continue to securitize certain of our relocation assets, which may adversely impact our liquidity or limit the scope of our relocation business.At December 31, 2012, $261 million of securitization obligations were outstanding through special purpose entities monetizing certain assets of our relocation services business under two lending facilities. We have provided a performance guaranty which guarantees the obligations of our Cartus subsidiary and its subsidiaries, as originator and servicer under the Apple Ridge securitization program. The securitization markets have experienced, and may again experience, significant disruptions which may have the effect of increasing our cost of funding or reducing our access to these markets in the future. If we are unable to continue to securitize these assets, we may be required to find additional sources of funding which may be on less favorable terms or may not be available at all. In such an event, without alternative sources of liquidity, our relocation segment's operations could be significantly curtailed.The occurrence of any trigger events under our Apple Ridge securitization facility could cause us to lose funding under that facility and therefore restrict our ability to fund the operation of our U.S. relocation business.The Apple Ridge securitization facility, which we use to advance funds on behalf of certain clients of our relocation business in order to facilitate the relocation of their employees, contains terms which if triggered may result in a termination or limitation of new or existing funding under the facility and/or may result in a requirement that all collections on the assets be used to pay down the amounts outstanding under such facility. The triggering events include but are not limited to: (1) those tied to the age and quality of the underlying assets; (2) a change of control; (3) a breach of our senior secured leverage ratio covenant under our senior secured credit facility if uncured; and (4) the acceleration of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility, unsecured or secured notes or other material indebtedness. The occurrence of a trigger event under the Apple Ridge securitization facility could restrict our ability to access new or existing funding under this facility or result in termination of the facility, either of which would adversely affect the operation of our relocation business.We are highly dependent on the availability of the asset-backed securities market to finance the operations of our relocation business, and disruptions in this market or any adverse change or delay in our ability to access the market could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations.27Table of ContentsOur Apple Ridge securitization facility, as amended in December 2011, matures in December 2013. We could encounter difficulties in renewing this facility and if this source of funding is not available to us for any reason, we could be required to borrow under the revolving credit facility or incur other indebtedness to finance our working capital needs, and there can be no assurance in this regard, or we could require our clients to fund the home purchases themselves, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business and financial objectives.Competition in the residential real estate and relocation business is intense and may adversely affect our financial performance.We generally face intense competition in the residential real estate services business. As a real estate brokerage franchisor, our products are our brand names and the support services we provide to our franchisees and our ability to grow our franchisor business is also dependent on the operational and financial success of our franchisees. •Upon the expiration of a franchise agreement, a franchisee may choose to franchise with one of our competitors or operate as an independent broker. Competitors may offer franchisees whose franchise agreements are expiring or prospective franchisees similar products and services to us at rates that are lower than we charge. In addition, we face the risk that currently unaffiliated brokers may not enter into franchise agreements with us because they believe they can compete effectively in the market without the need to license a brand of a franchisor and receive services offered by a franchisor.•Our largest national competitors in this industry may have greater financial resources than we do, including greater marketing and technology budgets, and may be less leveraged. Regional and local franchisors provide additional competitive pressure in certain areas. To remain competitive in the sale of franchises and to retain our existing franchisees, we may have to reduce the fees we charge our franchisees to be competitive with those charged by competitors, which may accelerate if market conditions deteriorate. •Our ability to succeed as a franchisor is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of our franchisees to attract and retain independent sales associates, which is subject to numerous factors, including the sales commissions they receive and their perception of brand value. If our franchisees fail to attract and retain successful independent sales associates, our business as a franchisor may be materially adversely affected.•Listing aggregators and other web-based real estate service providers may also begin to compete for part of our franchisor service revenue through referral or other fees and could disintermediate our relationships with our franchisees and our franchisees' relationships with their independent sales agents and buyer and sellers of homes. Our company owned brokerage business, like that of our franchisees, is generally in intense competition. We compete with other national independent real estate organizations, franchisees of our brands and of other national real estate franchisors, franchisees of local and regional real estate franchisors, regional independent real estate organizations, discount brokerages, and smaller niche companies competing in local areas. Real estate brokers compete for sales and marketing business primarily on the basis of services offered, reputation, utilization of technology, personal contacts and brokerage commission. •Competition is particularly severe in the densely populated metropolitan areas in which we operate. •In addition, the real estate brokerage industry has minimal barriers to entry for new participants, including participants pursuing non-traditional methods of marketing real estate, such as Internet-based brokerage or brokers who discount their commissions. Discount brokers have had varying degrees of success and, while they were negatively impacted by the prolonged downturn in the residential housing market, they may adjust their model and increase their market presence in the future. Listing aggregators and other web-based real estate service providers may also begin to compete for our company owned brokerage business by establishing relationships with independent sales agents and/or buyers and sellers of homes. •As with our real estate franchise business, a decrease in the average brokerage commission rate may adversely affect our revenues. Our average homesale commission rate per side in our Company Owned Real Estate Services segment has declined from 2.62% in 2002 to 2.49% for the year ended December 31, 2012.•We also compete for the services of qualified licensed independent sales associates. Some of the firms competing for sales associates use a different model of compensating agents, in which agents are compensated for the revenue generated by other agents that they recruit to those firms. This business model may be appealing to certain agents and hinder our ability to attract and retain those agents. The ability of our company owned brokerage offices to retain independent sales associates is generally subject to numerous factors, including the sales commissions they receive and their perception of brand value. Competition for sales associates could reduce the commission amounts retained by our 28Table of ContentsCompany after giving effect to the split with independent sales associates and possibly increase the amounts that we spend on marketing. In our relocation services business, we compete primarily with global and regional outsourced relocation service providers. As the relocation business becomes more global in nature with greater emphasis on relocation of employees throughout the world, we will face greater competition from firms that provide services on a global basis.The title and settlement services business is highly competitive and fragmented. The number and size of competing companies vary in the different areas in which we conduct business. We compete with other title insurers, title agents and vendor management companies. The title and settlement services business competes with a large, fragmented group of smaller underwriters and agencies as well as national competitors.Several of our businesses are highly regulated and any failure to comply with such regulations or any changes in such regulations could adversely affect our business.The sale of franchises is regulated by various state laws as well as by the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”). The FTC requires that franchisors make extensive disclosure to prospective franchisees but does not require registration. A number of states require registration and/or disclosure in connection with franchise offers and sales. In addition, several states have “franchise relationship laws” or “business opportunity laws” that limit the ability of franchisors to terminate franchise agreements or to withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of these agreements.Our company owned real estate brokerage business must comply with the requirements governing the licensing and conduct of real estate brokerage and brokerage-related businesses in the jurisdictions in which we do business. These laws and regulations contain general standards for and limitations on the conduct of real estate brokers and sales associates, including those relating to licensing of brokers and sales associates, fiduciary and agency duties, administration of trust funds, collection of commissions, advertising and consumer disclosures. Under state law, our real estate brokers have certain duties to supervise and are responsible for the conduct of their brokerage business. Although real estate sales agents historically have been classified as independent contractors, newer rules and interpretations of state and federal employment laws and regulations, including those governing employee classification and wage and hour regulations, may impact industry practices and our Company owned brokerage operations. Real estate licensing laws generally permit brokers to engage sales associates as independent contractors but require that the broker supervise their activities. Several of our pending litigation matters include claims alleging to employee misclassification and non-compliance with wage and hour regulations, and an adverse outcome in any such litigation could harm our business and financial condition. Our company owned real estate brokerage business, our relocation business, our mortgage origination joint venture, our title and settlement service business and the businesses of our franchisees (excluding commercial brokerage transactions) must comply with the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (“RESPA”). RESPA and comparable state statutes, among other things, restrict payments which real estate brokers, agents and other settlement service providers may receive for the referral of business to other settlement service providers in connection with the closing of real estate transactions. Such laws may to some extent restrict preferred vendor arrangements involving our franchisees and our company owned brokerage business. RESPA and similar state laws also require timely disclosure of certain relationships or financial interests that a broker has with providers of real estate settlement services. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, administration of RESPA has been moved from HUD to the new CFPB and it is possible that the practice of HUD taking very expansive readings of RESPA will continue or accelerate at the CFPB creating increased regulatory risk.Our title insurance business also is subject to regulation by insurance and other regulatory authorities in each state in which we provide title insurance. State regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on our ability to take actions that we may want to take to enhance our operating results.There is a risk that we could be adversely affected by current laws, regulations or interpretations or that more restrictive laws, regulations or interpretations will be adopted in the future that could make compliance more difficult or expensive. There is also a risk that a change in current laws could adversely affect our business. In addition, any adverse changes in regulatory interpretations, rules and laws that would place additional limitations or restrictions on affiliated transactions could have the effect of limiting or restricting collaboration among our business units. We cannot assure you that future legislative or regulatory changes will not adversely affect our business operations.Regulatory authorities also have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. Accordingly, such regulatory authorities could prevent or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us if our financial condition or our practices were found not to comply with the then current regulatory or licensing requirements or any interpretation of such requirements by the regulatory authority. Our failure to 29Table of Contentscomply with any of these requirements or interpretations could limit our ability to renew current franchisees or sign new franchisees or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our operations.We are also, to a lesser extent, subject to various other rules and regulations such as:•the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act which governs the disclosure and safeguarding of consumer financial information;•various state and federal privacy laws protecting consumer data;•the USA PATRIOT Act;•restrictions on transactions with persons on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons list promulgated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury;•federal and state “Do Not Call,” “Do Not Fax,” and “Do Not E-Mail” laws;•“controlled business” statutes, which impose limitations on affiliations between providers of title and settlement services, on the one hand, and real estate brokers, mortgage lenders and other real estate providers, on the other hand, or similar laws or regulations that would limit or restrict transactions among affiliates in a manner that would limit or restrict collaboration among our businesses;•the Affiliated Marketing Rule, which prohibits or restricts the sharing of certain consumer credit information among affiliated companies without notice and/or consent of the consumer;•the Fair Housing Act;•laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.K. Bribery Act, that impose sanctions on improper payments;•laws and regulations in jurisdictions outside the United States in which we do business;•increases in state, local or federal taxes that could diminish profitability or liquidity; •consumer fraud statutes that are broadly written; and•laws protecting the elderly.Our failure to comply with any of the foregoing laws and regulations may subject us to fines, penalties, injunctions and/ or potential criminal violations. Any changes to these laws or regulations or any new laws or regulations may make it more difficult for us to operate our business and may have a material adverse effect on our operations.Changes in accounting standards, subjective assumptions and estimates used by management related to complex accounting matters could have an adverse effect on results of operations.Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidance and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters, such as stock-based compensation, asset impairments, valuation reserves, income taxes and fair value accounting, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments made by management. Changes in these rules or their interpretations or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments made by management could significantly change our reported results.We may not have the ability to complete future acquisitions.At varying times, we have pursued an active acquisition strategy as a means of strengthening our businesses and have sought to integrate acquisitions into our operations to achieve economies of scale. Our company owned brokerage business has completed over 375 acquisitions since its formation in 1997 and, in 2004, we acquired the Sotheby's International Realty® residential brokerage business and entered into an exclusive license agreement for the rights to the Sotheby's International Realty® trademarks which are used in the Sotheby's International Realty® franchise system. In January 2006, we acquired our title insurance underwriter and certain title agencies. In addition, in 2010, we expanded the Cartus global footprint through the acquisition of Primacy. As a result of these and other acquisitions, we have derived a substantial portion of our growth in revenues and net income from acquired businesses. The success of our future acquisition strategy will continue to depend upon our ability to fund such acquisitions given our total outstanding indebtedness, find suitable acquisition candidates on favorable terms and to finance and complete these transactions and for target companies to find our acquisition proposals more favorable than those made by companies with which we compete.We may not realize anticipated benefits from future acquisitions.Integrating acquired companies involves complex operational and personnel related challenges. Future acquisitions may present similar challenges and difficulties, including:•the possible defection of a significant number of employees and independent sales associates;30Table of Contents•increased amortization of intangibles;•the disruption of our respective ongoing businesses;•possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies;•the failure to maintain important business relationships and contracts;•unanticipated costs of terminating or relocating facilities and operations;•unanticipated expenses related to integration; and•potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses.A prolonged diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of any business that we have acquired or may acquire in the future could prevent us from realizing the anticipated cost savings and revenue growth from our acquisitions.We may be unable to maintain anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring activities.We have achieved cost savings from various restructuring initiatives targeted at reducing costs and enhancing organizational effectiveness while consolidating existing processes and facilities. We may not be able to maintain these cost savings and other benefits in the future.Our international operations are subject to risks not generally experienced by our U.S. operations.Our relocation services business operates worldwide, and to a lesser extent, our real estate franchise services segment has international franchisees and master franchisees. For the year ended December 31, 2012, revenues from these operations represented approximately 3% of our total revenues. Our international operations are subject to risks not generally experienced by our U.S. operations. The risks involved in our international operations and relationships that could result in losses against which we are not insured and therefore affect our profitability include:•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;•exposure to local economic conditions and local laws and regulations, including those relating to our employees;•economic and/or credit conditions abroad;•potential adverse changes in the political stability of foreign countries or in their diplomatic relations with the U.S.;•restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings;•government policies against businesses owned by foreigners;•investment restrictions or requirements;•onerous employment laws;•diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights in foreign countries;•difficulties in registering, protecting or preserving trade names and trademarks in foreign countries;•restrictions on the ability to obtain or retain licenses required for operation;•foreign exchange restrictions;•withholding and other taxes on third party cross-border transactions as well as remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;•changes in foreign taxation structures; •compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act or similar laws of other countries; and•data protection and privacy laws.We may incur substantial and unexpected liabilities arising out of our pension plan.We have a defined benefit pension plan for which participation was frozen as of July 1, 1997, however, the plan is subject to minimum funding requirements. Although the Company to date has met its minimum funding requirements, the pension plan represents a liability on our balance sheet and will generate substantial cash requirements for us, which may increase beyond our expectations in future years based on changing market conditions. For example, as of the end of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, for financial reporting purposes, we estimated that required cash contributions will be between $8 million and $9 million each year for the next five years and approximately $48 million over the succeeding five years. In addition, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our pension plan and cause volatility in the future funding requirements of the plan.31Table of ContentsOur ability to use our net operating losses ("NOLs") and other tax attributes may be limited.Our ability to utilize NOLs and other tax attributes could be limited by the "ownership change" we underwent within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") as a result of the sale of our common stock in our initial public offering and the related transactions. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50 percentage point increase in equity ownership by 5% stockholders in any three-year period. Pursuant to rules under Section 382 of the Code and a published Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) notice, a company's “net unrealized built-in gain” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code may reduce the limitation on such company's ability to utilize NOLs resulting from an ownership change. Although there can be no assurance in this regard, we believe that the limitation on our ability to utilize our NOLs resulting from our ownership change should be significantly reduced as a result of our net unrealized built-in gain. Even assuming we are able to use our unrealized built-in gain, the cash tax benefit from our NOLs is dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient taxable income. Accordingly, we may be unable to earn enough taxable income in order to fully utilize our current NOLs.We are responsible for certain of Cendant's contingent and other corporate liabilities.Under the Separation and Distribution Agreement dated July 27, 2006 the (“Separation and Distribution Agreement”) among Realogy Group, Cendant Corporation (“Cendant”), which changed its name to Avis Budget Group, Inc. (“Avis Budget”) in August 2006, Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (“Wyndham Worldwide”) and Travelport Inc. (“Travelport”), and other agreements, subject to certain exceptions contained in the Tax Sharing Agreement dated as of July 28, 2006, as amended (the “Tax Sharing Agreement”), among Realogy Group, Wyndham Worldwide and Travelport, Realogy Group and Wyndham Worldwide have each assumed and are generally responsible for 62.5% and 37.5%, respectively, of certain of Cendant's contingent and other corporate liabilities not primarily related to the businesses of Travelport, Realogy Group, Wyndham Worldwide or Avis Budget Group. The due to former parent balance was $69 million at December 31, 2012 and represents Realogy Group's accrual of its share of potential Cendant contingent and other corporate liabilities.If any party responsible for Cendant contingent and other corporate liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any such assumed obligations related to any such contingent and other corporate liability, each non-defaulting party (including Cendant) would be required to pay an equal portion of the amounts in default. Accordingly, Realogy Group may, under certain circumstances, be obligated to pay amounts in excess of its share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities, including associated costs and expenses.Although we have resolved various Cendant contingent and other corporate liabilities and have established reserves for most of the remaining unresolved claims of which we have knowledge, adverse outcomes from the unresolved Cendant liabilities for which Realogy Group has assumed partial liability under the Separation and Distribution Agreement could be material with respect to our earnings or cash flows in any given reporting period.Risks Relating to our Indebtedness Our significant indebtedness and interest obligations could prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments and could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations, react to changes in the economy or our industry, or incur additional borrowings under our existing facilities.We are significantly encumbered by our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2012, our total debt, excluding our securitization obligations, was $4,366 million (without giving effect to outstanding letters of credit under our senior secured credit facility). Our liquidity position has been, and is expected to continue to be, negatively impacted by the substantial interest expense on our debt obligations. While we intend to use a substantial portion of future free cash flow generation to reduce our outstanding indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate free cash flow from operations or reduce the level of our indebtedness in the future.Our substantial degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following:•it causes a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of interest and required amortization on our indebtedness and not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities or principal repayment. Our significant level of interest payments are challenging in periods when seasonal cash flows in the residential real estate market are at their lowest points;•it could cause us to be unable to maintain compliance with the senior secured leverage ratio covenant under our senior secured credit facility;32Table of Contents•it could cause us to be unable to meet our debt service requirements under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing the Unsecured Notes, the First Lien Notes and the First and a Half Lien Notes or meet our other financial obligations;•it may limit our ability to incur additional borrowings under our existing facilities or securitizations, to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, business development, debt service requirements, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes, or to refinance our indebtedness;•it exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates because a portion of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, are at variable rates of interest;•it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;•it may cause a downgrade of our debt and long-term corporate ratings;•it may limit our ability to attract acquisition candidates or to complete future acquisitions;•it may cause us to be more vulnerable to periods of negative or slow growth in the general economy or in our business, or may cause us to be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth; and•it may limit our ability to attract and retain key personnel.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities and from drawings on our revolving credit facilities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness or meet our operating expenses.If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements.If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result:•our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable;•the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and•we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.We will continue to evaluate potential financing transactions. There can be no assurance that financing or refinancing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Future indebtedness may impose various additional restrictions and covenants on us which could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, to make capital investments or to take advantage of business opportunities. Our ability to make payments to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, and strategic acquisitions will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.An event of default under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our other material indebtedness would adversely affect our operations and our ability to satisfy obligations under our indebtedness.The senior secured credit facility contains restrictive covenants, including a requirement that we maintain a specified senior secured leverage ratio, which is defined as the ratio of our total senior secured debt (net of unrestricted cash and permitted investments) to trailing four quarter Adjusted EBITDA. Our senior secured leverage ratio may not exceed 4.75 to 1.0 and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2012, we were in compliance with the senior secured leverage ratio covenant with a ratio of 3.30 to 1.0. Total senior secured debt, for purposes of this ratio, does not include the First and a Half Lien Notes and other indebtedness that is unsecured or secured by a lien on our assets pari passu or junior in priority to the liens securing the First and a Half Lien Notes, including our securitization obligations or the Unsecured Notes.33Table of ContentsIf we are unable to maintain compliance with the senior secured leverage ratio covenant or other restrictive covenants and we fail to remedy or avoid a default as permitted under the senior secured credit facility, there would be an “event of default” under the senior secured credit facility.Other events of default include, without limitation, nonpayment of principal or interest, material misrepresentations, insolvency, bankruptcy, certain material judgments, change of control, and cross-events of default on material indebtedness as well as failure to obtain an unqualified audit opinion by 90 days after the end of any fiscal year. Upon the occurrence of any event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders:•will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us;•could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable;•could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or•could prevent us from making payments on the Unsecured Notes, the First Lien Notes or the First and a Half Lien Notes, any of which could result in an event of default under the indentures governing the First Lien Notes, the First and a Half Lien Notes and the Unsecured Notes or our Apple Ridge Funding LLC securitization program.If we were unable to repay the amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facility or meet our payment obligations with respect to the First Lien Notes and the First and a Half Lien Notes, the lenders and holders of such debt under our senior secured credit facility could proceed against the collateral granted to secure the senior secured credit facility and the First Lien Notes and the First and a Half Lien Notes. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral to secure such indebtedness. If the lenders under our senior secured credit facility or holders of the First Lien Notes and/or the First and a Half Lien Notes accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facility and our other indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. In the future, we may need to seek new financing, or explore the possibility of amending the terms of our senior secured credit facility, and we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us, if at all.In addition, if an event of default is continuing under our senior secured credit facility, the indentures governing the Unsecured Notes, the First Lien Notes, the First and a Half Lien Notes or our other material indebtedness, such event could cause a termination of our ability to obtain future advances under, and amortization of, our Apple Ridge Funding LLC securitization program.Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.At December 31, 2012, $1,932 million of our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility was at variable rates of interest thereby exposing us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase from their current historically low rates, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. Although we have entered into interest rate swaps, involving the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments, to reduce interest rate volatility for a portion of our variable rate borrowings, such interest rate swaps do not eliminate interest rate volatility for all of our variable rate indebtedness at December 31, 2012.Restrictive covenants under our indentures and the senior secured credit facility may limit the manner in which we operate.Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the Extended Maturity Notes, the 12.375% Senior Subordinated Notes, the First Lien Notes and the First and a Half Lien Notes contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, various covenants and conditions that limit our ability to, among other things:•incur or guarantee additional debt;•incur debt that is junior to senior indebtedness and, with respect to the Senior Subordinated Notes, senior to such Senior Subordinated Notes;•pay dividends or make distributions to Realogy Group's stockholders;•repurchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness;•make loans, investments or acquisitions;•incur restrictions on the ability of certain of Realogy Group's subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other payments to us;•enter into transactions with affiliates;•create liens;34Table of Contents•merge or consolidate with other companies or transfer all or substantially all of Realogy Group's and its material subsidiaries' assets;•transfer or sell assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; and•prepay, redeem or repurchase the Unsecured Notes, the First Lien Notes, the First and a Half Lien Notes and debt that is junior in right of payment to loans under the senior secured credit facility, the Unsecured Notes, the First Lien Notes and the First and a Half Lien Notes. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs.Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common StockThe price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, many of which are outside our control, including those described above and the following:•sales of common stock by us, Apollo, or members of our management team, including but not limited to resales under Rule 144 following expiration of the lock up agreements that were entered into in connection with our initial public offering or pursuant to registered public offerings;•sales of common stock by other holders of our common stock subject to lock-up arrangements, upon the expiration of such arrangements and other transfer restrictions;•our operating and financial performance and prospects, including but not limited to the incurrence of additional indebtedness or other adverse changes relating to our debt;•our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;•conditions that impact demand for our products and services, including the condition of the U.S. residential housing market;•future announcements concerning our business or our competitors' businesses;•the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC;•changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts who track our common stock;•market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy;•strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;•changes in government and environmental regulation;•housing and mortgage finance markets;•changes in demographics relating to housing such as household formation;•changing consumer attitudes concerning home ownership;•changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;•arrival and departure of key personnel;•adverse resolution of new or pending litigation against us;•changes in general market, economic and political conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from natural disasters, terrorist attacks, acts of war and responses to such events; and•material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting.These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of our common stock is low.Apollo effectively controls us and its interests may conflict with or differ from your interests as a stockholder.As of February 21, 2013, funds affiliated with Apollo indirectly beneficially owned approximately 45% of our common stock. As a result, Apollo has the power to strongly influence or effectively control the election of our directors. Therefore, Apollo effectively will have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of our Board of Directors or our stockholders, including the approval of significant corporate transactions such as restructurings, mergers and the sale of substantially all of our assets and so long as they continue to own a significant amount of our common stock, Apollo will continue to be able to significantly influence or effectively control our decisions. In addition, so long as Apollo holds at least 35Table of Contents25% of the voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock, a majority of the directors designated to the Board of Directors by Apollo must approve certain of our significant business decisions. Additionally, under the Securityholders Agreement dated as of October 12, 2012 between Realogy Holdings and funds affiliated with Apollo that indirectly beneficially own our common stock (the "Apollo Securityholders Agreement"), so long as these Apollo funds beneficially own (i) at least 30% but less than 50% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock, Apollo has the right to designate four directors, (ii) at least 20% but less than 30% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock, Apollo has the right to designate three directors and (iii) at least 10% but less than 20% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock, Apollo has the right to designate two directors. The interests of Apollo could conflict with or differ from the interests of holders of our common stock and other securities. For example, the concentration of ownership held by Apollo could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination that may otherwise be viewed favorably by our securityholders. In addition, pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, Apollo, and any of our directors who are affiliated with Apollo, will continue to have the right to, and will have no duty to abstain from exercising such right to, conduct business with any business that is competitive or in the same line of business as us, do business with any of our clients, customers or vendors, or make investments in the kind of property in which we may make investments. Apollo is in the business of making or advising on investments in companies and may hold, and may from time to time in the future acquire interests in or provide advice to businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. Apollo may also pursue acquisitions that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as Apollo continues to own a significant amount of our common stock, Apollo will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Texas insurance laws and regulations may delay or impede purchases of our common stock.The insurance laws and regulations of Texas, the jurisdiction in which our title insurance underwriter subsidiary is domiciled, generally provide that no person may acquire control, directly or indirectly, of a Texas domiciled insurer, unless the person has provided required information to, and the acquisition is approved or not disapproved by, the Texas Department of Insurance. Generally, any person acquiring beneficial ownership of 10% or more of our voting securities would be presumed to have acquired indirect control of our title insurance underwriter subsidiary unless the Texas Department of Insurance, upon application, determines otherwise. Apollo and Paulson & Co. Inc., on behalf of several investment funds and accounts managed by it (together with such investment funds and accounts, "Paulson") have previously received approvals for their current holdings from the Texas Department of Insurance. Certain purchasers of our common stock could be subject to similar approvals which could significantly delay or otherwise impede their ability to complete such purchase.We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock, so stockholders may not receive funds without selling their common stock.We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our common stock and anticipate that a significant amount of any free cash flow generated from our operations will be utilized to redeem or prepay outstanding indebtedness and accordingly would not be available for dividends. Any declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our Board of Directors deems relevant.Certain of our debt instruments contain covenants that restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. Furthermore, we will be permitted under the terms of our debt instrument to incur additional indebtedness, which may restrict or prevent us from paying dividends on our common stock. Agreements governing any future indebtedness, in addition to those governing our current indebtedness, may not permit us to pay dividends on our common stock.Future sales or the perception of future sales of a substantial amount of our common stock may depress the price of shares of our common stock, including in connection with the expiration of the lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our initial public offering. Future sales or the availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. A substantial portion of our common stock, including the shares held by Apollo and Paulson, may be sold into the public market upon the expiration of the lock-up agreements signed by Apollo, Paulson, our management and other significant stockholders. In addition, we may issue shares of our common stock or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. If any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our common 36Table of Contentsstock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial. We may also grant registration rights covering those shares of our common stock or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or sales of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares of our common stock issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock.Delaware law and our organizational documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could deprive our investors of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares.We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and the Apollo Securityholders Agreement may make it more difficult for, or prevent a third party from, acquiring control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. Among other things, these provisions:•classify our Board of Directors so that only some of our directors are elected each year;•do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;•delegate the sole power to a majority of the Board of Directors to fix the number of directors;•provide the power of our Board of Directors to fill any vacancy on our Board of Directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise;•authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders;•eliminate the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;•prohibit stockholders from acting by written consent if less than a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock is controlled by Apollo;•establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and•provide that the approval of a majority of the directors designated to the Board of Directors by Apollo will be required for certain change of control transactions until such time as Apollo no longer controls at least 25% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock.The foregoing factors, as well as the significant common stock ownership by funds affiliated with Apollo, could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential investor from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market value of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change-in-control premium.We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future, which could make it difficult for another company to acquire us or could otherwise adversely affect holders of our common stock, which could depress the price of our common stock.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue one or more series of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors will have the authority to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Our preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our common stock. The potential issuance of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control of us, discouraging bids for our common stock at a premium to the market price, and materially and adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock.