ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s common stock is subject to risks inherent in the Company’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. • Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of other real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer loan delinquencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to capital and to deposits or borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected most businesses and the prices of securities in general, and financial institutions in particular, and it will continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. As a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies have been aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. This increased government action may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We also may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the Deposit Insurance Fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. We do not believe these difficult conditions are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market and economic conditions on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our market. As a result, we may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. 11 • Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system or the economy. In response to adverse economic conditions, and instability in the financial markets and the U.S. banking system, Congress enacted the EESA in an attempt to restore confidence and stability to the banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Later, the ARRA was enacted to support the national economy and aid in economic recovery. The provisions of the EESA and ARRA are in addition to numerous other actions by the Federal Reserve, U.S. Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current decline in the national economy and liquidity and credit crisis that commenced in 2007. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system, support the national economy and aid in economic recovery. However, there is no assurance that the EESA, the ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives will be fully effective or have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. • The capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility. During the economic downturn, the capital and credit markets experienced extended volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If these levels of market disruption and volatility continue, worsen or abate and then arise at a later date, the Company’s ability to access capital could be materially impaired. The Company’s inability to access the capital markets could constrain the Bank’s ability to make new loans, to meet the Bank’s existing lending commitments and, ultimately jeopardize the Bank’s overall liquidity and capitalization. • Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a degree of risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • cash flow of the borrower and/or a business activity being financed; • in the case of a collateralized loan, changes in and uncertainties regarding future values of collateral; • the credit history of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • the duration of the loan. We use underwriting procedures and criteria that we believe minimize the risk of loan delinquencies and losses, but banks routinely incur losses in their loan portfolios. Regardless of the underwriting criteria we use, we will experience loan losses from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, and many of those losses will result from factors beyond our control. These factors include, among other things, changes in market, economic, business or personal conditions, or other events (including changes in market interest rates), that affect our borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans and the value of properties that collateralize loans. 12 As a result of recent difficulties in the national economy and housing market, declining real estate values, rising unemployment, and loss of consumer confidence, we and most other financial institutions have experienced increasing levels of non-performing loans, foreclosures and loan losses. We maintain an allowance for loan losses which we believe is appropriate to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of our allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of internal and external factors that affect loan collectibility, including, but not limited to: • an ongoing review of the quality, size and diversity of the loan portfolio; • evaluation of non-performing loans; • historical default and loss experience; • historical recovery experience; • existing economic conditions; • risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans. However, if delinquency levels continue to increase or we continue to incur higher than expected loan losses in the future, there is no assurance that our allowance will be adequate to cover resulting losses or that we will not have to make significant provisions to our allowance. • A large percentage of our loans are secured by real estate. Adverse conditions in the real estate market in our banking markets have adversely affected our loan portfolio. While we do not have a sub-prime lending program, a relatively large percentage of our loans are secured by real estate. Our management believes that, in the case of many of those loans, the real estate collateral is not being relied upon as the primary source of repayment, and the level of our real estate loans reflects, at least in part, our policy to take real estate whenever possible as primary or additional collateral rather than other types of collateral. However, adverse conditions in the real estate market and the economy in general have decreased real estate values in our banking markets. If the value of our collateral for a loan falls below the outstanding balance of that loan, our ability to collect the balance of the loan by selling the underlying real estate in the event of a default will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer a loss on the loan. An increase in our loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The FDIC recently adopted rules aimed at placing additional monitoring and management controls on financial institutions whose loan portfolios are deemed to have concentrations in commercial real estate (“CRE”). At December 31, 2009, our loan portfolio exceeded thresholds established by the FDIC for CRE concentrations and for additional regulatory scrutiny. Indications from regulators are that strict limitations on the amount or percentage of CRE within any given portfolio are not expected, but, rather, that additional reporting and analysis will be required to document management’s evaluation of the potential additional risks of such concentrations and the impact of any mitigating factors. It is possible that regulatory constraints associated with these rules could adversely affect our ability to grow loan assets and thereby limit our overall growth and expansion plans. These rules also could increase the costs of monitoring and managing this component of our loan portfolio. Either of these eventualities could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. • Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms which are acceptable to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as the current disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Among other sources of funds, we rely heavily on deposits, including out-of-market certificates of deposit, for funds to make loans and provide for our other liquidity needs. Those out-of-market deposits may not be as stable as other types of deposits and, in the future, depositors may not renew those time deposits when they mature, or we may have to pay a higher rate of interest to attract or keep them or to replace them with other deposits or with funds from other sources. Not being able to attract those deposits, or to keep or replace them as they mature, would adversely affect our liquidity. Paying higher deposit rates to attract, keep or replace those deposits could have a negative effect on our interest margin and operating results. 13 • We may need to raise additional capital in the future in order to continue to grow, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. Federal and state banking regulators require us to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, in the future we may need to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, recently a number of financial institutions have sought to raise considerable amounts of additional capital in response to a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from increases in their non-performing loans and loan losses, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. On December 31, 2009, our three capital ratios were above “well capitalized” levels under bank regulatory guidelines. However, growth in our earning assets resulting from internal expansion and new branch offices, at rates in excess of the rate at which our capital is increased through retained earnings, will reduce our capital ratios unless we continue to increase our capital. Also, future unexpected losses, whether resulting from loan losses or other causes, would reduce our capital. Should we need, or be required by regulatory authorities, to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. However, our ability to raise that additional capital will depend on conditions at that time in the capital markets, economic conditions, our financial performance and condition, and other factors, many of which are outside our control. There is no assurance that, if needed, we will be able to raise additional capital on terms favorable to us or at all. Our inability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our operations, and on our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. • If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock we have sold to the U.S. Treasury prior to January 16, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase from 5.0% per annum (approximately $385,000 annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $693,000 annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative affect on our liquidity and on our net income available to holders of our common stock. • Our profitability is subject to interest rate risk. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our profitability depends, to a large extent, on our net interest income, which is the difference between our income on interest-earning assets and our expense on interest-bearing deposits and other liabilities. In other words, to be profitable, we have to earn more interest on our loans and investments than we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Like most financial institutions, we are affected by changes in general interest rate levels and by other economic factors beyond our control. Interest rate risk arises in part from the mismatch (i.e., the interest sensitivity “gap”) between the dollar amounts of repricing or maturing interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and is measured in terms of the ratio of the interest rate sensitivity gap to total assets. When more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities will reprice or mature over a given time period, a bank is considered asset-sensitive and has a positive gap. When more liabilities than assets will reprice or mature over a given time period, a bank is considered liability-sensitive and has a negative gap. A liability-sensitive position (i.e., a negative gap) may generally enhance net interest income in a falling interest rate environment and reduce net interest income in a rising interest rate environment. An asset-sensitive position (i.e., a positive gap) may generally enhance net interest income in a rising interest rate environment and reduce net interest income in a falling interest rate environment. Our ability to manage our gap position determines to a great extent our ability to operate profitably. However, fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable, and recent economic and financial market conditions have made it extremely difficult to manage our gap position. Our profitability and results of operations will be adversely affected if we do not successfully manage our interest sensitivity gap. On December 31, 2009, we had a negative one-year cumulative interest sensitivity gap, which means that, during a one-year period, our interest-bearing liabilities generally would be expected to reprice at a faster rate than our interest-earning assets. A rising rate environment within that one-year period generally would have a negative effect on our earnings, while a falling rate environment generally would have a positive effect on our earnings. 14 • Our long-range business strategy includes the continuation of our growth plans, and our financial condition and operating results could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. Subject to market conditions and the economy, we intend to continue to grow in our existing banking markets (internally and through additional offices) and to expand into new markets as appropriate opportunities arise. We have opened five de novo branch offices since 2000. Consistent with our business strategy, and to sustain our growth, in the future we may establish other de novo branches or acquire other financial institutions or their branch offices. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches, and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for some period of time. Any new branches we open can be expected to negatively affect our operating results until those branches reach a size at which they become profitable. In establishing new branches in new markets, we compete against other banks with greater knowledge of those local markets and may need to hire and rely on local managers who have local affiliations and to whom we may need to give significant autonomy. If we grow but fail to manage our growth effectively, there could be material adverse effects on our business, future prospects, financial condition or operating results, and we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy. On the other hand, our operating results also could be materially affected in an adverse way if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated, or declines. Although we believe we have management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, we cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets, or that expansion will not adversely affect our operating results. • Our business depends on the condition of the local and regional economies where we operate. We currently have offices only in Guilford County, North Carolina. Consistent with our community banking philosophy, a majority of our customers are located in and do business in that region, and we lend a substantial portion of our capital and deposits to commercial and consumer borrowers in our local banking markets. Therefore, our local and regional economy has a direct impact on our ability to generate deposits to support loan growth, the demand for loans, the ability of borrowers to repay loans, the value of collateral securing our loans (particularly loans secured by real estate), and our ability to collect, liquidate and restructure problem loans. If our local communities are adversely affected by current conditions in the national economy or by other specific events or trends, there could be a direct adverse effect on our operating results. Adverse economic conditions in our banking markets could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us, and generally affect our financial condition and operating results. We are less able than larger institutions to spread risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. The economy of North Carolina’s Piedmont Triad region can be affected by adverse weather events. Our banking markets lie in one county, and we cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future weather events will affect our operations, our customers or the economies in our banking markets. However, weather events could cause a decline in loan originations, destruction or decline in the value of properties securing our loans, or an increase in the risks of delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. • New or changes in existing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could have an adverse effect on our strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a financial company’s shareholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations, and our compliance with regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of offices. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described under “Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations, control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. The laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. As a result of recent turmoil in the financial services industry, it is likely that there will be an increase in the regulation of all financial institutions. We cannot predict the effects of future changes on our business and profitability. 15 • Significant legal actions could subject us to substantial liabilities. We are from time to time subject to claims related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Among the laws that apply to us, the Patriot Act and Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended, require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the Treasury’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. Several banking institutions have recently received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. Although we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations. • Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. Our future growth and success will depend on, among other things, our ability to compete effectively with other financial services providers in our banking markets. To date, we have grown our business by focusing on our lines of business and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. However, commercial banking in our banking markets and in North Carolina as a whole is extremely competitive. We compete against commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as other local and community, super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions in attracting deposits and in making loans, and we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Our larger competitors have greater resources, broader geographic markets and name recognition, and higher lending limits than we do, and they can offer more products and services and better afford and more effectively use media advertising, support services and electronic technology than we can. Also, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. While we believe we compete effectively with other financial institutions, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be an effective competitor in our banking markets. • We rely on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of our revenue. We receive substantially all of our revenue as dividends from the Bank. As described under “Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation,” federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us. If the Bank becomes unable to pay dividends to us, then we may not be able to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock we have sold to the U.S. Treasury. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from the Bank could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of your investment in our common stock. • We depend on the services of our current management team. Our operating results and ability to adequately manage our growth and minimize loan losses are highly dependent on the services, managerial abilities and performance of our executive officers. Smaller banks, like us, sometimes find it more difficult to attract and retain experienced management personnel than larger banks. We currently have an experienced management team that our Board of Directors believes is capable of managing and growing the Bank. However, changes in or losses of key personnel of any company could disrupt that company’s business and could have an adverse effect on its business and operating results. 16 • The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell our common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. We cannot predict how or at what prices our common stock will trade in the future. The market value of our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors including the following, most of which are beyond our control, as well as the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating and financial results; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts; • actions of our current shareholders, including sales of common stock by existing shareholders and our directors and executive officers; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • regulatory developments; and • developments related to the financial services industry. The market value of and trading in our common stock also is affected by conditions (including price and trading fluctuations) affecting the financial markets in general, and in the market for the stocks of financial services companies in particular. These conditions may result in volatility in the market prices of stocks generally and, in turn, our common stock. Also, market conditions may result in sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market. In each case, market conditions could affect the market price of our stock in a way that is unrelated or disproportionate to changes in our operating performance. • The trading volume in our common stock has been low, and the sale of a substantial number of shares in the public market could depress the price of our stock and make it difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, but it has a relatively low average daily trading volume relative to many other stocks. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market, which can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded and limit an investor’s ability to quickly sell blocks of stock. We cannot predict what effect future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. • Our management beneficially owns a substantial percentage of our common stock, so our directors and executive officers can significantly affect voting results on matters voted on by our shareholders. Our current directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. Because of their voting rights, in matters put to a vote of our shareholders it could be difficult for any group of our other shareholders to defeat a proposal favored by our management (including the election of one or more of our directors) or to approve a proposal opposed by management. • The Securities Purchase Agreement between us and the U.S. Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The Securities Purchase Agreement between us and the U.S. Treasury provides that prior to the earlier of January 30, 2012, and the date on which all of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock held by the U.S. Treasury have been redeemed by us or transferred by Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of the U.S. Treasury: • increase the cash dividend on our common stock; or • subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock (other than the Series A Preferred Stock) or trust preferred securities. 17 In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the Warrant, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. We have not historically paid cash dividends on our common stock. • Our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock affects net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share, and the Warrant we issued to the U.S. Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on our Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Company. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the Warrant represent approximately 9.26% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 23, 2010 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant). Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. 18 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 19 