Item 1A. Risk Factors.You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report. The risk factors generally have been separated into three groups: (1) risks relating to our indebtedness; (2) risks relating to our business; and (3) risks relating to our separation from Cendant. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company. However, the risks and uncertainties are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below. In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Relating to our Indebtedness Our significant indebtedness, high interest obligations and negative cash flows could prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments and could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations, react to changes in the economy or our industry, or incur additional borrowings under our existing facilities. We are significantly encumbered by our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2011, after giving effect to the 2012 Senior Secured Notes Offering, our total debt, excluding our securitization obligations, would have been $7,361 million (without giving effect to outstanding letters of credit under our senior secured credit facility). In addition, as of December 31, 2011, our current liabilities included $327 million of securitization obligations which were collateralized by $366 million of securitization assets that are not available to pay our general obligations. At December 31, 2011, after giving effect to the 2012 Senior Secured Notes Offering, $2,052 million of our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and other bank indebtedness would have been at variable rates of interest thereby exposing us to interest rate risk. Our indebtedness was principally incurred to finance our acquisition by Apollo in April 2007 and reflected our then current earnings and our expectations that the housing downturn would recover in the near term. While our total debt has increased since the date of our acquisition in order to fund negative cash flows, the industry and economy have experienced significant declines that have negatively impacted our operating results. Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007, on a pro forma combined basis, have decreased by approximately 31%. As a result, we have been, and continue to be, challenged by our heavily leveraged capital structure. As a result of the 2012 Senior Secured Notes Offering, we expect that our annual cash interest will increase due to an increase in the interest rate on the First Lien Notes and the New First and a Half Lien Notes compared to certain indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility, which was repaid with the proceeds from the 2012 Senior Secured Notes Offering. After giving effect to the 2012 Senior Secured Notes Offering, we estimate that our annual cash interest would increase on a pro forma annualized basis by approximately $46 million from approximately $616 million to $662 million based on our pro forma debt balances as of December 31, 2011, assuming LIBOR rates as of December 31, 2011. There can be no assurance that we will be able to reduce the level of our leverage or debt in the future. Our substantial degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: •it causes a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of interest and required amortization on our indebtedness and not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities or principal repayment. Our significant level of interest payments are challenging in periods when seasonal cash flows in the residential real estate market are at their lowest points; •it could cause us to be unable to maintain compliance with the senior secured leverage ratio covenant under our senior secured credit facility; •it could cause us to be unable to meet our debt service requirements under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing the Unsecured Notes, the First Lien Notes and the First and a Half Lien Notes or meet our other financial obligations; •it may limit our ability to incur additional borrowings under our existing facilities or securitizations, to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, business development, debt service requirements, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes, or to refinance our indebtedness; •it exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates because a portion of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, are at variable rates of interest; •it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage 23Table of Contentscompared to our competitors that have less debt; •it may cause a further downgrade of our debt and long-term corporate ratings; •it may cause us to be more vulnerable to periods of negative or slow growth in the general economy or in our business, or may cause us to be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth; and •it may limit our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We have needed to incur additional debt in order to fund negative cash flow. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities and from drawings on our revolving credit facilities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the 12.375% Senior Subordinated Notes, the Extended Maturity Notes, the First Lien Notes and the First and a Half Lien Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or realize the related proceeds from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result: •our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; •the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and•we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.We will continue to evaluate potential financing transactions, including refinancing certain tranches of our indebtedness, issuing incremental debt, obtaining incremental letters of credit facilities and extending maturities as well as potential transactions pursuant to which third parties, Apollo or its affiliates may provide financing to us or otherwise engage in transactions to provide liquidity to us. There can be no assurance as to which, if any, of these alternatives we may pursue as the choice of any alternative will depend upon numerous factors such as market conditions, our financial performance and the limitations applicable to such transactions under our existing financing agreements and the consents we may need to obtain under the relevant documents. There also can be no assurance that financing or refinancing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Future indebtedness may impose various additional restrictions and covenants on us which could limit our ability to respond to market conditions, to make capital investments or to take advantage of business opportunities. Our ability to make payments to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, and strategic acquisitions will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. An event of default under our senior secured credit facility would adversely affect our operations and our ability to satisfy obligations under our indebtedness. The senior secured credit facility contains restrictive covenants, including a requirement that we maintain a specified senior secured leverage ratio, which is defined as the ratio of our total senior secured debt (net of unrestricted cash and permitted investments) to trailing four quarter Adjusted EBITDA. Our senior secured leverage ratio may not exceed 4.75 to 1.0. Total senior secured debt, for purposes of this ratio, does not include the First and a Half Lien Notes, the Second Lien Loans, other indebtedness secured by a lien on our assets pari passu or junior in priority to the liens securing the First and a Half Lien Notes (including indebtedness supported by letters of credit issued under our senior secured credit facility), our 24Table of Contentssecuritization obligations or the Unsecured Notes. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with the senior secured leverage ratio covenant with a ratio of 4.44 to 1.0. After giving effect to the 2012 Senior Secured Notes Offering, the senior secured leverage ratio on a pro forma basis would have been 3.87 to 1.0 at December 31, 2011. Based upon our financial forecast for 2012, we expect to remain in compliance with the senior secured leverage ratio covenant for at least the next 12 months. If a housing recovery is delayed further or is weak, we will be subject to additional pressure in maintaining compliance with our senior secured leverage ratio covenant. In future periods, if we are unable to renew or refinance bank indebtedness secured by letters of credit issued under the senior secured credit facility (which are not included in the calculation of the senior secured leverage ratio) and the letters of credit are drawn upon, the reimbursement obligations related to those letters of credit issued under the senior secured credit facility will be included in the calculation of the senior secured leverage ratio. A failure to maintain compliance with the senior secured leverage ratio covenant, or a breach of any of the other restrictive covenants, would result in a default under the senior secured credit facility. We have the right to cure an event of default of the senior secured leverage ratio in three of any four consecutive quarters through the issuance of additional Holdings equity for cash, which would be infused as capital into Realogy to increase Adjusted EBITDA for purposes of calculating the senior secured leverage ratio for the applicable twelve-month period and reduce net senior secured indebtedness upon actual receipt of such capital. If we are unable to maintain compliance with the senior secured leverage ratio covenant and we fail to remedy or avoid a default through an equity cure permitted thereunder, there would be an “event of default” under the senior secured credit facility. Other events of default include, without limitation, nonpayment of principal or interest, material misrepresentations, insolvency, bankruptcy, certain material judgments, change of control, and cross-events of default on material indebtedness as well as failure to obtain an unqualified audit opinion by 90 days after the end of any fiscal year. Upon the occurrence of any event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders: •will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us; •could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable; •could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or •could prevent us from making payments on the Unsecured Notes, the First Lien Notes or the First and a Half Lien Notes, any of which could result in an event of default under the indentures governing the First Lien Notes, the First and a Half Lien Notes and the Unsecured Notes or our Apple Ridge Funding LLC securitization program. If we were unable to repay the amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facility, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could proceed against the collateral granted to secure the senior secured credit facility and our other secured indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral to secure such indebtedness. If the lenders under our senior secured credit facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facility and our other indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Our total indebtedness will not be significantly reduced unless and until the Convertible Notes are converted into equity at the option of the holders thereof. In the future, we may need to seek new financing, or explore the possibility of amending the terms of our senior secured credit facility, and we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. If an event of default is continuing under our senior secured credit facility, the indentures governing the Unsecured Notes, the First Lien Notes, the First and a Half Lien Notes or our other material indebtedness, such event could cause a termination of our ability to obtain future advances under, and amortization of, our Apple Ridge Funding LLC securitization program. Restrictive covenants under our indentures and the senior secured credit facility may limit the manner in which we operate. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the Extended Maturity Notes, the 12.375% Senior Subordinated Notes, the First Lien Notes and the First and a Half Lien Notes contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, various covenants and conditions that limit our ability to, among other things: •incur or guarantee additional debt; 25Table of Contents•incur debt that is junior to senior indebtedness and senior to the Senior Subordinated Notes; •pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; •repurchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; •make loans, investments or acquisitions; •incur restrictions on the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other payments to us; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •create liens; •merge or consolidate with other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; •transfer or sell assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; and •prepay, redeem or repurchase the Unsecured Notes, the First Lien Notes, the First and a Half Lien Notes and debt that is junior in right of payment to the Unsecured Notes, the First Lien Notes and the First and a Half Lien Notes. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. At December 31, 2011, after giving effect to the 2012 Senior Secured Notes Offering, $2,052 million of our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and other bank indebtedness would have been at variable rates of interest thereby exposing us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. Although we have entered into interest rate swaps, involving the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments, to reduce interest rate volatility for a portion of our variable rate borrowings, such interest rate swaps do not eliminate interest rate volatility for all of our variable rate indebtedness at December 31, 2011. We are a holding company and are dependent on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. We are a holding company with limited direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests that we hold in our operating subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent on dividends and other distributions from those subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, including the payment of principal and interest on our outstanding debt. Our subsidiaries may not generate sufficient cash from operations to enable us to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. In addition, any payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law and monetary transfer restrictions in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate. In addition, payments to us by our subsidiaries will be contingent upon our subsidiaries’ earnings. Our subsidiaries are permitted under the terms of our indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the Unsecured Notes, the First Lien Notes and the First and a Half Lien Notes, to incur additional indebtedness that may restrict payments from those subsidiaries to us. We cannot assure you that agreements governing current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries will permit those subsidiaries to provide us with sufficient cash to fund our debt service payments. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and, except for our existing and future subsidiaries that are guarantors of our indebtedness, including the senior secured credit facility, the Unsecured Notes, the First Lien Notes and the First and a Half Lien Notes, have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay amounts due on our debt or to make funds available to us for such payment. Apollo is our controlling stockholder and Paulson may become a significant stockholder. There can be no assurance that Apollo and Paulson will act in our best interests as opposed to their own best interests. Because of its position as our controlling stockholder, to the extent not otherwise limited in the senior secured credit facility or our indentures, Apollo is able to exercise significant control over decisions affecting us, including: •our direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; •mergers or other business combinations and opportunities involving us; •further issuance of capital stock or other equity or debt securities by us; 26Table of Contents•payment of dividends; and •approval of our business plans and general business development. In addition, Paulson owns Convertible Notes that may be converted into 21.5% of the total outstanding shares of Common Stock on an as converted basis assuming that all Convertible Notes are converted into shares of Class A Common Stock (as defined below). Pursuant to a securityholders agreement we have entered into with Paulson (the "Paulson Securityholders Agreement"), Paulson also has the right to nominate a member of our board of directors or designate a non-voting observer to attend meetings of our board of directors and has certain other rights with respect to issuances of our equity and debt securities. Even if all of the outstanding Convertible Notes held by parties other than Apollo were converted into Class A Common Stock, which has one vote per share, Apollo, by virtue of its ownership of shares of Class B Common Stock (as defined below), which has five votes per share, would continue to control a majority of the voting power of the outstanding Common Stock. In addition, if all of the Convertible Notes were converted into Class A Common Stock, all of the Class B Common Stock would automatically convert into shares of Class A Common Stock and Apollo would then hold 66.2% of the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock. The concentration of ownership held by Apollo could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of us or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination that may be otherwise favorable to us. In addition, pursuant to Holdings’ Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Apollo has the right to, and will have no duty to abstain from, exercising such right to, conduct business with any business that is competitive or in the same line of business as us, do business with any of our clients, customers or vendors, or make investments in the kind of property in which we may make investments. Apollo is in the business of making or advising on investments in companies and may hold, and may from time to time in the future acquire, interests in or provide advice to businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. Apollo may also pursue acquisitions that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as Apollo continues to own a significant amount of the equity of Holdings, even if such amount is less than 50%, Apollo will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Because our equity securities are not registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and are not listed on any U.S. securities exchange, we are not subject to any of the corporate governance requirements of any U.S. securities exchanges. If we encounter financial difficulties, or we are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of our equity holders may conflict with those of the holders of indebtedness under the senior secured credit facility, the First Lien Notes, the First and a Half Lien Notes, the Unsecured Notes or any other holder of our debt and such equity holders have no obligation to provide any additional equity or any debt financing to us. In addition, none of the holders of our Convertible Notes are under any obligation to convert their Convertible Notes into equity. 27Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our Business The residential real estate market is cyclical and we are negatively impacted by downturns in this market. The residential real estate market tends to be cyclical and typically is affected by changes in general economic conditions which are beyond our control. The U.S. residential real estate market has recently shown some signs of stabilizing from a lengthy and deep downturn that began in the second half of 2005. However, we cannot predict when the market and related economic forces will return the U.S. residential real estate industry to a period of sustained growth. Any of the following could halt or limit a recovery in the housing market and have a material adverse effect on our business by causing a lack of sustained growth or a decline in the number of homesales and/or prices which, in turn, could adversely affect our revenues and profitability: •continued high unemployment; •a period of slow economic growth or recessionary conditions; •weak credit markets; •a low level of consumer confidence in the economy and/or the residential real estate market; •instability of financial institutions; •legislative, tax or regulatory changes that would adversely impact the residential real estate market, including but not limited to potential reform relating to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other government sponsored entities that provide liquidity to the U.S. housing and mortgage markets; •increasing mortgage rates and down payment requirements and/or reduced availability of mortgage financing, including but not limited to the potential impact of various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act or other legislation or regulation that may be enacted or promulgated to reform the U.S. housing finance market, including restrictions imposed on mortgage originators as well as retention levels required to be maintained by sponsors to securitize mortgages; •excessive or insufficient regional home inventory levels; •continuing high levels of foreclosure activity including but not limited to the release of homes for sale by financial institutions and the uncertainty surrounding the appropriateness of mortgage servicers foreclosure processes; •adverse changes in local or regional economic conditions; •the inability or unwillingness of homeowners to enter into homesale transactions due to negative equity in their existing homes; •a decrease in the affordability of homes; •our geographic and high-end market concentration relating in particular to our company-owned brokerage operations; •local, state and federal government regulation that burden residential real estate transactions or ownership; • shifts in populations away from the markets that we or our franchisees serve; •individual tax law changes, including potential limits on, or elimination of, the deductibility of certain mortgage interest expense, the application of the alternative minimum tax, real property taxes and employee relocation expenses; •decreasing home ownership rates, declining demand for real estate and changing social attitudes toward home ownership; •commission pressure from brokers who discount their commissions; and/or •acts of God, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters that disrupt local or regional real estate markets. Recently, banks and other lenders have come under investigations for alleged improper support for foreclosure actions. As a result, the foreclosure process in many areas has slowed and may face ongoing disruption. These foreclosure developments could reduce the level of homesales and could, once these homes reemerge on the market, add additional downward pressure on the price of existing homesales. A potential settlement of related litigation in 2012 could ease the disruption to foreclosures.28Table of ContentsOur success is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of the independent sales associates retained by company owned brokerage offices and by our franchisees. The ability of our company owned brokerage offices and our franchisees to retain independent sales associates is generally subject to numerous factors, including the compensation they receive and their perception of brand value. Given our high degree of leverage and negative perceptions in the media relating to our financial condition, neither our company owned brokerage offices or our independent franchisees may be successful in attracting or maintaining independent sales associates. If we or our franchisees fail to attract and retain independent sales associates, our business may be materially adversely affected. Seasonal fluctuations in the residential real estate brokerage and relocation businesses could adversely affect our business. The residential real estate brokerage business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, operating results and revenues for all of our businesses have been strongest in the second and third quarters of the calendar year. A significant portion of the expenses we incur in our real estate brokerage operations are related to marketing activities and commissions and are, therefore, variable. However, many of our other expenses, such as interest payments, facilities costs and certain personnel-related costs, are fixed and cannot be reduced during a seasonal slowdown. For example, interest payments of approximately $215 million are due on our Unsecured Notes and Second Lien Loans in October and April of each year. Accordingly, one of our significant interest payments falls in, or immediately following, the period of our lowest cash flow generation. Because of this asymmetry and the size of our cash interest obligations, if unfavorable conditions in the real estate market and general macroeconomic conditions do not significantly improve, we would be required to seek additional sources of working capital for our future liquidity needs, including obtaining additional financing from affiliated or non-affiliated debt holders and deferring or reducing spending. There can be no assurance that we would be able to defer or reduce expenses or that any such actions would not materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations, or that we could obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. A prolonged decline or lack of sustained growth in the number of homesales and/or prices would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Based upon data published by NAR, from 2005 to 2011, annual U.S. existing homesale units declined by 40% and the median homesale price declined by 24%. Our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007, on a pro forma combined basis, decreased approximately 31%. A further decline or lack of sustained growth in existing homesales, a continued decline in home prices or a decline in commission rates charged by brokers would further adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the royalties we receive from our franchisees and company owned brokerages, reducing the commissions our company owned brokerage operations earn, reducing the demand for our title and settlement services and reducing the referral fees earned by our relocation services business. For example, for 2011, a 100 basis point (or 1%) decline in either our homesale sides or the average selling price of closed homesale transactions, with all else being equal, would have decreased EBITDA by $11 million for our Real Estate Franchise Services and our Company Owned Real Estate Brokerage Services segments on a combined basis. Our company owned brokerage operations are subject to geographic and high-end real estate market risks, which could continue to adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our subsidiary, NRT, owns real estate brokerage offices located in and around large metropolitan areas in the U.S. Local and regional economic conditions in these locations could differ materially from prevailing conditions in other parts of the country. NRT has more offices and realizes more of its revenues in California, Florida and the New York metropolitan area than any other regions in the country. For the year ended December 31, 2011, NRT realized approximately 64% of its revenues from California (28%), the New York metropolitan area (25%) and Florida (11%). A further downturn in residential real estate demand or economic conditions in these regions could result in a further decline in NRT’s total gross commission income and profitability and have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, given the significant geographic overlap of our title and settlement services business with our company owned brokerage offices, such regional declines affecting our company owned brokerage operations could have an adverse effect on our title and settlement services business as well. A further downturn in residential real estate demand or economic conditions in these states could continue to result in a decline in our overall revenues and have a material adverse effect on us. NRT has a significant concentration of transactions at the higher end of the U.S. real estate market. A shift in NRT’s mix of property transactions from the high range to lower and middle range homes would adversely affect the average price of NRT’s closed homesales. 29Table of ContentsLoss or attrition among our senior management or other key employees could adversely affect our financial performance. Our success is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and other key employees. Our ability to retain our employees is generally subject to numerous factors, including the compensation and benefits we pay, the mix between the fixed and variable compensation we pay our employees and prevailing compensation rates. Given the lengthy and prolonged downturn in the real estate market and the cost-cutting measures we implemented during the downturn, certain of our employees have received, and may in the near term continue to receive, less incentive compensation. As such, we may suffer significant attrition among our current key employees. If we were to lose key employees and not promptly fill their positions with comparably qualified individuals, our business may be materially adversely affected. Tightened mortgage underwriting standards could continue to reduce homebuyers’ ability to access the credit market on reasonable terms. During the past several years, many lenders have significantly tightened their underwriting standards, and many subprime and other alternative mortgage products are no longer being made available in the marketplace. If these trends continue and mortgage loans continue to be difficult to obtain, including in the jumbo mortgage markets important to our higher value and luxury brands, the ability and willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases or to sell their existing homes will be adversely affected, which will adversely affect our operating results. Adverse developments in general business, economic and political conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations. Our business and operations and those of our franchisees are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the U.S. and worldwide. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, consumer confidence and the general condition of the U.S. and world economy. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the past five years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, including disruptions and delays occasioned by recent investigations into alleged improper foreclosure processes, and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These actions, which initially impacted mortgage-backed securities, spread to credit default swaps and other derivative securities and caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. Lack of available credit or lack of confidence in the financial sector could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A host of factors beyond our control could cause fluctuations in these conditions, including the political environment and acts or threats of war or terrorism. Adverse developments in these general business and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations. Recent U.S. governmental actions to assist in the stabilization and/or recovery of the residential real estate market may not be successful; reform of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae could have a material impact on our operations. The U.S. government implemented certain actions during the past several years to assist in a stabilization and/or a recovery of the residential real estate market. These measures have included: (1) the placement of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in conservatorship in September 2008 and the funding of billions of dollars to these entities to backstop shortfalls in their capital requirements; (2) the establishment, and subsequent expansion and extension, of a federal homebuyer tax credit for qualified buyers (that, as extended, required signed contracts on or before April 30, 2010); (3) as part of a broader plan to bring stability to credit markets and stimulate the housing market, the purchase of mortgage-backed securities by the Federal Reserve Board in an attempt to maintain low mortgage rates (the first phase of which ended on March 31, 2010); (4) the continuation of the 2008 higher loan limits for FHA, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae loans, most recently extended through 2013; (5) the availability of low-cost refinancing through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to certain homeowners negatively impacted by falling home prices, as well as encouraging lenders to modify loan terms with borrowers at risk of foreclosure or already in foreclosure; and (6) ongoing attempts to cause Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae and various banks implicated in foreclosure investigations to modify loans, including by the reduction of principal, when the home value has fallen below the amount of the loan. There can be no assurance that these actions or any other governmental action will continue to 30Table of Contentsstabilize the housing market or that any recovery in this market will be sustained as these programs either wind down or expire by their terms. Moreover, Congress has held hearings on the future of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae and other government sponsored entities or GSEs with a view towards further legislative reform. Legislation, if enacted, which curtails Freddie Mac and/or Fannie Mae’s activities and/or results in the wind down of these entities could increase mortgage costs and could result in more stringent underwriting guidelines imposed by lenders, either of which could materially adverse affect the housing market in general and our operations in particular. Given the current uncertainty with respect to the extent, if any, of such reform, it is difficult to predict either the long-term or short-term impact of government action that may be taken. The Dodd-Frank Act and other financial reform legislation may, among other things, result in new rules and regulations that may adversely affect the housing industry. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law for the express purpose of regulating the financial services industry and also establishes an independent federal bureau of consumer financial protection to enforce laws involving consumer financial products and services, including mortgage finance. The bureau is empowered with examination and enforcement authority. The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes new standards and practices for mortgage originators, including determining a prospective borrower’s ability to repay their mortgage, removing incentives for higher cost mortgages, prohibiting prepayment penalties for non-qualified mortgages, prohibiting mandatory arbitration clauses, requiring additional disclosures to potential borrowers and restricting the fees that mortgage originators may collect. These standards and practices include limitations, which are scheduled to become effective in 2013, on the amount that a mortgage originator may receive with respect to a "qualified mortgage," including fees received by affiliates of the mortgage originator. Based upon the current legislation and the definition of a qualified mortgage, such limitation could adversely affect the fees received by TRG, as provider of title and settlement services, in transactions originated by our joint venture, PHH Home Loans. While we are continuing to evaluate all aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act, such legislation and regulations promulgated pursuant to such legislation as well as other legislation that may be enacted to reform the U.S. housing finance market could materially and adversely affect the mortgage and housing industries, result in heightened federal regulation and oversight of the mortgage and housing industries, increase down payment requirements, increase mortgage costs, curtail affiliated business transactions and result in increased costs and potential litigation for housing market participants. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the operation and practices of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and require sponsors of securitizations to retain a portion of the economic interest in the credit risk associated with the assets securitized by them. Substantial reduction in, or the elimination of, GSE demand for mortgage loans could have a material adverse effect on the mortgage industry and the housing industry in general and these provisions may reduce the availability of mortgages to certain individuals. Monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies may have a material impact on our operations. Our business is significantly affected by the monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. The Federal Reserve Board’s policies affect the real estate market through their effect on interest rates as well as the pricing on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. We are affected by any rising interest rate environment. Changes in the Federal Reserve Board’s policies, the interest rate environment and mortgage market are beyond our control, are difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, the possibility of the elimination of the mortgage interest deduction could have an adverse effect on the housing market by reducing incentives for buying or refinancing homes and negatively affecting property values. Competition in the residential real estate and relocation business is intense and may adversely affect our financial performance. Competition in the residential real estate services business is intense. As a real estate brokerage franchisor, our products are our brand names and the support services we provide to our franchisees. Upon the expiration of a franchise agreement, a franchisee may choose to franchise with one of our competitors or operate as an independent broker. Competitors may offer franchisees whose franchise agreements are expiring similar products and services at rates that are lower than we charge. Our largest national competitors in this industry include Brookfield Residential Property Services, an affiliate of Brookfield Asset Management, Inc. (“Brookfield”), which in December 2011 acquired Prudential Real Estate and Relocation Services and also operates the brands, Real Living in the U.S. and Royal LePage in Canada; RE/MAX International, Inc.; and Keller 31Table of ContentsWilliams Realty, Inc. Some of these companies may have greater financial resources than we do, including greater marketing and technology budgets, and may be less leveraged. Regional and local franchisors provide additional competitive pressure in certain areas. To remain competitive in the sale of franchises and to retain our existing franchisees, we may have to reduce the fees we charge our franchisees to be competitive with those charged by competitors, which may accelerate if market conditions further deteriorate. Our company owned brokerage business, like that of our franchisees, is generally in intense competition. We compete with other national independent real estate organizations, including Home Services of America, franchisees of our brands and of other national real estate franchisors, franchisees of local and regional real estate franchisors, regional independent real estate organizations, discount brokerages, and smaller niche companies competing in local areas. Competition is particularly severe in the densely populated metropolitan areas in which we operate. In addition, the real estate brokerage industry has minimal barriers to entry for new participants, including participants pursuing non-traditional methods of marketing real estate, such as Internet-based brokerage or brokers who discount their commissions. Discount brokers have had varying degrees of success and while they have been negatively impacted by the prolonged downturn in the residential housing market, they may increase their market share in the future. Listing aggregators and other web-based real estate service providers may also begin to compete for part of the service revenue through referral or other fees. Real estate brokers compete for sales and marketing business primarily on the basis of services offered, reputation, utilization of technology, personal contacts and brokerage commission. As with our real estate franchise business, a decrease in the average brokerage commission rate may adversely affect our revenues. We also compete for the services of qualified licensed independent sales associates. Some of the firms competing for sales associates use a different model of compensating agents, in which agents are compensated for the revenue generated by other agents that they recruit to those firms. This business model may be appealing to certain agents and hinder our ability to attract and retain those agents. Competition for sales associates could reduce the commission amounts retained by our company after giving effect to the split with independent sales associates and possibly increase the amounts that we spend on marketing. Our average homesale commission rate per side in our Company Owned Real Estate Services segment has declined from 2.62% in 2002 to 2.50% in 2011. In our relocation services business, we compete primarily with global and regional outsourced relocation service providers. The larger outsourced relocation service providers that we compete with include: Brookfield Global Relocation Services, an affiliate of Brookfield (including the recently acquired operations of Prudential Real Estate and Relocation Services), SIRVA, Inc., and Weichert Relocation Resources, Inc. The title and settlement services business is highly competitive and fragmented. The number and size of competing companies vary in the different areas in which we conduct business. We compete with other title insurers, title agents and vendor management companies. The title and settlement services business competes with a large, fragmented group of smaller underwriters and agencies as well as national competitors. Several of our businesses are highly regulated and any failure to comply with such regulations or any changes in such regulations could adversely affect our business. Several of our businesses are highly regulated. The sale of franchises is regulated by various state laws as well as by the Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC"). The FTC requires that franchisors make extensive disclosure to prospective franchisees but does not require registration. A number of states require registration and/or disclosure in connection with franchise offers and sales. In addition, several states have “franchise relationship laws” or “business opportunity laws” that limit the ability of franchisors to terminate franchise agreements or to withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of these agreements. While we believe that our franchising operations are in compliance with such existing regulations, we cannot predict the effect any existing or future legislation or regulation may have on our business operation or financial condition. Our real estate brokerage business must comply with the requirements governing the licensing and conduct of real estate brokerage and brokerage-related businesses in the jurisdictions in which we do business. These laws and regulations contain general standards for and prohibitions on the conduct of real estate brokers and sales associates, including those relating to licensing of brokers and sales associates, fiduciary and agency duties, administration of trust funds, collection of commissions, advertising and consumer disclosures. Under state law, our real estate brokers have the duty to supervise and are responsible for the conduct of their brokerage business. Several of the litigation matters we are involved with allege claims based upon breaches of fiduciary duties by our licensed brokers, violations of state laws relating to business practices or consumer disclosures and with respect to compliance with wage and hour regulations. We cannot predict with certainty the cost of defense or the ultimate outcome of these or other litigation matters filed by or against us, including remedies or awards, and adverse results in any such 32Table of Contentslitigation, including treble damages, may harm our business and financial condition. Our company owned real estate brokerage business, our relocation business, our title and settlement service business and the businesses of our franchisees (excluding commercial brokerage transactions) must comply with RESPA. RESPA and comparable state statutes, among other things, restrict payments which real estate brokers, agents and other settlement service providers may receive for the referral of business to other settlement service providers in connection with the closing of real estate transactions. Such laws may to some extent restrict preferred vendor arrangements involving our franchisees and our company owned brokerage business. RESPA and similar state laws also require timely disclosure of certain relationships or financial interests that a broker has with providers of real estate settlement services. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, administration of RESPA has been moved from the Department of Housing and Urban Development ("HUD") to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB") and it is possible that the practice of HUD taking very expansive broad readings of RESPA will continue or accelerate at the CFPB creating increased regulatory risk. Our title insurance business also is subject to regulation by insurance and other regulatory authorities in each state in which we provide title insurance. State regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on our ability to take actions that we may want to take to enhance our operating results. There is a risk that we could be adversely affected by current laws, regulations or interpretations or that more restrictive laws, regulations or interpretations will be adopted in the future that could make compliance more difficult or expensive. There is also a risk that a change in current laws could adversely affect our business. For example, the “Bush tax cuts,” which have reduced ordinary income and capital gains rates on federal taxes, were recently extended until the end of 2012, after which these tax cuts are due to expire. There can be no assurance that these tax cuts will be extended or if extended, the extension may apply only to a portion of the tax cuts and/or the extension could be limited in duration. Other potential federal tax legislation includes the elimination or narrowing of mortgage tax deductions. Higher federal income tax rates or further limits on mortgage tax deductions could negatively impact the purchase and sale of residential homes. We cannot assure you that future legislative or regulatory changes will not adversely affect our business operations. In addition, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. Accordingly, such regulatory authorities could prevent or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us if our financial condition or our practices were found not to comply with the then current regulatory or licensing requirements or any interpretation of such requirements by the regulatory authority. Our failure to comply with any of these requirements or interpretations could limit our ability to renew current franchisees or sign new franchisees or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are also, to a lesser extent, subject to various other rules and regulations such as: •the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act which governs the disclosure and safeguarding of consumer financial information; •various state and federal privacy laws; •the USA PATRIOT Act; •restrictions on transactions with persons on the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons list promulgated by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury; •federal and state “Do Not Call,” “Do Not Fax,” and “Do Not E-Mail” laws; •“controlled business” statutes, which impose limitations on affiliations between providers of title and settlement services, on the one hand, and real estate brokers, mortgage lenders and other real estate providers, on the other hand, or similar laws or regulations that would limit or restrict transactions among affiliates in a manner that would limit or restrict collaboration among our businesses; •the Affiliated Marketing Rule, which prohibits or restricts the sharing of certain consumer credit information among affiliated companies without notice and/or consent of the consumer; •the Fair Housing Act; •laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.K. Bribery Act, that can impose significant sanctions on improper payments; •laws and regulations in jurisdictions outside the United States in which we do business; •state and federal employment laws and regulations, including any changes that would require classification of independent contractors to employee status, and wage and hour regulations; and •increases in state, local or federal taxes that could diminish profitability or liquidity. 33Table of ContentsOur failure to comply with any of the foregoing laws and regulations may subject us to fines, penalties, injunctions and/or potential criminal violations. Any changes to these laws or regulations or any new laws or regulations may make it more difficult for us to operate our business and may have a material adverse effect on our operations. Changes in accounting standards, subjective assumptions and estimates used by management related to complex accounting matters could have an adverse effect on results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidance and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters, such as stock-based compensation, asset impairments, valuation reserves, income taxes and fair value accounting, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments made by management. Changes in these rules or their interpretations or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments made by management could significantly change our reported results. We may not have the ability to complete future acquisitions; we may not be successful in developing the Better Homes and Gardens Real Estate brand. We have pursued an active acquisition strategy as a means of strengthening our businesses and have sought to integrate acquisitions into our operations to achieve economies of scale. Our company owned brokerage business has completed over 350 acquisitions since its formation in 1997 and, in 2004, we acquired the Sotheby’s International Realty® residential brokerage business and entered into an exclusive license agreement for the rights to the Sotheby’s International Realty® trademarks with which we are in the process of building the Sotheby’s International Realty® franchise system. In January 2006, we acquired our title insurance underwriter and certain title agencies. As a result of these and other acquisitions, we have derived a substantial portion of our growth in revenues and net income from acquired businesses. The success of our future acquisition strategy will continue to depend upon our ability to fund such acquisitions given our total outstanding indebtedness, find suitable acquisition candidates on favorable terms and to finance and complete these transactions. In October 2007, we entered into a long-term agreement to license the Better Homes and Gardens® Real Estate brand from Meredith. We seek to build a new international residential real estate franchise company using the Better Homes and Gardens® Real Estate brand name. The licensing agreement between us and Meredith became operational on July 1, 2008 and is for a 50-year term, with a renewal term for another 50 years at our option. We may not be able to successfully develop the brand in a timely manner given the housing downturn and limitations in developing the brand in certain countries, or at all. Our inability to complete acquisitions or to successfully develop the Better Homes and Gardens® Real Estate brand would have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy. We may not realize anticipated benefits from future acquisitions. Integrating acquired companies involves complex operational and personnel-related challenges. Future acquisitions may present similar challenges and difficulties, including: •the possible defection of a significant number of employees and independent sales associates; •increased amortization of intangibles; •the disruption of our respective ongoing businesses; •possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies; •failure to maintain important business relationships and contracts; •unanticipated costs of terminating or relocating facilities and operations; •unanticipated expenses related to integration; and •potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. A prolonged diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of any business that we have acquired or may acquire in the future could prevent us from realizing the anticipated cost savings and revenue growth from our acquisitions. We may be unable to maintain anticipated cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring activities. We have achieved cost savings from various restructuring initiatives targeted at reducing costs and enhancing organizational effectiveness while consolidating existing processes and facilities and will continue to identify additional cost savings. We may not be able to achieve or maintain the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these restructuring 34Table of Contentsinitiatives that are described elsewhere in this Annual Report. If our cost savings or the benefits are less than our estimates or take longer to implement than we project, the savings or other benefits we projected may not be fully realized. Our financial results are affected by the operating results of franchisees. Our real estate franchise services segment receives revenue in the form of royalties, which are based on a percentage of gross commission income earned by our franchisees. Accordingly, the financial results of our real estate franchise services segment are dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. If industry trends or economic conditions remain weak or worsen for franchisees, their financial results may worsen and our royalty revenues may decline. Gross closed commission income of our new franchisees may never materialize and accordingly we may not receive any material royalty revenues from new franchisees. In addition, we may have to increase our bad debt and note reserves. We may also have to terminate franchisees more frequently due to non-reporting and non-payment. Further, if franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements, or if we decide to restructure franchise agreements in order to induce franchisees to renew these agreements, then our royalty revenues may decrease. Our franchisees and independent sales associates could take actions that could harm our business. Our franchisees are independent business operators and the sales associates that work with our company owned brokerage operations are independent contractors, and, as such, neither are our employees, and we do not exercise control over their day-to-day operations. Our franchisees may not successfully operate a real estate brokerage business in a manner consistent with industry standards, or may not hire and train qualified independent sales associates or employees. If our franchisees and independent sales associates were to provide diminished quality of service to customers, our image and reputation may suffer materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Improper actions by our franchisees may also lead to direct claims against us based on theories of vicarious liability.Additionally, franchisees and independent sales associates may engage or be accused of engaging in unlawful or tortious acts such as, for example, violating the anti-discrimination requirements of the Fair Housing Act. Such acts or the accusation of such acts could harm our and our brands’ image, reputation and goodwill. Franchisees, as independent business operators, may from time to time disagree with us and our strategies regarding the business or our interpretation of our respective rights and obligations under the franchise agreement. This may lead to disputes with our franchisees and we expect such disputes to occur from time to time in the future as we continue to offer franchises. To the extent we have such disputes, the attention of our management and our franchisees will be diverted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Clients of our relocation business may terminate their contracts at any time. Substantially all of our contracts with our relocation clients are terminable at any time at the option of the client. If a client terminates its contract, we will only be compensated for all services performed up to the time of termination and reimbursed for all expenses incurred up to the time of termination. If a significant number of our relocation clients terminate their contracts with us, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our marketing arrangement with PHH Home Loans may limit our ability to work with other key lenders to grow our business. Under our Strategic Relationship Agreement relating to PHH Home Loans, we are required to recommend PHH Home Loans as originator of mortgage loans to the independent sales associates, customers and employees of our company owned and operated brokerage offices. This provision may limit our ability to enter into beneficial business relationships with other lenders and mortgage brokers. We do not control the joint venture PHH Home Loans and PHH as the managing partner of that venture may make decisions that are contrary to our best interests. Under our Operating Agreement with PHH relating to PHH Home Loans, we own a 49.9% equity interest but do not have control of the operations of the joint venture. Rather, our joint venture partner, PHH, is the managing partner of the venture and may make decisions with respect to the operation of the venture, which may be contrary to our best interests and may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our joint venture may be materially adversely impacted by changes affecting the mortgage industry, including but not limited to regulatory changes, increases in mortgage interest rates and decreases in operating margins. 35Table of ContentsIn the event of a termination of our joint venture PHH Home Loans, our earnings derived from the business that had been conducted by the joint venture and the related marketing fees that we earned from PHH could be materially adversely affected. Either party has the right to terminate the joint venture upon the occurrence of certain events, such as a material breach by the other party of any representation, warranty, covenant or other agreement contained in the Operating Agreement, Strategic Relationship Agreement or certain other related agreements that is not cured following any applicable notice or cure period, or the insolvency of the other party. In addition, we may terminate the joint venture at our election at any time after January 31, 2015 by providing two years’ prior notice to PHH, and PHH may terminate the venture at its election effective January 31, 2030 by notice delivered no earlier than three years, but not later than two years, before such date. Upon any termination of the joint venture by us, we may require that PHH purchases our interest or sells its interest to a buyer designated by us. Upon any termination of the joint venture by PHH, PHH will be entitled to purchase our interest. In each case, the purchase price would be the fair market value of the interest sold.If the joint venture is terminated, we may not be able to replace PHH with a new joint venture partner on terms comparable to us as those contained in the existing agreements governing the joint venture and, even if successful in finding a replacement partner, may incur expenses or loss of mortgage related earnings during any such transition. We may also decide not to continue to engage in the loan origination business conducted by the joint venture. In the event of a termination of the joint venture, our earnings derived from the business that had been conducted by the joint venture and the related marketing fees that we earned from PHH could be materially adversely affected. We may experience significant claims relating to our operations and losses resulting from fraud, defalcation or misconduct. We issue title insurance policies which provide coverage for real property to mortgage lenders and buyers of real property. When acting as a title agent issuing a policy on behalf of an underwriter, our insurance risk is typically limited to the first $5,000 of claims on any one policy, though our insurance risk is not limited if we are negligent. The title underwriter which we acquired in January 2006 typically underwrites title insurance policies of up to $1.5 million. For policies in excess of $1.5 million, we typically obtain a reinsurance policy from a national underwriter to reinsure the excess amount. To date, our title underwriter has experienced claims losses that are significantly below the industry average; our claims experience could increase in the future, which could negatively impact the profitability of that business. We may also be subject to legal claims arising from the handling of escrow transactions and closings. Our subsidiary, NRT, carries errors and omissions insurance for errors made during the real estate settlement process of $15 million in the aggregate, subject to a deductible of $1 million per occurrence. In addition, we carry an additional errors and omissions insurance policy for Realogy and its subsidiaries for errors made for real estate related services up to $35 million in the aggregate, subject to a deductible of $2.5 million per occurrence. This policy also provides excess coverage to NRT creating an aggregate limit of $50 million, subject to the NRT deductible of $1 million per occurrence. The occurrence of a significant title or escrow claim in excess of our insurance coverage in any given period could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations during the period. Fraud, defalcation and misconduct by employees are also risks inherent in our business. We carry insurance covering the loss or theft of funds of up to $30 million annually in the aggregate, subject to a deductible of $1 million per occurrence. To the extent that any loss or theft of funds substantially exceeds our insurance coverage, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we rely on the collection and use of personally identifiable information from customers to conduct our business. We disclose our information collection and dissemination practices in a published privacy statement on our websites, which we may modify from time to time. We may be subject to legal claims, government action and damage to our reputation if we act or are perceived to be acting inconsistently with the terms of our privacy statement, customer expectations or the law. Further, we may be subject to claims to the extent individual employees or independent contractors breach or fail to adhere to company policies and practices and such actions jeopardize any personally identifiable information. In addition, concern among potential home buyers or sellers about our privacy practices could keep them from using our services or require us to incur significant expense to alter our business practices or educate them about how we use personally identifiable information. We could be subject to significant losses if banks do not honor our escrow and trust deposits. Our company owned brokerage business and our title and settlement services business act as escrow agents for numerous customers. As an escrow agent, we receive money from customers to hold until certain conditions are satisfied. 36Table of ContentsUpon the satisfaction of those conditions, we release the money to the appropriate party. We deposit this money with various banks and while these deposits are not assets of the Company (and therefore excluded from our consolidated balance sheet), we remain contingently liable for the disposition of these deposits. The banks may hold a significant amount of these deposits in excess of the federal deposit insurance limit. If any of our depository banks were to become unable to honor our deposits, customers could seek to hold us responsible for these deposits and, if the customers prevailed in their claims, we could be subject to significant losses. These escrow and trust deposits totaled $272 million at December 31, 2011. Title insurance regulations limit the ability of our insurance underwriter to pay cash dividends to us. Our title insurance underwriter is subject to regulations that limit its ability to pay dividends or make loans or advances to us, principally to protect policy holders. Generally, these regulations limit the total amount of dividends and distributions to a certain percentage of the insurance subsidiary’s surplus, or 100% of statutory operating income for the previous calendar year. These restrictions could limit our ability to receive dividends from our insurance underwriter, make acquisitions or otherwise grow our business. We may be unable to continue to securitize certain of our relocation assets, which may adversely impact our liquidity. At December 31, 2011, $327 million of securitization obligations were outstanding through special purpose entities monetizing certain assets of our relocation services business under two lending facilities. We have provided a performance guaranty which guarantees the obligations of our Cartus subsidiary and its subsidiaries, as originator and servicer under the Apple Ridge securitization program. The securitization markets have experienced significant disruptions which may have the effect of increasing our cost of funding or reducing our access to these markets in the future. If we are unable to continue to securitize these assets, we may be required to find additional sources of funding which may be on less favorable terms or may not be available at all. The occurrence of any trigger events under our Apple Ridge securitization facility could cause us to lose funding under that facility and therefore restrict our ability to fund the operation of our U.S. relocation business. The Apple Ridge securitization facility, which we use to advance funds on behalf of certain clients of our relocation business in order to facilitate the relocation of their employees, contains terms which if triggered may result in a termination or limitation of new or existing funding under the facility and/or may result in a requirement that all collections on the assets be used to pay down the amounts outstanding under such facility. The triggering events include but are not limited to: those tied to the age and quality of the underlying assets; a change of control; a breach of our senior secured leverage ratio covenant under our senior secured credit facility if uncured; and the acceleration of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility, unsecured or secured notes or other material indebtedness. The occurrence of a trigger event under the Apple Ridge securitization facility could restrict our ability to access new or existing funding under this facility or result in termination of the facility, either of which would adversely affect the operation of our relocation business. We are highly dependent on the availability of the asset-backed securities market to finance the operations of our relocation business, and disruptions in this market or any adverse change or delay in our ability to access the market could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Our Apple Ridge securitization facility, as recently amended in December 2011, matures in December 2013. We could encounter difficulties in renewing this facility and if this source of funding is not available to us for any reason, we could be required to borrow under the revolving credit facility or incur other indebtedness to finance our working capital needs, and there can be no assurance in this regard, or we could require our clients to fund the home purchases themselves, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business and financial objectives. Our international operations are subject to risks not generally experienced by our U.S. operations. Our relocation services business operates worldwide, and to a lesser extent, our real estate franchise services segment has international operations. For the year ended December 31, 2011, revenues from these operations were approximately 3% of total revenues. Our international operations are subject to risks not generally experienced by our U.S. operations. The risks involved in our international operations that could result in losses against which we are not insured and therefore affect our profitability include: •fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; •exposure to local economic conditions and local laws and regulations, including those relating to our employees; •economic and/or credit conditions abroad; 37Table of Contents•potential adverse changes in the political stability of foreign countries or in their diplomatic relations with the U.S.; •restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings; •government policies against businesses owned by foreigners; •investment restrictions or requirements; •diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights in foreign countries; •difficulties in registering, protecting or preserving trade names and trademarks in foreign countries; •restrictions on the ability to obtain or retain licenses required for operation; •foreign exchange restrictions; •withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; and •changes in foreign taxation structures. We are subject to certain risks related to litigation filed by or against us, and adverse results may harm our business and financial condition. We cannot predict with certainty the cost of defense, the cost of prosecution, insurance coverage or the ultimate outcome of litigation and other proceedings filed by or against us, including remedies or damage awards, and adverse results in such litigation and other proceedings may harm our business and financial condition. Such litigation and other proceedings may include, but are not limited to, actions relating to intellectual property, commercial arrangements, franchising arrangements, actions against our title company alleging it knew or should have known that others were committing mortgage fraud, standard brokerage disputes like the failure to disclose hidden defects in the property such as mold, vicarious liability based upon conduct of individuals or entities outside of our control, including franchisees and independent sales associates, antitrust claims, general fraud claims, employment law, including claims challenging the classification of our sales associates as independent contractors, and claims alleging violations of RESPA or state consumer fraud statutes. In the case of intellectual property litigation and proceedings, adverse outcomes could include the cancellation, invalidation or other loss of material intellectual property rights used in our business and injunctions prohibiting our use of business processes or technology that is subject to third party patents or other third party intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) and pay royalties. In 2002, Frank K. Cooper Real Estate #1, Inc. filed a putative class action against Cendant and Cendant’s subsidiary, Century 21 Real Estate Corporation. The complaint alleges breach of certain provisions of the Real Estate Franchise Agreement entered into between Century 21 and the plaintiffs, breach of the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing, violation of the New Jersey Consumer Fraud Act and breach of certain express and implied fiduciary duties. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Cendant diverted money and resources from Century 21 franchisees and allotted them to NRT owned brokerages and otherwise improperly charged expenses to marketing funds. The New Jersey Consumer Fraud Act, if applicable, provides for treble damages, attorney’s fees and costs as remedies for violation of the Act. On August 17, 2010, the court granted plaintiffs’ renewed motion to certify a class. The certified class includes Century 21 franchisees at any time between August 1, 1995 and April 17, 2002 whose franchise agreements contain New Jersey choice of law and venue provisions and who have not executed releases releasing the claim (unless the release was a provision of a franchise renewal agreement). A case management order entered on November 29, 2010 established, among other things, a trial date of April 16, 2012. All expert reports have been produced and expert depositions have commenced. As of January 24, 2012, Realogy entered into a memorandum of understanding memorializing the principal terms of a proposed settlement of this action. The structure of the proposed settlement involves both monetary and non-monetary consideration as well as contributions from insurance carriers. The non-monetary consideration includes but is not limited to waivers and modifications of certain fees and payments of incentive fees. On February 16, 2012, the parties executed a Stipulation of Settlement finalizing the terms of the settlement reflected in the memorandum of understanding. The Stipulation of Settlement and related settlement documents were submitted to the Court on February 17th by the plaintiffs to obtain preliminary approval. The court granted preliminary approval on February 22nd. Notice of the settlement will go to the class in the next 30 days. A fairness hearing will be held on June 4, 2012 when the court will determine whether to grant final approval of the settlement. Realogy has reserved for funding that would be required beyond carrier contributions and that amount is reflected in our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2011.This class action involves substantial, complex litigation. Class action litigation is inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties. If the proposed settlement is not finalized and approved by the court, the resolution of this 38Table of Contentslitigation could result in substantial losses and there can be no assurance that such resolution will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Two key RESPA issues currently being litigated in various courts by other industry participants and us are (1) whether RESPA's prohibition of unearned fees applies to all fees or only split fees and (2) whether RESPA impinges on the ability of a real estate broker to charge a two-part fee with fixed and variable components. These issues directly impact the fee structures of franchisees and our Company owned brokerage business in those states where fees frequently include both fixed and variable commission charges. In 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear Freeman vs. Quicken Loans, Inc., where the issue presented is whether RESPA applies to a fee that is not split or shared with a third party. Oral argument in that case was heard on February 21, 2012. A decision in the Quicken Loans case or in other pending cases that interpret RESPA broadly could significantly increase the volume of RESPA litigation and could adversely impact us and our franchisees.We are reliant upon information technology to operate our business and maintain our competitiveness, and any disruption or reduction in our information technology capabilities could harm our business. Our business depends upon the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems, including technology and systems utilized for communications, records of transactions, procurement, call center operations and administrative systems. The operation of these technologies and systems is dependent upon third party technologies, systems and services, for which there are no assurances of continued or uninterrupted availability and support by the applicable third party vendors on commercially reasonable terms. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to effectively operate and maintain our information technologies and systems. In addition, our information technologies and systems are expected to require refinements and enhancements on an ongoing basis, and we expect that advanced new technologies and systems will continue to be introduced. We may not be able to obtain such new technologies and systems, or to replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as our competitors or in a cost-effective manner. Also, we may not achieve the benefits anticipated or required from any new technology or system, and we may not be able to devote financial resources to new technologies and systems in the future. In addition, our information technologies and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from various causes, including (1) natural disasters, war and acts of terrorism, (2) power losses, computer systems failure, Internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator error, losses and corruption of data, and similar events and (3) computer viruses, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information and other physical or electronic breaches of security. We maintain certain disaster recovery capabilities for critical functions in most of our businesses, including certain disaster recovery services from International Business Machines Corporation. However, these capabilities may not successfully prevent a disruption to or material adverse effect on our businesses or operations in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. Any extended interruption in our technologies or systems could significantly curtail our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue. Additionally, our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. We do not own two of our brands and must manage cooperative relationships with both owners. The Sotheby’s International Realty® and Better Homes and Gardens® real estate brands are owned by the companies that founded these brands. We are the exclusive party licensed to run brokerage services in residential real estate under those brands, whether through our franchisees or our company owned operations. Our future operations and performance with respect to these brands requires the continued cooperation from the owners of those brands. In particular, Sotheby’s has the right to approve the master franchisors of, and the material terms of our master franchise agreements governing our relationships with, our Sotheby’s franchisees located outside the U.S., which approval cannot be unreasonably withheld or delayed. If Sotheby’s unreasonably withholds or delays its approval for new international master franchisors, our relationship with them could be disrupted. Any significant disruption of the relationships with the owners of these brands could impede our franchising of those brands and have a material adverse effect on our operations and performance. The weakening or unavailability of our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our business. Our trademarks, trade names, domain names, trade dress and other intellectual property rights are fundamental to our brands and our franchising business. The steps we take to obtain, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate and, in particular, we may not own all necessary registrations for our intellectual property. Applications we have filed to register our intellectual property may not be approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities. Our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. We may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property rights without our authorization or 39Table of Contentsindependently developing technology that is similar to ours. Also third parties may own rights in similar trademarks. Any unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties could reduce any competitive advantage we have developed or otherwise harm our business and brands. If we had to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be costly, and we may not prevail. Our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks, may fail to provide us with significant competitive advantages in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions that do not have or do not enforce strong intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that our intellectual property does not and will not infringe issued intellectual property rights of others. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation. Depending on the success of these proceedings, we may be required to enter into licensing or consent agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all), or to pay damages or cease using certain service marks or trademarks. We franchise our brands to franchisees. While we try to ensure that the quality of our brands is maintained by all of our franchisees, we cannot assure that these franchisees will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property or our reputation. Our license agreement with Sotheby’s for the use of the Sotheby’s International Realty® brand is terminable by Sotheby’s prior to the end of the license term if certain conditions occur, including but not limited to the following: (1) we attempt to assign any of our rights under the license agreement in any manner not permitted under the license agreement, (2) we become bankrupt or insolvent, (3) a court issues a non-appealable, final judgment that we have committed certain breaches of the license agreement and we fail to cure such breaches within 60 days of the issuance of such judgment, or (4) we discontinue the use of all of the trademarks licensed under the license agreement for a period of twelve consecutive months. Our license agreement with Meredith for the use of the Better Homes and Gardens® real estate brand is terminable by Meredith prior to the end of the license term if certain conditions occur, including but not limited to the following: (1) we attempt to assign any of our rights under the license agreement in any manner not permitted under the license agreement, (2) we become bankrupt or insolvent, or (3) a trial court issues a final judgment that we are in material breach of the license agreement or any representation or warranty we made was false or materially misleading when made. We may incur substantial and unexpected liabilities arising out of our pension plan. We have a defined benefit pension plan for which participation was frozen as of July 1, 1997, however, the plan is subject to minimum funding requirements. Although the Company to date has met its minimum funding requirements, the pension plan represents a liability on our balance sheet and will generate substantial cash requirements for us, which may increase beyond our expectations in future years based on changing market conditions. For example, as of the end of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, for financial reporting purposes, we estimated that required cash contributions will be between $8 million and $9 million each year for the next five years and approximately $48 million over the succeeding five years. In addition, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our pension plan and cause volatility in the future funding requirements of the plan. Our ability to use our NOLs and other tax attributes may be limited if we undergo an “ownership change.” Our ability to utilize our net operating losses (“NOLs”) and other tax attributes could be limited if we undergo an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50 percentage point increase in equity ownership by five-percent shareholders in any three-year period. Although we do not believe that we have undergone an ownership change within the last three years, it is possible that we will undergo an ownership change in the future and, as a result, our use of NOL carryforwards may be limited. 40Table of ContentsRisks Related to Realogy’s Separation from Cendant We are responsible for certain of Cendant’s contingent and other corporate liabilities. Under the Separation and Distribution Agreement dated July 27, 2006 (the “Separation and Distribution Agreement”) among Realogy, Cendant Corporation (“Cendant”), which changed its name to Avis Budget Group, Inc. (“Avis Budget”) in August 2006, Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (“Wyndham Worldwide”) and Travelport Inc. (“Travelport”), and other agreements, subject to certain exceptions contained in the Tax Sharing Agreement dated as of July 28, 2006, as amended (the "Tax Sharing Agreement"), among Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide and Travelport, Realogy and Wyndham Worldwide have each assumed and are generally responsible for 62.5% and 37.5%, respectively, of certain of Cendant’s contingent and other corporate liabilities not primarily related to the businesses of Travelport, Realogy, Wyndham Worldwide or Avis Budget Group. The due to former parent balance was $80 million at December 31, 2011 and represents Realogy’s accrual of its share of potential Cendant contingent and other corporate liabilities. If any party responsible for Cendant contingent and other corporate liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any such assumed obligations related to any such contingent and other corporate liability, each non-defaulting party (including Cendant) would be required to pay an equal portion of the amounts in default. Accordingly, Realogy may, under certain circumstances, be obligated to pay amounts in excess of its share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities, including associated costs and expenses. Adverse outcomes from the unresolved Cendant liabilities for which Realogy has assumed partial liability under the Separation and Distribution Agreement could be material with respect to our earnings or cash flows in any given reporting period. 41Table of Contents