D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information provided in this annual report and the Corporation’s other disclosure documents filed on www.sedar.com. 5 The Corporation will require significant additional financing and it may not have access to sufficient capital. The Corporation anticipates that it will need additional financing in the future to fund its ongoing research and development programs and for general corporate requirements. The Corporation may choose to seek additional funding through public or private offerings, corporate collaborations or partnership arrangements. The amount of financing required will depend on many factors including the financial requirements of the Corporation to fund its research and clinical trials, and the ability of the Corporation to secure partnerships and achieve partnership milestones as well as to fund other working capital requirements. The Corporation’s ability to access the capital markets or to enlist partners is mainly dependent on the progress of its research and development and regulatory approval of its products. There is no assurance that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The Corporation has a history of losses, and it has not generated any product revenue to date. It may never achieve or maintain profitability. Since inception, the Corporation has incurred significant losses each year and expects to incur significant operating losses as the Corporation continues product research and development and clinical trials. There is no assurance that the Corporation will ever successfully commercialize or achieve revenues from sales of its therapeutic products if they are successfully developed or that profitability will ever be achieved or maintained. Even if profitability is achieved, the Corporation may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. We are an early stage development company in an uncertain industry. The Corporation is at an early stage of development. Preclinical and clinical trial work must be completed before our products could be ready for use within the markets we have identified. We may fail to develop any products, to obtain regulatory approvals, to enter clinical trials or to commercialize any products. We do not know whether any of our potential product development efforts will prove to be effective, meet applicable regulatory standards, obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or be capable of being manufactured at a reasonable cost. If the Corporation’s products are approved for sale, there can be no assurance that the products will gain market acceptance among consumers, physicians, patients and others in the medical community. A failure to gain market acceptance may adversely affect the revenues of the Corporation. The Corporation is subject to a strict regulatory environment. None of the Corporation’s product candidates have received regulatory approval for commercial sale. Numerous statutes and regulations govern human testing and the manufacture and sale of human therapeutic products in Canada, the United States and other countries where the Corporation intends to market its products. Such legislation and regulation bears upon, among other things, the approval of protocols and human testing, the approval of manufacturing facilities, testing procedures and controlled research, review and approval of manufacturing, preclinical and clinical data prior to marketing approval including adherence to Good Manufacturing Practices (“GMP”) during production and storage as well as regulation of marketing activities including advertising and labelling. The completion of the clinical testing of our product candidates and the obtaining of required approvals are expected to take years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. There can be no assurance that clinical trials will be completed successfully within any specified period of time, if at all. Furthermore, clinical trials may be delayed or suspended at any time by the Corporation or by regulatory authorities if it is determined at any time that patients may be or are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, including the risk of death, or that compounds are not manufactured under acceptable GMP conditions or with acceptable quality. Any failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approvals would adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to utilize its technology thereby adversely affecting operations. No assurance can be given that the Corporation’s product candidates or lead compounds will prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials or that they will receive the requisite protocol approval or regulatory approval. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that current regulations relating to regulatory approval will not change or become more stringent. There are no assurances the Corporation can scale-up, formulate or manufacture any compound in sufficient quantities with acceptable specifications for the regulatory agencies to grant approval or not require additional changes or additional trials be performed. The agencies may also require additional trials be run in order to provide additional information regarding the safety, efficacy or equivalency of any compound for which the Corporation seeks regulatory approval. Similar restrictions are imposed in foreign markets other than the United States and Canada. Investors should be aware of the risks, problems, delays, expenses and difficulties which may be encountered by the Corporation in light of the extensive regulatory environment in which the Corporation’s business operates. 6 Even if a product candidate is approved by the FDA or any other regulatory authority, the Corporation may not obtain approval for an indication whose market is large enough to recoup its investment in that product candidate. The Corporation may never obtain the required regulatory approvals for any of its product candidates. The Corporation is faced with uncertainties related to its research. The Corporation’s research programs are based on scientific hypotheses and experimental approaches that may not lead to desired results. In addition, the timeframe for obtaining proof of principle and other results may be considerably longer than originally anticipated, or may not be possible given time, resource, financial, strategic and collaborator scientific constraints. Success in one stage of testing is not necessarily an indication that the particular program will succeed in later stages of testing and development. It is not possible to predict, based upon studies in in-vitro models and in animals, whether any of the compounds made for these programs will prove to be safe, effective, and suitable for human use. Each compound will require additional research and development, scale-up, formulation and extensive clinical testing in humans. Development of these compounds will require investigations into the mechanism of action of the molecules as these are not fully understood. Unsatisfactory results obtained from a particular study relating to a program may cause the Corporation to abandon its commitment to that program or to the lead compound or product candidate being tested. The discovery of unexpected toxicities, lack of sufficient efficacy, poor physiochemical properties, unacceptable ADME (absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion) and DMPK (drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics), pharmacology, inability to increase scale of manufacture, market attractiveness, regulatory hurdles, competition, as well as other factors, may make the Corporation’s targets, lead compounds or product candidates unattractive or unsuitable for human use, and the Corporation may abandon its commitment to that program, target, lead compound or product candidate. In addition, preliminary results seen in animal and/or limited human testing may not be substantiated in larger controlled clinical trials. If difficulties are encountered enrolling patients in the Corporation’s clinical trials, the Corporation’s trials could be delayed or otherwise adversely affected. Clinical trials for the Corporation’s product candidates require that the Corporation identify and enrol a large number of patients with the disorder under investigation. The Corporation may not be able to enrol a sufficient number of patients to complete its clinical trials in a timely manner. Patient enrolment is a function of many factors including, but not limited to, design of the study protocol, size of the patient population, eligibility criteria for the study, the perceived risks and benefits of the therapy under study, the patient referral practices of physicians and the availability of clinical trial sites. If the Corporation has difficulty enrolling a sufficient number of patients to conduct the Corporation’s clinical trials as planned, it may need to delay or terminate ongoing clinical trials. Even if regulatory approvals are obtained for the Corporation’s product candidates, the Corporation will be subject to ongoing government regulation. Even if regulatory authorities approve any of the Corporation’s human therapeutic product candidates, the manufacture, marketing and sale of such products will be subject to strict and ongoing regulation. Compliance with such regulation may be expensive and consume substantial financial and management resources. If the Corporation, or any future marketing collaborators or contract manufacturers, fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, it may be subject to sanctions including fines, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, total or partial suspension of production, civil penalties, withdrawal of regulatory approvals and criminal prosecution. Any of these sanctions could delay or prevent the promotion, marketing or sale of the Corporation’s products. 7 The Corporation may not achieve its projected development goals in the time frames announced and expected. The Corporation sets goals for and makes public statements regarding the timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to its success, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials, anticipated regulatory submission and approval dates and time of product launch. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays or failures in the Corporation’s clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process and delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements sufficient to commercialize its products. There can be no assurance that the Corporation’s clinical trials will be completed, that the Corporation will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned. If the Corporation fails to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, the price of the Common Shares would likely decline. If the Corporation fails to obtain acceptable prices or adequate reimbursement for its human therapeutic products, its ability to generate revenues will be diminished. The Corporation’s ability to successfully commercialize its human therapeutic products will depend significantly on its ability to obtain acceptable prices and the availability of reimbursement to the patient from third-party payers, such as government and private insurance plans. While the Corporation has not commenced discussions with any such parties, these third-party payers frequently require companies to provide predetermined discounts from list prices, and they are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceuticals and other medical products. The Corporation’s human therapeutic products may not be considered cost-effective, and reimbursement to the patient may not be available or sufficient to allow the Corporation to sell its products on a competitive basis. The Corporation may not be able to negotiate favourable reimbursement rates for its human therapeutic products. In addition, the continuing efforts of third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means may limit the Corporation’s commercial opportunity and reduce any associated revenue and profits. The Corporation expects proposals to implement similar government control to continue. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that the Corporation or any current or potential collaborators could receive for any of its human therapeutic products and could adversely affect its profitability. In addition, in Canada and in many other countries, pricing and/or profitability of some or all prescription pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals are subject to government control. If the Corporation fails to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement for its products, the sales of its products would be adversely affected or there may be no commercially viable market for its products. The Corporation may not obtain adequate protection for its products through its intellectual property. The Corporation’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to protect its competitive position through patents, trade secrets, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms, including the Corporation, are uncertain and involve complex questions of law and fact for which important legal issues remain unresolved. The patents issued or to be issued to the Corporation may not provide the Corporation with any competitive advantage. The Corporation’s patents may be challenged by third parties in patent litigation, which is becoming widespread in the biopharmaceutical industry. In addition, it is possible that third parties with products that are very similar to the Corporation’s will circumvent its patents by means of alternate designs or processes. The Corporation may have to rely on method of use protection for its compounds in development and any resulting products, which may not confer the same protection as compounds per se. The Corporation may be required to disclaim part of the term of certain patents. There may be prior applications of which the Corporation is not aware that may affect the validity or enforceability of a patent claim. There also may be prior applications which are not viewed by the Corporation as affecting the validity or enforceability of a claim, but which may, nonetheless ultimately be found to affect the validity or enforceability of a claim. No assurance can be given that the Corporation’s patents would, if challenged, be held by a court to be valid or enforceable or that a competitor’s technology or product would be found by a court to infringe the Corporation’s patents. Applications for patents and trademarks in Canada, the United States and in foreign markets have been filed and are being actively pursued by the Corporation. Pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents, and the Corporation may not develop additional proprietary products which are patentable. 8 Patent applications relating to or affecting the Corporation’s business have been filed by a number of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies and academic institutions. A number of the technologies in these applications or patents may conflict with the Corporation’s technologies, patents or patent applications, and such conflict could reduce the scope of patent protection which the Corporation could otherwise obtain. The Corporation could become involved in interference proceedings in the United States in connection with one or more of its patents or patent applications to determine priority of invention. The Corporation’s granted patents could also be challenged and revoked in opposition proceedings in certain countries outside the United States. In addition to patents, the Corporation relies on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect its intellectual property. The Corporation generally requires its employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with the Corporation is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case of the Corporation’s employees, the agreements provide that all of the technology which is conceived by the individual during the course of employment is the Corporation’s exclusive property. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of the Corporation’s proprietary information. In addition, it is possible that third parties could independently develop proprietary information and techniques substantially similar to those of the Corporation or otherwise gain access to the Corporation’s trade secrets. The Corporation currently has the right to use certain technology under license agreements with third parties. The Corporation’s failure to comply with the requirements of material license agreements could result in the termination of such agreements, which could cause the Corporation to terminate the related development program and cause a complete loss of its investment in that program. As a result of the foregoing factors, the Corporation may not be able to rely on its intellectual property to protect its products in the marketplace. The Corporation may infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The Corporation’s commercial success depends significantly on its ability to operate without infringing the patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. There could be issued patents of which the Corporation is not aware that its products infringe or patents, that the Corporation believes it does not infringe, but that it may ultimately be found to infringe. Moreover, patent applications are in some cases maintained in secrecy until patents are issued. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications were filed. Because patents can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which the Corporation is unaware that may later result in issued patents that its products infringe. The biopharmaceutical industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including the Corporation, which patents cover various types of products. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. The Corporation is aware of, and has reviewed, third party patents relating to the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease, diabetes, and other relevant indication areas. In the event of infringement or violation of another party’s patent, the Corporation may not be able to enter into licensing arrangements or make other arrangements at a reasonable cost. Any inability to secure licenses or alternative technology could result in delays in the introduction of the Corporation’s products or lead to prohibition of the manufacture or sale of the products. 9 Patent litigation is costly and time consuming and may subject the Corporation to liabilities. The Corporation’s involvement in any patent litigation, interference, opposition or other administrative proceedings will likely cause the Corporation to incur substantial expenses, and the efforts of its technical and management personnel will be significantly diverted. In addition, an adverse determination in litigation could subject the Corporation to significant liabilities. The Corporation operates in a fiercely competitive business environment. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. Competition comes from health care companies, pharmaceutical companies, large and small biotech companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies, universities, government agencies and other public and private companies. Research and development by others may render the Corporation’s technology or products non-competitive or obsolete or may result in the production of treatments or cures superior to any therapy the Corporation is developing or will develop. In addition, failure, unacceptable toxicity, lack of sales or disappointing sales or other issues regarding competitors’ products or processes could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s product candidates, including its clinical candidates or its lead compounds. The market price of the Corporation’s Common Shares may experience a high level of volatility due to factors such as the volatility in the market for biotechnology stocks generally, and the short-term effect of a number of possible events. The Corporation is a public growth company in the biotechnology sector. As frequently occurs among these companies, the market price for the Corporation’s Common Shares may experience a high level of volatility. Numerous factors, including many over which the Corporation has no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of Common Shares including, among other things, (i) clinical and regulatory developments regarding the Corporation’s products and product candidates and those of its competitors, (ii) arrangements or strategic partnerships by the Corporation, (iii) other announcements by the Corporation or its competitors regarding technological, product development, sales or other matters, (iv) patent or other intellectual property achievements or adverse developments, (v) arrivals or departures of key personnel; (vi) government regulatory action affecting the Corporation’s product candidates in the United States, Canada and foreign countries, (vii) actual or anticipated fluctuations in the Corporation’s revenues or expenses, (viii) general market conditions and fluctuations for the emerging growth and biopharmaceutical market sectors, (ix) reports of securities analysts regarding the expected performance of the Corporation, and (x) events related to threatened, new or existing litigation. Listing on NASDAQ and the TSX may increase share price volatility due to various factors including, (i) different ability to buy or sell the Corporation’s Common Shares, (ii) different market conditions in different capital markets; and (iii) different trading volume. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of Common Shares, regardless of the Corporation’s operating performance. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of Common Shares in the public market after any offering, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of Common Shares to decline. Furthermore, shareholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of the Corporation’s stock drops significantly, which may cause the Corporation to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of its management. The Corporation is highly dependent on third parties. The Corporation is or may in the future be dependent on third parties for certain raw materials, product manufacture, marketing and distribution and, like other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, upon medical institutions to conduct clinical testing of its potential products. Although the Corporation does not anticipate any difficulty in obtaining any such materials and services, no assurance can be given that the Corporation will be able to obtain such materials and services. 10 The Corporation is subject to intense competition for its skilled personnel, and the loss of key personnel or the inability to attract additional personnel could impair its ability to conduct its operations. The Corporation is highly dependent on its management and its clinical, regulatory and scientific staff, the loss of whose services might adversely impact its ability to achieve its objectives. Recruiting and retaining qualified management and clinical, scientific and regulatory personnel is critical to the Corporation’s success. Competition for skilled personnel is intense, and the Corporation’s ability to attract and retain qualified personnel may be affected by such competition. The Corporation’s business involves the use of hazardous materials which requires the Corporation to comply with environmental regulation. The Corporation’s discovery and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. The Corporation is subject to federal, provincial and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of such an accident, the Corporation could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed the Corporation’s resources. The Corporation may not be adequately insured against this type of liability. The Corporation may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future, and its operations, business or assets may be materially adversely affected by current or future environmental laws or regulations. Legislative actions, potential new accounting pronouncements and higher insurance costs are likely to impact the Corporation’s future financial position or results of operations. Compliance with changing regulations regarding corporate governance and public disclosure, notably with respect to internal controls over financial reporting, may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours, and insurance costs are increasing as a result of this uncertainty. Future health care reforms may produce adverse consequences. Health care reform and controls on health care spending may limit the price the Corporation can charge for any products and the amounts thereof that it can sell. In particular, in the United States, the federal government and private insurers have considered ways to change, and have changed, the manner in which health care services are provided. Potential approaches and changes in recent years include controls on health care spending and the creation of large purchasing groups. In the future, the U.S. government may institute further controls and different reimbursement schemes and limits on Medicare and Medicaid spending or reimbursement. These controls, reimbursement schemes and limits might affect the payments the Corporation could collect from sales of any of its products in the United States. Uncertainties regarding future health care reform and private market practices could adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to sell any products profitably in the United States. Election of new or different political or government officials in large market countries could lead to dramatic changes in pricing, regulatory approval legislation and reimbursement which could have material impact on product approvals and commercialization. The Corporation faces an unproven market for its future products. The Corporation believes that there will be many different applications for products successfully derived from its technologies and that the anticipated market for products under development will continue to expand. No assurance, however, can be given that these beliefs will prove to be correct due to competition from existing or new products and the yet to be established commercial viability of the Corporation’s products. Physicians, patients, formularies, third party payers or the medical community in general may not accept or utilize any products that the Corporation or its collaborative partners may develop. 11 The Corporation may be faced with future lawsuits related to secondary market liability. Securities legislation in Canada has recently changed to make it easier for shareholders to sue. These changes could lead to frivolous law suits which could take substantial time, money, resources and attention or force the Corporation to settle such claims rather than seek adequate judicial remedy or dismissal of such claims. The Corporation may encounter unforeseen emergency situations. Despite the implementation of security measures, any of the Corporation’s, its collaborators’ or its third party service providers’ internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failure. Any resulting system failure, accident or security breach could result in a material disruption of the Corporation’s operations. The Corporation’s technologies may become obsolete. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapidly changing markets, technology, emerging industry standards and frequent introduction of new products. The introduction of new products embodying new technologies, including new manufacturing processes, and the emergence of new industry standards may render the Corporation’s technologies obsolete, less competitive or less marketable. Our product candidates may cause undesirable serious adverse events during clinical trials that could delay or prevent their regulatory authorization, approval or other permission to conduct further testing or commence commercialization. Our product candidates in clinical development, including ELND005 (AZD-103), can potentially cause adverse events. Most recently, together with our collaborator, Elan, we completed a Phase II study that evaluated three dose groups of ELND005 (AZD-103) and a placebo group in mild to moderate Alzheimer’s disease patients. The study included four treatment arms: placebo, 250mg bid, 1000mg bid and 2000mg bid. The two high dose ELND005 (AZD-103) groups were electively discontinued in 2009 by the companies due to an observed imbalance of serious adverse events, including deaths. No causal relationship could be determined between these higher doses and the events. Of the 351 subjects who received study drug, a total of 171 subjects received either 250mg bid or placebo, the rest were in the two discontinued high dose groups. The overall incidence of adverse events in the 250mg bid and placebo groups was 87.5% versus 91.6%; and the incidence of withdrawals due to adverse events was 10.2% versus 9.6%, respectively. The incidence of serious adverse events in the 250mg bid and placebo groups was 21.6% versus 13.3%, but the incidence of serious adverse events that were considered drug related was 2.3% and 2.4%, respectively. The total number of deaths in the study was five and four in the 1000mg bid and 2000mg bid dose groups versus one and zero in the 250mg bid and placebo groups, respectively. These deaths occurred between August 2008 and November 2009. The study’s independent safety monitoring committee reviewed the final safety results and continued to conclude that a causal relationship between the deaths and drug could not be determined. The most common adverse events in the 250mg bid group that were >5% in incidence and double the placebo rate were: falls (12.5% vs. placebo 6%), depression (11.4% vs. placebo 4.8%), and confusional state (8% vs. placebo 3.6%). Because our product candidates have been tested in relatively small patient populations and for limited durations, additional adverse events may be observed as their development progresses. Adverse events caused by any of our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. This, in turn, could prevent the commercialization of our product candidates and the generation of revenues from their sale. In addition, if our product candidates receive authorization, marketing approval or other permission and we or others later identify adverse events caused by the product: 12 • regulatory authorities may withdraw their authorization, approval, or other permission to test or market the candidate product; • we may be required to recall the product, change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; • a product may become less competitive and product sales may decrease; or • our reputation may suffer. Any one or a combination of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product candidate, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from the sale of such products. We may be subject to costly product liability claims and may not have adequate insurance. The conduct of clinical trials in humans involves the potential risk that the use of our product candidates will result in adverse effects. We currently maintain product liability insurance for our clinical trials; however, such liability insurance may not be adequate to fully cover any liabilities that arise from clinical trials of our product candidates. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, our insurance coverage. U.S. holders of our common shares may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a Passive Foreign Investment Company. There is a risk that we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our status as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to U.S. Holders of our common shares and may cause a reduction in the value of such shares. We will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which (i) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all of our assets produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, passive income includes dividends, interest, royalties and rents that are not derived in the active conduct of a trade or business. Based on the projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, we do not believe we were a PFIC for the year ended June 30, 2011 and do not believe we will be a PFIC for the year ending June 30, 2012. However, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or a U.S. court could determine that we are a PFIC in any year. If we are classified as a PFIC, U.S. Holders of our common shares could be subject to greater U.S. income tax liability than might otherwise apply, imposition of U.S. income tax in advance of when tax would otherwise apply, and detailed tax filing requirements that would not otherwise apply. The PFIC rules are complex and U.S. Holders of our common shares are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules to them in their particular circumstances. See “Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation.” 