ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, readers should carefully consider the following important factors. These factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our financial condition and results of operations and could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements that appear in this on Form 10-K or that we have made or will make elsewhere. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history. Our limited operating history and the early stage of development of the CCA industry in which we operate makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. Although our revenues have grown rapidly, we cannot assure you that we will maintain our profitability or that we will not incur net losses in the future. We expect that our operating expenses will increase as we expand. Any significant failure to realize anticipated revenue growth could result in operating losses. We will continue to encounter risks and difficulties in implementing our business model, including potential failure to: · increase awareness of our products, protect our reputation and develop customer loyalty; · manage our expanding operations and service offerings, including the integration of any future acquisitions; 14 · maintain adequate control of our expenses; and · anticipate and adapt to changing conditions in the markets in which we operate as well as the impact of any changes in government regulation, mergers and acquisitions involving our competitors, technological developments and other significant competitive and market dynamics. If we are not successful in addressing any or all of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Quarterly operating results may fluctuate. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuation in the demand for and shipments of our products and changes in the prices of copper which directly affect the prices of our products and may influence the demand for our products. Therefore, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations have been and will be impacted by the volume of such orders and shipments. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by the following factors, among others, such as variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in response to competitive factors, increases in raw material costs and other significant costs, increases in utility costs (particularly electricity) and interruptions in plant operations resulting from the interruption of raw material supplies and other factors. Fluctuating copper prices impact our business and operating results. Copper prices, which have increased quite rapidly over the past several years, have recently declined over 50% and may vary significantly in the future because the copper industry is highly volatile and cyclical in nature. This affects our business both positively and negatively. For example, since our products are a substitute for pure copper wire, higher copper prices usually increase demand for our CCA products, while lower copper prices can decrease demand for CCA products. Numerous factors, most of which are beyond our control, influence copper price. These factors include general economic conditions, industry capacity utilization, import duties and other trade restrictions. We cannot predict copper prices in the future or the effect of fluctuations in the costs of copper on our future operating results. Consequently, fluctuations in copper prices can significantly affect our business and operating results. We may encounter substantial competition in our business and our failure to compete effectively may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. The CCA industry is becoming increasingly competitive. The principal elements of competition in the bimetallic industry are, in our opinion, pricing, product availability and quality. In periods of reduced demand for our products, we can either choose to maintain market share by reducing our selling prices to meet competition or maintain selling prices, which may sacrifice market share. Sales and overall profitability would be reduced under either scenario. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our existing markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competition. We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth. If our business and markets grow and develop as we expect, it may be necessary for us to finance and manage expansion in an orderly fashion. In addition, we may face challenges in managing expanding product offerings. Such eventualities will increase demands on our existing management and facilities. Failure to manage this growth and expansion could interrupt or adversely affect our operations and cause production backlogs, longer product development time frames and administrative inefficiencies. Shortages or disruptions in the availability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business. We expect that raw materials of CCA and recycled copper will continue to account for a significant portion of our cost of goods sold in the future. The prices of raw materials fluctuate because of general economic conditions, global supply and demand and other factors causing monthly variations in the costs of our raw materials purchases. The macro-economic factors, together with labor and other business interruptions experienced by certain suppliers, have contributed to periodic shortages in the supply of raw materials, and such shortages may increase in the future. If we are unable to procure adequate supplies of raw material to meet our future production needs and customer demand, shortages could result in a material loss of customers and revenues and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, supply shortages or disruptions or the loss of suppliers may cause us to procure our raw materials from less cost effective sources and may have a material adverse affect on our business, revenues and results of operations. 15 We depend on a few suppliers for a significant portion of our principal raw materials and we do not have any long-term supply contracts. Interruptions of production at our key suppliers may affect our results of operations and financial performance. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for most of the raw materials we use. Interruptions or shortages of supplies from our key suppliers of raw materials could disrupt production or impact our ability to increase production and sales. We do not have long-term or volume purchase agreements with most of our suppliers. Identifying and accessing alternative sources may increase our costs. Interruptions at our key suppliers could negatively impact our results of operations, financial performance and the price of our Common Stock. Due to increased volatility of raw material prices, the timing lag between the raw material purchase and product pricing can negatively impact our profitability. Volatility in the prices of raw materials, among other factors, may adversely impact our ability to accurately forecast demand and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We mitigate the impact of changing raw material prices by passing changes in prices to our customers by adjusting prices daily to reflect changes in raw material prices, as is customary in the industry. We may not be able to adjust our product prices rapidly enough in the short-term to recover the costs of increases in raw materials. Our future profitability may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to pass on higher raw material costs to our customers. Increases in raw materials prices will increase our need for working capital. As the prices of raw materials increase, our working capital requirements increase. Increases in our working capital requirements can materially adversely impact our results of operations, our cash flow and our available liquidity to fund other business needs. Furthermore, there is no assurance we would be able to finance additional working capital requirements or finance such working capital requirements on favorable terms. If we were unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Liquidity and Capital Resources” below. Increases in raw materials prices may increase credit and default risk with respect to our customers. Increases in the price of our products, as raw material prices rise, may place additional demands on the working capital and liquidity needs of our customers. Accordingly, our customers’ cash flow may be negatively impacted which may have an adverse affect on the timing and amount of payment on our accounts receivable, which would in turn, negatively affect our results of operations. If the CCA industry does not grow as we expect or grows at a slower speed than we expect, our sales and profitability may be materially adversely affected. We derive most of our profits from sales of our products in China. The continued development of our business depends, in large part, on continued growth in the bimetallic industry in China. Although China’s CCA industry has grown rapidly in the past, it may not continue to grow at the same growth rate in the future or at all. Any reduced demand for our products, any downturn or other adverse changes in China’s CCA or related industries could severely impact the profitability of our business. Potential environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. As a manufacturer, we are subject to various Chinese environmental laws and regulations on air emission, waste water discharge, solid wastes and noise. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental laws and regulations, we may not be able to comply with these regulations at all times as the Chinese environmental legal regime is evolving and becoming more stringent. Therefore, if the Chinese government imposes more stringent regulations in the future, we may have to incur additional and potentially substantial costs and expenses in order to comply with new regulations, which may negatively affect our results of operations. Further, no assurance can be given that all potential environmental liabilities have been identified or properly quantified or that any prior owner, operator, or tenant has not created an environmental condition unknown to us. If we fail to comply with any of the present or future environmental regulations in any material aspects, we may suffer from negative publicity and may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend or even cease operations. We face intense competition and many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we have. Our competitors may have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, purchasing, manufacturing, personnel and other resources than we do. Furthermore, some of our competitors have manufacturing and sales forces that are geographically diversified, allowing them to reduce transportation expenses, tariff costs and currency fluctuations for certain customers in markets where their facilities are located. We might lose some of our current or future business to these competitors or be forced to reduce our margins to retain or acquire that business, which could decrease our revenues or slow our future revenue growth and lead to a decline in profitability. Further, to the extent that, whether as a result of the increased cost of copper, the relative strength of the Chinese currency, shipping costs or other factors, we are not able to price our products competitively, our ability to sell our products in both the Chinese domestic and the international markets will suffer. 16 Key employees are essential to growing our business. Mr. Jianhua Zhu, Mrs. Yaying Wang and Mr. Roy Yu and other senior management personnel are essential to our ability to continue to grow our business. Mr. Zhu, Mrs. Wang and Mr. Yu have established relationships within the industries in which we operate. If any of them were to leave us, our growth strategy might be hindered, which could limit our ability to increase revenue. In addition, we face competition for attracting skilled personnel. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel to meet current and future needs, this could slow our ability to grow our business, which could result in a decrease in market share. We may need additional financing, which may not be available to find such financing on satisfactory terms or at all. Our capital requirements may be accelerated as a result of many factors, including timing of development activities, underestimates of budget items, unanticipated expenses or capital expenditures, future product opportunities with collaborators, future licensing opportunities and future business combinations. Consequently, we may need to seek additional debt or equity financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, and which may be dilutive to our stockholders. We may seek to raise additional capital through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing debt securities, we may incur substantial interest obligations, may be required to pledge assets as security for the debt and may be constrained by restrictive financial and/or operational covenants. Debt financing would also be superior to our stockholders' interest in bankruptcy or liquidation. To the extent we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on unfavorable terms. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or to secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights could diminish. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. To date, we have filed four patent applications to the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC. However, we cannot predict the degree and range of protection patents will afford us against competitors. Third parties may find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our proprietary technology. Third parties may attempt to obtain patents claiming aspects similar to our patent applications. If we need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings, such actions may be costly whether we win or lose. Our success also depends on the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, consultants, advisors, licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and inventions for which patents may be unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. If any of our intellectual property is disclosed, our value would be significantly impaired, and our business and competitive position would suffer. If we infringe the rights of third parties, we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages and compelled to defend against litigation. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs, and may have to obtain licenses (which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all), redesign our products or processes, stop using the subject matter claimed in the asserted patents, pay damages, or defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether it wins or loses. All of the above could result in a substantial diversion of valuable management resources. 17 We believe we have taken reasonable steps, including comprehensive internal and external prior patent searches, to ensure we have freedom to operate and that our development and commercialization efforts can be carried out as planned without infringing others’ proprietary rights. However, we cannot guarantee that no third party patent has been filed or will be filed that may contain subject matter of relevance to our development, causing a third party patent holder to claim infringement. Resolving such issues has traditionally resulted, and could in our case result, in lengthy and costly legal proceedings, the outcome of which cannot be predicted accurately. We have never paid cash dividends and are not likely to do so in the foreseeable future . We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our Common Stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future but will review this policy as circumstances dictate. We do not have a majority of independent directors serving on our board of directors, which could present the potential for conflicts of interest. We do not have a majority of independent directors serving on our board of directors. In the absence of a majority of independent directors, our executive officers could establish policies and enter into transactions without independent review and approval thereof. This could present the potential for a conflict of interest between us and our stockholders, generally, and the controlling officers, stockholders or directors. One investor owns a large percentage of our outstanding stock and could significantly influence the outcome of actions. Currently, Mr. Chu Fu Ho, the sole shareholder of Magnify Wealth Enterprise Limited, beneficially owns approximately 92.4% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Chu will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. For more information regarding the ownership of our outstanding stock by our executive officers and directors and their affiliates, please see the section titled “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” below. If we are unable to maintain appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. As a public company, we have significant additional requirements for enhanced financial reporting and internal controls. We will be required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. We cannot assure you that we will not, in the future, identify areas requiring improvement in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that the measures we will take to remediate any areas in need of improvement will be successful or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future as we continue our growth. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley and meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. 18 Risks Associated With Doing Business In China There are substantial risks associated with doing business in China, as set forth in the following risk factors. Our operations and assets in China are subject to significant political and economic uncertainties. Changes in PRC laws and regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under our current leadership, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the Chinese government will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. We derive a substantial portion of our sales from China and a slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our services and our business. Substantially all of our sales are generated from China. We anticipate that sales of our products in China will continue to represent a substantial proportion of our total sales in the near future. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. The industrial which we are involved in the PRC is relatively new and growing, but we do not know how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the PRC economy which may affect demand for our products. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC may materially reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business. Currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency exchange may adversely affect our business, including limiting our ability to convert Chinese renminbi into foreign currencies and, if Chinese renminbi were to decline in value, reducing our revenue in U.S. dollar terms. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our operations in China use their local currency as their functional currencies. Substantially all of our revenue and expenses are in Chinese renminbi. We are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies. For example, the value of the renminbi depends to a large extent on Chinese government policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments, as well as supply and demand in the local market. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of renminbi to the U.S. dollar had generally been stable and the renminbi had appreciated slightly against the U.S. dollar. However, on July 21, 2005, the Chinese government changed its policy of pegging the value of Chinese renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, Chinese renminbi may fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. It is possible that the Chinese government could adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuation of Chinese renminbi against the U.S. dollar. We can offer no assurance that Chinese renminbi will be stable against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency. The income statements of our operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currencies denominated transactions results in reduced revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. Similarly, to the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in increased revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars in consolidation. If there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of the foreign subsidiaries’ financial statements into U.S. dollars will lead to a translation gain or loss which is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. In addition, we have certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant entity’s functional currency. Changes in the functional currency value of these assets and liabilities create fluctuations that will lead to a transaction gain or loss. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. The availability and effectiveness of any hedging transaction may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exchange rate risks. 19 PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) Regulations regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents have undertaken continuous changes which may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could adversely affect our business. Recent regulations promulgated by the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents have undergone a number of changes which may increase the administrative burden we face. The failure by our stockholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident stockholders to liability under PRC law. In 2005, SAFE promulgated regulations in the form of public notices, which require registrations with, and approval from, SAFE on direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC resident individuals. The SAFE regulations require that if an offshore company directly or indirectly formed by or controlled by PRC resident individuals, known as “SPC,” intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the SAFE. Without registration, the PRC entity cannot remit any of its profits out of the PRC as dividends or otherwise. This could have a material adverse effect on us given that we expect to be a publicly listed company in the U.S. Because our principal assets are located outside of the United States and all of our directors and all our officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights based on the United States Federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors in the United States or to enforce judgments of United States courts against us or them in the PRC. All of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. In addition, our operating subsidiaries are located in the PRC and all of their assets are located outside of the United States. China does not have a treaty with United States providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the United States Federal securities laws against us in the courts of either the United States or the PRC and, even if civil judgments are obtained in courts of the United States, to enforce such judgments in PRC courts. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and directors of criminal penalties, under the United States Federal securities laws or otherwise. We may have limited legal recourse under PRC law if disputes arise under our contracts with third parties. The Chinese government has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, their experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. If our new business ventures are unsuccessful, or other adverse circumstances arise from these transactions, we face the risk that the parties to these ventures may seek ways to terminate the transactions, or, may hinder or prevent us from accessing important information regarding the financial and business operations of these acquired companies. The resolution of these matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to specific performance, or to seek an injunction under PRC law, in either of these cases, are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although legislation in China over the past 25 years has significantly improved the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment and contractual arrangements in China, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties, which could limit the legal protection available to us, and foreign investors, including you. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital and could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. Although we inform our personnel that such practices are illegal, we can not assure you that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties. 20 Due to various restrictions under PRC laws on the distribution of dividends by our PRC operating companies, we may not be able to pay dividends to our stockholders. The Wholly-Foreign Owned Enterprise Law (1986), as amended and The Wholly-Foreign Owned Enterprise Law Implementing Rules (1990), as amended contain the principal regulations governing dividend distributions by wholly foreign owned enterprises. Under these regulations, wholly foreign owned enterprises, such as Lihua Electron and Lihua Copper, may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Additionally, Lihua Electron and Lihua Copper are required to set aside a certain amount of their accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends except in the event of liquidation and cannot be used for working capital purposes. The PRC government also imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of the PRC. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency for the payment of dividends from the profits of Lihua Electron and Lihua Copper. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If we or our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. Changes in foreign exchange regulations in the PRC may affect our ability to pay dividends in foreign currency or conduct other foreign exchange business. We receive all of our revenues in renminbi, the Chinese currency, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. The restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in RMB to make dividends or other payments in United States dollars. The PRC government strictly regulates conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Over the years, foreign exchange regulations in the PRC have significantly reduced the government’s control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts. In the PRC, SAFE regulates the conversion of the RMB into foreign currencies. Pursuant to applicable PRC laws and regulations, foreign invested enterprises incorporated in the PRC are required to apply for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates.” Currently, conversion within the scope of the “current account” (e.g. remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, etc.) can be effected without requiring the approval of SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account” (e.g. for capital items such as direct investments, loans, securities, etc.) still requires the approval of SAFE. In addition, failure to obtain approval from SAFE for currency conversion on the capital account may adversely impact our capital expenditure plans and our ability to expand in accordance with our desired objectives. The PRC government also may at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining foreign currency, we may be unable to pay dividends or meet obligations that may be incurred in the future that require payment in foreign currency. PRC regulations relating to mergers and acquisitions of domestic enterprises by foreign investors may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or SASAC, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, and SAFE jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. According to Rule 55 of the M&A rules and Guidance Manual on Administration of Entry of Foreign Investment issued by the Department of Foreign Investment Administration of the Ministry of Commerce in December 2008, conversion of a joint venture to a wholly foreign owned enterprise by way of equity transfer from a Chinese party to a foreign party, shall not be subject to the M&A rules, and the M&A rules are only applicable to acquisitions of a domestic enterprise or its assets by a foreigner. The M&A rules also require offshore companies formed for overseas listing purposes through acquisitions of PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC companies or individuals to obtain the approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission ("CSRC") prior to the public listing of their securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, pursuant to the New M&A Rules and other PRC Laws, the CSRC published on its official website relevant guidance with respect to the listing and trading of PRC domestic enterprises' securities on overseas stock exchanges ("Related Clarifications"), including a list of application materials regarding the listing on overseas stock exchanges by special purpose vehicles. However, the CSRC currently has not issued any definitive rule concerning whether the transactions effected by the restructuring are subject to the New M&A Rules and Related Clarifications. Article 238 of the PRC Securities Law also provides that any domestic enterprise that directly or indirectly issues any securities abroad or lists its securities abroad for trading shall be subject to the approval of the securities regulatory authority under the State Council according to the relevant provisions of the State Council. Based on our understanding of current PRC Laws, we believe that the M&A Rule does not apply to our June 2008 restructuring and therefore the restructuring did not require CSRC approval because (i) the restructuring was a purely foreign related transaction governed by foreign laws, not subject to the jurisdiction of PRC laws and regulations; (ii) we are not a special purpose vehicle formed or controlled by PRC companies or PRC individuals, (iii) we are owned or substantively controlled by foreigners, (iv) conversion of our operating entities from a joint venture to a wholly foreign owned enterprise is not subject to the M&A rules. 21 There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of the above rules, and CSRC has yet to promulgate any written provisions or formally to declare or state whether the overseas listing of a PRC-related company similar to ours is be subject to the approval of CSRC. If CSRC approval is required in connection with the restructuring, our failure to obtain or delay obtaining such approval could result in penalties imposed by CSRC and other PRC regulatory agencies. These penalties could include fines and penalties on our operations in China, restriction or limitation on remitting dividends outside of China, and other forms of sanctions that may cause a material and adverse effect to our business, operations and financial conditions. Though the M&A rules do not have express provisions in terms of penalties for failure to obtain CSRC approval prior to the public listing of our securities, there are some other penalty provisions in other PRC laws and regulations regulating offshore listing, which can be cited as reference hereto: (i) Pursuant to Article 188 of the PRC Securities Law, any entity that issues securities or issues securities in disguised form without verification or examination and approval by the statutory authority shall be ordered to cease issuance and refund the funds thus raised, together with bank deposit interest for the same period, and shall also be fined not less than 1 percent but not more than 5 percent of the amount of the proceeds illegally raised. The persons directly in charge and the other persons directly responsible shall be given a disciplinary warning and also be fined not less than RMB30,000 ($4,325) but not more than RMB300,000 ($43,245). However, we believe that this penalty relates to a domestic listing because the PRC Securities Law primarily regulates domestic listing, and would not have any application with respect to the listing or de-listing of a company's stock in the US stock market. (ii) Pursuant to the Circular of the State Council Concerning Further Strengthening the Administration of Overseas Issuance and Listing of Securities, the overseas listing of securities of a PRC-related company which violates this Circular shall be deemed as an issuance of shares without authorization or approval. Persons in charge of the competent departments responsible for approval of overseas issuances could be given administrative sanctions if such person in charge is liable for the violation. People heading the issuing entity and other people directly responsible for the issuance shall be penalized, including being demoted to a lower level position or having their employment terminated. If the violation constitutes a crime, criminal liability may be claimed against the relevant responsible persons according to relevant laws. The issuing entity, relevant agencies involved and the responsible people thereof shall be penalized by the CSRC in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Regulations on the Administration of Issuance and Trading of Securities and other relevant provisions. We do not believe that any of these measures would allow or authorize the CSRC or other PRC governmental departments to unwind the June 2008 restructuring, because it was a purely a foreign related transaction governed by foreign laws, and any PRC governmental department does not have jurisdiction over such a transaction. However, there is a risk that such penalties may be applied to the relevant PRC operating entities. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. We are dependent on our relationship with the local government in the province in which we operate our business. Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may have an adverse effect on profitability. These factors have led to the adoption by Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. The PRC historically has been deficient in Western style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as in modern banking, and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, and especially given that we expect to be a publicly listed company in the U.S. and subject to regulation as such, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable laws, rules and regulations. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a materially adverse effect on our business and the public announcement of such deficiencies could adversely impact our stock price. It may be difficult to protection of intellectual property rights under PRC law. Intellectual property rights in China are still developing, and there are uncertainties involved in their protection and the enforcement of such protection. We will need to pay special attention to protecting its intellectual property and trade secrets. Failure to do so could lead to the loss of a competitive advantage that could not be compensated by a damages award. Under PRC law, we are required to obtain permits and business licenses, and our failure to do so would adversely impact our ability to conduct business in China. We hold various permits, business licenses, and approvals authorizing their operations and activities, which are subject to periodic review and reassessment by the Chinese authorities. Standards of compliance necessary to pass such reviews change from time to time and differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, leading to a degree of uncertainty. If renewals, or new permits, business licenses or approvals required in connection with existing or new facilities or activities, are not granted or are delayed, or if existing permits, business licenses or approvals are revoked or substantially modified, we will suffer a material adverse effect. If new standards are applied to renewals or new applications, it could prove costly to us to meet any new level of compliance. 22 The PRC government could revoke our land rights, which would leave us without our operational capabilities. Under Chinese law, only the government owns land, and the government issues to tenants the rights to use property. Use rights can be revoked and the tenants forced to vacate at any time when redevelopment of the land is in the public interest. The public interest rationale is interpreted quite broadly and the process of land appropriation may be less than transparent. Each of our two operating subsidiaries rely on these land use rights as the cornerstone of their operations, and the loss of such rights would have a material adverse effect on our company. We currently enjoy a reduced tax rate and other government incentives, and the loss of or reduction in these benefits may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Because we may not be able to obtain business insurance in the PRC, we may not be protected from risks that are customarily covered by insurance in the United States. Business insurance is not readily available in the PRC. To the extent that we suffer a loss of a type which would normally be covered by insurance in the United States, such as product liability and general liability insurance, we would incur significant expenses in both defending any action and in paying any claims that result from a settlement or judgment. We are subject to the environmental protection law of China. Our manufacturing process may produce by-products such as effluent, gases and noise, which are harmful to the environment. We are subject to multiple laws governing environmental protection, such as “The Law on Environmental Protection in the PRC” and “The Law on Prevention of Effluent Pollution in the PRC,” as well as standards set by the relevant governmental authorities determining the classification of different wastes and proper disposal. We have properly attained a waste disposal permit for our manufacturing facility, which details the types and concentration of effluents and gases allowed for disposal. China is experiencing substantial problems with environmental pollution. Accordingly, it is likely that the national, provincial and local governmental agencies will adopt stricter pollution controls. There can be no assurance that future changes in environmental laws and regulations will not impose costly compliance requirements on us or otherwise subject us to future liabilities. Our profitability may be adversely affected if additional or modified environmental control regulations are imposed upon us. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another widespread public health problem, could adversely affect our operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in the PRC, where all of our revenue is derived, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including quarantines or closures of some of our offices that could leave us without many employees to conduct our business which would materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Risks Related to the Common Stock If we do not timely file and have declared effective the registration statement pursuant to the Private Placement, we will be subject to liquidated damages. In connection with the Private Placement, we entered into a Registration Rights Agreement. Under this agreement, we are obligated to file a registration statement providing for the resale of shares underlying the Preferred Shares and Warrants issued in the Private Placement. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, we agreed to file and have declared effective the Registration Statement by April 29, 2009. Although we believe that we will be able to take all steps necessary to permit the SEC to declare the Registration Statements effective timely, it is possible that the SEC may, by application of policies or procedures that vary from past policies and procedures, delay the effectiveness of the Registration Statements or make it impractical for us to respond to the SEC in a manner that permits us to declare the Registration Statements effective. We will pay liquidated damages of 1% of the dollar amount of the shares registered in the Registration Statement for each 30 day period the Registration Statement is not declared effective, payable in cash, up to a maximum of 10%. 23 When the Registration Statement becomes effective, there will be a significant number of shares of Common Stock eligible for sale, which could depress the market price of such stock. Following the effective date of the Registration Statement, a large number of shares of Common Stock will become available for sale in the public market if our Common Stock is trading at such time, which could harm the market price of the stock. Further, shares may be offered from time to time in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, and these sales may have a depressive effect as well. There may not be sufficient liquidity in the market for our securities in order for investors to sell their securities. There is currently no public market for our Common Stock and there can be no assurance that a trading market will develop further or be maintained in the future. As of March 30, 2009, we had approximately 12 shareholders of record of our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. If a public market develops for our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board or on a national securities exchange, trading in our Common Stock may be highly volatile. Some of the factors that may materially affect the future market price of our common stock are beyond our control, such as changes in any financial estimates by industry and securities analysts, conditions or trends in the industry in which we operate or sales of our common stock. These factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, the public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 