ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This report contains statements that may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe-harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, such as statements other than historical facts contained or incorporated by reference in this report. These forward-looking statements include statements with respect to M&I’s financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business, including statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words “believes,” “expects,” or “anticipates,” references to estimates or similar expressions. Future filings by M&I with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and future statements other than historical facts contained in written material, press releases and oral statements issued by, or on behalf of, M&I may also constitute forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements contained in this report or which may be contained in future statements made for or on behalf of M&I are based upon information available at the time the statement is made and M&I assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, except as required by federal securities law. Forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, and M&I’s actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in such forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause actual results to differ from the results discussed in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. Risk Factors M&I’s earnings are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions, including credit risk and interest rate risk. M&I’s business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States and, in particular, the states where it has significant operations, including Wisconsin, Arizona, Indiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Kansas, Nevada and Florida. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, the strength of the U.S. and local economies, consumer spending, borrowing and saving habits, all of which are beyond M&I’s control. For example, an economic downturn, increase in unemployment or higher interest rates could decrease the demand for loans and other products and services and/or result in a deterioration in credit quality and/or loan performance and collectibility. Nonpayment of loans, if it occurs, could have an adverse effect on M&I’s financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Higher interest rates also could increase M&I’s cost to borrow funds and increase the rate M&I pays on deposits. M&I’s real estate loans expose the Corporation to increased credit risks. A substantial portion of M&I’s loan and lease portfolio consists of real estate-related loans, including construction and residential and commercial mortgage loans. As a result, the recent deterioration in the U.S. real estate markets has led to an increase in non-performing loans and charge-offs, and the Corporation has had to increase its allowance for loan and lease losses. Further deterioration in the commercial or residential real estate markets or in the U.S. economy would increase M&I’s exposure to real estate-related credit risk and cause the Corporation to further increase its allowance for loan and lease losses, all of which would have a material adverse effect on M&I’s financial condition and results of operations. Various factors may cause M&I’s allowance for loan and lease losses to increase. M&I’s allowance for loan and lease losses represents management’s estimate of probable losses inherent in the Corporation’s loan and lease portfolio. Management evaluates the allowance each quarter to determine that it is adequate to absorb these inherent losses. This evaluation is supported by a methodology that identifies estimated losses based on assessments of individual problem loans and historical loss patterns of homogeneous loan pools. In addition, environmental factors, including economic conditions and regulatory guidance, unique to each measurement date are also considered. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses is highly subjective and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which 10 Table of Contents may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, many of which are outside of the Corporation’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. Any increase in the allowance for possible loan and lease losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and would have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts and natural disasters could negatively affect M&I’s business and financial condition. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts (including conflict in the Middle East), natural disasters, and the actions taken by the U.S. and other governments in response to such events, could disrupt business operations and negatively impact general business and economic conditions in the U.S. If terrorist activity, acts of war, other international hostilities or natural disasters disrupt business operations, trigger technology delays or failures, or damage physical facilities of M&I, its customers or service providers, or cause an overall economic decline, the financial condition and operating results of M&I could be materially adversely affected. The potential for future occurrences of these events has created many economic and political uncertainties that could seriously harm M&I’s business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. M&I’s earnings also are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies, which could affect repayment of loans and thereby materially adversely affect M&I. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board impact M&I significantly. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of financial instruments M&I holds. Those policies determine to a significant extent M&I’s cost of funds for lending and investing. Changes in those policies are beyond M&I’s control and are difficult to predict. Federal Reserve Board policies can affect M&I’s borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve Board could reduce the demand for a borrower’s products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower’s earnings and ability to repay its loan, which could materially adversely affect M&I. The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive, which could adversely affect M&I’s financial condition and results of operations. M&I operates in a highly competitive environment in the products and services M&I offers and the markets in which M&I serves. The competition among financial services providers to attract and retain customers is intense. Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor’s new products, especially offerings that provide cost savings to the customer. Some of M&I’s competitors may be better able to provide a wider range of products and services over a greater geographic area. M&I believes the banking and financial services industry will become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continued consolidation of the industry. Technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. Also, investment banks and insurance companies are competing in more banking businesses such as syndicated lending and consumer banking. Many of M&I’s competitors are subject to fewer regulatory constraints and have lower cost structures. M&I expects the consolidation of the banking and financial services industry to result in larger, better-capitalized companies offering a wide array of financial services and products. Federal and state agency regulation could increase M&I’s cost structures or have other negative effects on M&I. The Corporation and M&I LLC, their subsidiary banks and many of their non-bank subsidiaries are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is designed primarily to protect consumers, depositors and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or 11 Table of Contents regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect M&I in substantial and unpredictable ways including limiting the types of financial services and products M&I may offer, increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products and/or increasing M&I’s cost structures. Also, M&I’s failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies and damage to its reputation. M&I is subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities, which, if not resolved in M&I’s favor, could adversely affect M&I’s financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. In the normal course of business, M&I and its affiliates are routinely subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments it has made and the businesses in which it is engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in M&I’s favor, they could have an adverse effect on M&I’s financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could result in a loss of income to M&I. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks at one or both ends of the transaction. For example, consumers can now pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. Maintaining or increasing M&I’s market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services and other factors, and M&I’s failure to achieve such acceptance and approval could harm its market share. M&I’s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its products and services to evolving industry standards and to control expenses. There is increasing pressure on financial services companies to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce M&I’s net interest margin and revenues from its fee-based products and services. In addition, M&I’s success depends in part on its ability to generate significant levels of new business in its existing markets and in identifying and penetrating new markets. Growth rates for card-based payment transactions and other product markets may not continue at recent levels. Further, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including Internet-based services, could require M&I to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing products and services or render M&I’s existing products obsolete. M&I may not successfully introduce new products and services, achieve market acceptance of its products and services, develop and maintain loyal customers and/or break into targeted markets. The Corporation and M&I LLC rely on dividends from their subsidiaries for most of their revenue, and the banking subsidiaries hold a significant portion of their assets indirectly. The Corporation and M&I LLC are separate and distinct legal entities from their subsidiaries. They receive substantially all of their revenue from dividends from their subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Corporation’s common stock and interest on the Corporation’s and M&I LLC’s debt. The payment of dividends by a subsidiary is subject to federal law restrictions and to the laws of the subsidiary’s state of incorporation. Furthermore, a parent company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In addition, M&I’s bank and savings association subsidiaries hold a significant portion of their mortgage loan and investment portfolios indirectly through their ownership interests in direct and indirect subsidiaries. 12 Table of Contents M&I depends on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties, and inaccurate or incomplete information could negatively impact M&I’s financial condition and results of operations. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, M&I may rely on information provided to it by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. M&I may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, M&I may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform with generally accepted accounting principles and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. M&I may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. M&I’s financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent it relies on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or that are materially misleading. An interruption or breach in security of M&I’s or M&I’s third party service providers’ communications and information technologies could have a material adverse effect on M&I’s business. M&I relies heavily on communications and information technology to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in M&I’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. Despite M&I’s policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of such a failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such events will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of M&I’s information systems could damage the Corporation’s reputation, result in a loss of customers or customer business, subject the Corporation to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Corporation to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, M&I relies on third-party service providers for a substantial portion of its communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of these third-party service providers experiences financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in M&I’s relationships with them, M&I may be required to locate alternative sources of these services. There can be no assurance that M&I could negotiate terms as favorable to the Corporation or obtain services with similar functionality as it currently has without the expenditure of substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect M&I’s business. M&I’s accounting policies and methods are the basis of how M&I reports its financial condition and results of operations, and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. M&I’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how M&I records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. M&I’s management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report M&I’s financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in M&I’s reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. M&I has identified three accounting policies as being “critical” to the presentation of its financial condition and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective and/or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. These critical accounting policies relate to: (1) the allowance for loan and lease losses; (2) financial asset sales and securitizations; and (3) income taxes. Because of the inherent uncertainty of estimates about these matters, no assurance can be given that the application of alternative policies or methods might not result in M&I’s reporting materially different amounts. More information on M&I’s critical accounting policies is contained in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 13 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards could adversely affect M&I’s reported financial results. The bodies that set accounting standards for public companies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the Securities and Exchange Commission and others, periodically change or revise existing interpretations of the accounting and reporting standards that govern the way that M&I reports its financial condition and results of operations. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact M&I’s reported financial results. In some cases, M&I could be required to apply a new or revised accounting standard, or a new or revised interpretation of an accounting standard, retroactively, which could have a negative impact on reported results or result in the restatement of M&I’s financial statements for prior periods. M&I has an active acquisition program, which involves risks related to integration of acquired companies or businesses and the potential for the dilution of the value of M&I stock. M&I regularly explores opportunities to acquire banking institutions and other financial services providers. M&I cannot predict the number, size or timing of future acquisitions. M&I typically does not publicly comment on a possible acquisition or business combination until it has signed a definitive agreement for the transaction. Once M&I has signed a definitive agreement, transactions of this type are generally subject to regulatory approvals and other customary conditions. There can be no assurance M&I will receive such regulatory approvals without unexpected delays or conditions or that such conditions will be timely met to M&I’s satisfaction, or at all. Difficulty in integrating an acquired company or business may cause M&I not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. Specifically, the integration process could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss of customers and key employees, the disruption of M&I’s business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect M&I’s ability to maintain existing relationships with clients, employees and suppliers or to enter into new business relationships. M&I may not be able to successfully leverage the combined product offerings to the combined customer base. These factors could contribute to M&I not achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition within the desired time frames, if at all. Future acquisitions could require M&I to issue stock, to use substantial cash or liquid assets or to incur debt. In such cases, the value of M&I stock could be diluted and M&I could become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures. M&I is dependent on senior management, and the loss of the services of any of M&I’s senior executive officers could cause M&I’s business to suffer. M&I’s continued success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of its senior management. The loss of services of any of M&I’s senior executive officers could cause M&I’s business to suffer. In addition, M&I’s success depends in part upon senior management’s ability to implement M&I’s business strategy. M&I’s stock price can be volatile. M&I’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: • actual or anticipated variations in M&I’s quarterly results; • new technology or services offered by M&I’s competitors; • unanticipated losses or gains due to unexpected events, including losses or gains on securities held for investment purposes; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving M&I or its competitors; • changes in accounting policies or practices; • failure to integrate M&I’s acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from M&I’s acquisitions; • changes in government regulations; or • credit quality ratings. 14 Table of Contents General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations, also could cause M&I’s stock price to decrease regardless of its operating results. M&I may be a defendant in a variety of litigation and other actions, which may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. M&I and its subsidiaries may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation arising out of M&I’s business. M&I’s insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it, and any claims asserted against M&I, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm M&I’s reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed M&I’s insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on M&I’s business, operating results and financial condition and cash flows. In addition, M&I may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may M&I be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. M&I may not realize the anticipated benefits from the Separation. The long-term success of the Separation will depend, in part, on the ability of M&I to realize the anticipated benefits of the Separation. These anticipated benefits include the availability of increased capital for M&I to continue its internal growth and acquisition strategies, M&I’s ability to use its capital stock as a form of currency in respect of certain acquisitions and equity-based compensation arrangements and the better alignment of employee incentive awards. There can be no assurance that these benefits will be realized. The Separation may present significant challenges. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of separating M&I and Metavante. Even though the transactions effecting the Separation are complete, these difficulties may continue for the foreseeable future. These difficulties may include any or all of the following: • difficulty preserving customer, distribution, supplier and other important relationships; • the potential difficulty in retaining key officers and personnel; and • difficulty separating corporate infrastructure, including systems, insurance, accounting, legal, finance, tax and human resources, for each of two new public companies. As a separate entity, M&I no longer enjoys all of the benefits of scale that it achieved with the combined banking and Metavante businesses, which could adversely affect M&I’s results of operations. Prior to the Separation, Old M&I benefited from the scope and scale of the banking and Metavante businesses in certain areas, including, among other things, risk management, employee benefits, regulatory compliance, administrative services, legal support and human resources. M&I’s loss of these benefits as a consequence of the Separation could have an adverse effect on M&I’s business, results of operations and financial conditions following completion of the Separation. In addition, it is possible that some costs will be greater at the separate companies than they were for the combined company due to the loss of volume discounts and the position of being a large customer to service providers and vendors. If M&I’s share distribution and transactions related to the Separation do not qualify as tax-free distributions or reorganizations under the Internal Revenue Code, then M&I and M&I’s shareholders may be responsible for payment of significant U.S. federal income taxes. In transactions related to the Separation, Old M&I distributed shares of its common stock to effect the Separation. If the share distribution does not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, Metavante would recognize a taxable gain that would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to Metavante. Metavante would be primarily liable for these taxes and M&I would be secondarily liable. Under the terms of a tax allocation agreement related to the Separation, M&I will generally be required to indemnify Metavante against any such taxes unless such taxes would not have been imposed but for an act of Metavante or its affiliates, subject to specified exceptions. 15 Table of Contents Even if M&I’s share distribution otherwise qualifies as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the distribution would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to Metavante if there is an acquisition of M&I’s common stock or Metavante’s stock as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes M&I’s share distribution and that results in an acquisition of 50% or more of M&I’s outstanding common stock or Metavante stock. In this situation, M&I may be required to indemnify Metavante under the terms of a tax allocation agreement related to the Separation unless such taxes would not have been imposed but for specified acts of Metavante or its affiliates. In addition, mutual indemnity obligations in the tax allocation agreement could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire M&I. As a result of the Separation, any financing M&I obtains in the future could involve higher costs. As a result of the completion of the transactions relating to the Separation, any financing that M&I obtains will be with the support of a reduced pool of diversified assets, and therefore M&I may not be able to secure adequate debt or equity financing on desirable terms. The cost to M&I of financing without Metavante may be materially higher than the cost of financing prior to the Separation. If in the future M&I has a credit rating lower than it currently has, it will be more expensive for it to obtain debt financing than it was prior to the Separation. M&I will be restricted in its ability to issue equity for at least two years following completion of the Separation, which could limit its ability to make acquisitions or to raise capital required to service its debt and operate its business. The amount of equity that M&I can issue to make acquisitions (excluding acquisitions with respect to which M&I can prove the absence of “substantial negotiations” during applicable safe harbor periods) or raise additional capital will be limited for at least two years following completion of the Separation, except in limited circumstances. These limitations may restrict the ability of M&I to carry out its business objectives and to take advantage of opportunities such as acquisitions that could supplement or grow M&I’s business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 