ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a great deal of risk. Careful consideration should be made of the following factors as well as other information included in this annual report before deciding to purchase our common stock. You should pay particular attention to the fact that we conduct all of our operations in the PRC and are governed by a legal and regulatory environment that in some respects differs significantly from the environment that may prevail in other countries. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely by any or all of these risks. THE FOLLOWING MATTERS MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR PROSPECTS, FINANCIAL OR OTHERWISE. REFERENCE TO THIS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT IN THE CONTEXT OF A FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A STATEMENT THAT ANY ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS MAY CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE IN SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history. Our limited operating history and the early stage of development in the CCA industry and the scrap copper recycling industry in which we operate makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects. Although our revenues have grown rapidly, we cannot assure you that we will maintain our profitability or that we will not incur net losses in the future. We expect that our operating expenses will increase as we expand. Any significant failure to realize anticipated revenue growth could result in operating losses. - 21 - We will continue to encounter risks and difficulties in implementing our business model. We believe that our business model will allow us to become a leader in the CCA and the scrap copper recycling industries in which we operate. However, we can not assure you that our business model will be effective. We are susceptible to risks, including the failure to create awareness of our products, protect our reputation and develop customer loyalty, the inability to manage our expanding operations, the failure to maintain adequate control of our expenses, and the inability to anticipate and adapt to changing conditions in the markets in which we operate as well as the impact of any changes in government regulation, mergers and acquisitions involving our competitors, technological developments, and other significant competitive and market dynamics. If we are not successful in addressing any or all of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuation in the demand for and shipments of our products and changes in the prices of copper which directly affect the price of our products and may influence the demand for our products. Therefore, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations have been and will be impacted by the volume of such orders and shipments. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by the following factors, among others, such as variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in response to competitive factors, increases in raw material costs and other significant costs, increases in utility costs (particularly electricity) and interruptions in plant operations resulting from the interruption of raw material supplies and other factors. Our operating results are also impacted during the summer months, when production at our factory declines due to the hot weather in Southern China. Fluctuating copper prices impact our business and operating results. Copper prices, which have increased quite rapidly over the past several years, declined during 2008 but have been on the upswing in the recent years from its low during 2008. Such prices may continue to vary significantly in the future because the copper industry is highly volatile and cyclical in nature. This affects our business both positively and negatively. For example, since our products are a substitute for pure copper wire, higher copper prices usually increase demand for our CCA products, while lower copper prices can decrease demand for CCA products. Numerous factors, most of which are beyond our control, influence copper price. These factors include general economic conditions, industry capacity, utilization, import duties and other trade restrictions. We cannot predict copper prices in the future or the effect of fluctuations in the costs of copper on our future operating results. Consequently, fluctuations in copper prices can significantly affect our business and operating results. We may encounter substantial competition in our business and our failure to compete effectively may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. The CCA and scrap copper recycling industries are becoming increasingly competitive. Our competitors may have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, purchasing, manufacturing, personnel and other resources than we do. Furthermore, some of our competitors have manufacturing and sales forces that are geographically diversified, allowing them to reduce transportation expenses, tariff costs and currency fluctuations for certain customers in markets where their facilities are located. The principal elements of competition in the bimetallic industry are, in our opinion, pricing, product availability and quality. In order to succeed in the bimetallic industry, we must be competitive in our pricing, product availability and quality. If we fail to do so, we will not be able to compete effectively and will lose market share. In such case we may be forced to reduce our margins to retain or acquire that business, which could decrease our revenues or slow our future revenue growth and lead to a decline in profitability. Further, to the extent that, whether as a result of the increased cost of copper, the relative strength of the Chinese currency, shipping costs or other factors, we are not able to price our products competitively, our ability to sell our products in both the Chinese domestic and the international markets will suffer. - 22 - We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth. If our business and markets grow and develop it may be necessary for us to finance and manage expansion in an orderly fashion. In addition, we may face challenges in managing expanding product offerings. Such circumstances will increase demands on our existing management and facilities. Failure to manage this growth and expansion could interrupt or adversely affect our operations and cause production backlogs, longer product development time frames and administrative inefficiencies. Shortages or disruptions in the availability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business. We expect that raw materials of CCA and recycled copper will continue to account for a significant portion of our cost of goods sold in the future. The prices of raw materials fluctuate because of general economic conditions, global supply and demand and other factors causing monthly variations in the costs of our raw materials purchases. The macro-economic factors, together with labor and other business interruptions experienced by certain suppliers, have contributed to periodic shortages in the supply of raw materials, and such shortages may increase in the future. If we are unable to procure adequate supplies of raw material to meet our future production needs and customer demand, shortages could result in a material loss of customers and revenues and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, supply shortages or disruptions or the loss of suppliers may cause us to procure our raw materials from less cost effective sources and may have a material adverse affect on our business, revenues and results of operations. We depend on a few suppliers for a significant portion of our principal raw materials and we do not have any long-term supply contracts in excess of one year. Interruptions of production at our key suppliers may affect our results of operations and financial performance. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for most of the raw materials we use. Interruptions or shortages of supplies from our key suppliers of raw materials could disrupt production or impact our ability to increase production and sales. We do not have long-term or volume purchase agreements in excess of one year with most of our suppliers. Identifying and accessing alternative sources may increase our costs. Interruptions at our key suppliers could negatively impact our results of operations, financial performance and the price of our common stock. Due to increased volatility of raw material prices, the timing lag between the raw material purchase and product pricing can negatively impact our profitability. Volatility in the prices of raw materials, among other factors, may adversely impact our ability to accurately forecast demand and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We mitigate the impact of changing raw material prices by passing changes in prices to our customers by adjusting prices daily to reflect changes in raw material prices, as is customary in the industry. We may not be able to adjust our product prices rapidly enough in the short-term to recover the costs of increases in raw materials. Our future profitability may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to pass on higher raw material costs to our customers. Increases in raw materials prices will increase our need for working capital. As the prices of raw materials increase, our working capital requirements increase. Increases in our working capital requirements can materially adversely impact our results of operations, our cash flow and our available liquidity to fund other business needs. Furthermore, there is no assurance we would be able to finance additional working capital requirements or finance such working capital requirements on favorable terms. If we were unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Liquidity and Capital Resources” below. Increases in raw materials prices may increase credit and default risk with respect to our customers. Increases in the price of our products, as raw material prices rise, may place additional demands on the working capital and liquidity needs of our customers. Accordingly, our customers’ cash flow may be negatively impacted which may have an adverse affect on the timing and amount of payment on our accounts receivable, which would in turn, negatively affect our results of operations. - 23 - If the scrap copper recycling or CCA industry does not grow or grows at a slower speed than we project, our sales and profitability may be materially adversely affected. We derive most of our profits from sales of our products in China. The continued development of our business depends, in large part, on continued growth in the copper consumption market in China. Although China’s copper consumption market has grown rapidly in the past, it may not continue to grow at the same growth rate or at all in the future. Any reduced demand for our products, any downturn or other adverse changes in China’s copper consumption market or related industries could severely impact the profitability of our business. Potential environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. As a manufacturer, we are subject to various Chinese environmental laws and regulations on air emission, waste water discharge, solid wastes and noise. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental laws and regulations, we may not be able to comply with these regulations at all times as the Chinese environmental legal regime is evolving and becoming more stringent. Therefore, if the Chinese government imposes more stringent regulations in the future, we may have to incur additional and potentially substantial costs and expenses in order to comply with new regulations, which may negatively affect our results of operations. Further, no assurance can be given that all potential environmental liabilities have been identified or properly quantified or that any prior owner, operator, or tenant has not created an environmental condition unknown to us. If we fail to comply with any of the present or future environmental regulations in any material aspects, we may suffer from negative publicity and be subject to claims for damages that may require us to pay substantial fines or have our operations suspended or even be forced to cease operations. Key employees are essential to growing our business. Mr. Jianhua Zhu, Ms. Yaying Wang and Mr. Roy Yu, along with Ms. Zhu Junying, Mr. Yin Falong and Mr. Yu Niu, are essential to our ability to continue to grow our business. Each of these key employees has established relationships within the industries in which we operate. Each of these employees has agreed to non-solicitation and non-compete restrictions during the course of their employment with us, however, these restrictions only extend for a one year period from termination. Further, we do not maintain, or intend to maintain, key person life insurance for any of our officers or key employees. If any of them were to leave us, our growth strategy might be hindered, which could limit our ability to increase revenue. In addition, we face competition for attracting skilled personnel. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel to meet current and future needs, this could slow our ability to grow our business, which could result in a decrease in market share. We have derived a material portion of our revenues from a small group of customers. If we were to become dependent again upon a few customers, such dependency could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of our copper anode product offering in 2010, our customer base has become more concentrated since we currently produce and sell to a few large copper anode customers. For the year ended December 31, 2010 and each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, our five largest customers accounted for 36.5%, 14.5%, 20.2%, and 6.9% of our total sales, respectively, and the single largest customer accounted for 12.7%, 3.0%, 6.6%, and 1.6% of our total sales, respectively. As our customer base may change from year-to-year, during such years that the customer base is highly concentrated, the loss of, or reduction of our sales to, any of such major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may need additional financing, which may not be available on satisfactory terms or at all. Our capital requirements may be accelerated as a result of many factors, including timing of development activities, underestimates of budget items, unanticipated expenses or capital expenditures, future product opportunities with collaborators, future licensing opportunities and future business combinations. Consequently, we may need to seek additional debt or equity financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, and which may be dilutive to our stockholders. - 24 - We may seek to raise additional capital through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing debt securities, we may incur substantial interest obligations, may be required to pledge assets as security for the debt and may be constrained by restrictive financial and/or operational covenants. Debt financing would also be superior to our stockholders' interest in bankruptcy or liquidation. To the extent we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on unfavorable terms. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or to secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights could diminish. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. To date, we have one approved utility model patent and two patent applications filed with the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC. However, we cannot predict the degree and range of protection patents will afford us against competitors. Third parties may find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our proprietary technology. Third parties may attempt to obtain patents claiming aspects similar to our patent applications. If we need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings, such actions may be costly whether we win or lose. Our success also depends on the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, consultants, advisors, licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and inventions for which patents may be unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. If any of our intellectual property is disclosed, our value would be significantly impaired, and our business and competitive position would suffer. If we infringe the rights of third parties, we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages and compelled to defend against litigation. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs, and may have to obtain licenses (which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all), redesign our products or processes, stop using the subject matter claimed in the asserted patents, pay damages, or defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose. All of the above could result in a substantial diversion of valuable management resources. We believe we have taken reasonable steps, including comprehensive internal and external prior patent searches, to ensure we have freedom to operate and that our development and commercialization efforts can be carried out as planned without infringing others’ proprietary rights. However, we cannot guarantee that no third party patent has been filed or will be filed that may contain subject matter of relevance to our development, causing a third party patent holder to claim infringement. Resolving such issues has traditionally resulted, and could in our case result, in lengthy and costly legal proceedings, the outcome of which cannot be predicted accurately. One shareholder owns a large percentage of our outstanding stock and could significantly influence the outcome of our corporate matters. Currently, Magnify Wealth beneficially owns approximately 45.5% of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Zhu, our Chairman and CEO, is the sole director of Magnify Wealth. As the sole director of Magnify Wealth, Mr. Zhu has the sole power to vote the shares of our common stock owned by Magnify Wealth, and as a result, is able to exercise significant influence over all matters that require us to obtain shareholder approval, including the election of directors to our board and approval of significant corporate transactions that we may consider, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. Additionally, pursuant to the Share Transfer Agreement, Mr. Zhu has an option that vests over time, the conditions of which have been met as of the date herewith, allowing Mr. Zhu to purchase up to 3,000 shares of Magnify Wealth from Mr. Chu (the “Option Shares”). At such time as Mr. Zhu exercises and acquires, all of the Option Shares, he will own shares representing 81.9% of Magnify Wealth’s issued and outstanding shares. As of March 23, 2010, Mr. Zhu was entitled to acquire 50% of the Option Shares, which equals 1,500 shares. Once the Option Shares are exercised, Mr. Zhu will then also have a controlling equity interest in Magnify Wealth. This concentration of ownership in our shares by Magnify Wealth will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. - 25 - If we are unable to maintain appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. As a public company, we have significant additional requirements for enhanced financial reporting and internal controls. We will be required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. We cannot assure you that we will not, in the future, identify areas requiring improvement in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that the measures we will take to remediate any areas in need of improvement will be successful or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future as we continue our growth. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley and meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. We may incur significant increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect the implementation of these new rules and regulations to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We continue to evaluate and monitor our costs to implement these rules and regulations and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Due to lower profit margins associated with the sale of refined copper products, we expect our overall gross profit margin to decline as we continue the capacity expansion in the scrap copper refinery segment. Our gross margin is affected by our product mix. As a result of significant costs associated with production in our scrap recycling business, copper anode and rod contribute a lower gross profit margin compared to our finished wire products. As we continue to expand the capacity of our scrap copper refineries, we expect that as the sales of the refined copper products increases over time, there will be a decline in our gross margin, unless we are able to add additional processing capacity. - 26 - Risks Associated With Doing Business In China There are substantial risks associated with doing business in China, as set forth in the following risk factors. Our operations and assets in China are subject to significant political and economic uncertainties. Changes in PRC laws and regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under our current leadership, the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the Chinese government will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. We derive a substantial portion of our sales from China and a slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our services and our business. Substantially all of our sales are generated from China. We anticipate that sales of our products in China will continue to represent a substantial proportion of our total sales in the near future. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. The industry which we are involved in the PRC is relatively new and growing, but we do not know how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the PRC economy which may affect demand for our products. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC may materially reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business. Currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency exchange may adversely affect our business, including limiting our ability to convert Chinese Renminbi into foreign currencies and, if Chinese Renminbi were to decline in value, reducing our revenue in U.S. dollar terms. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our operations in China use their local currency as their functional currencies. Substantially all of our revenue and expenses are in Chinese Renminbi. We are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies. For example, the value of the Renminbi depends to a large extent on Chinese government policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments, as well as supply and demand in the local market. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to the U.S. dollar had generally been stable and the Renminbi had appreciated slightly against the U.S. dollar. However, on July 21, 2005, the Chinese government changed its policy of pegging the value of Chinese Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, Chinese Renminbi may fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. It is possible that the Chinese government could adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuation of Chinese Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. We can offer no assurance that Chinese Renminbi will be stable against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency. The income statements of our operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currencies denominated transactions results in reduced revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. Similarly, to the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in increased revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars in consolidation. If there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of the foreign subsidiaries’ financial statements into U.S. dollars will lead to a translation gain or loss which is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. In addition, we have certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant entity’s functional currency. Changes in the functional currency value of these assets and liabilities create fluctuations that will lead to a transaction gain or loss. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. The availability and effectiveness of any hedging transaction may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exchange rate risks. - 27 - The application of PRC regulations relating to the overseas listing of PRC domestic companies is uncertain, and we may be subject to penalties for failing to request approval of the PRC authorities prior to listing our shares in the U.S. On August 8, 2006, six PRC government agencies, namely, MOFCOM, SAIC, CSRC, SAFE, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, and the State Administration for Taxation, jointly issued the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors (the “New M&A Rules”), which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rules purport, among other things, to require offshore “special purpose vehicles”, that are (1) formed for the purpose of overseas listing of the equity interests of PRC companies via acquisition and (2) are controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies and/or PRC individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of their securities on overseas stock exchanges. On September 21, 2006, pursuant to the New M&A Rules and other PRC Laws, the CSRC published on its official website relevant guidance with respect to the listing and trading of PRC domestic enterprises’ securities on overseas stock exchanges (the “Related Clarifications”), including a list of application materials regarding the listing on overseas stock exchange by special purpose vehicles. Based on our understanding of current PRC Laws and as advised by our PRC counsel, because (i) the CSRC currently has not issued any definitive rule or official interpretation concerning whether our offering is subject to the New M&A Rules and Related Clarifications; (ii) we were and are not a special purpose vehicle formed or controlled by PRC individuals; and (iii) conversion of Lihua Electron and Lihua Copper from a joint venture to a wholly foreign owned enterprise was and is not subject to the New M&A Rules in accordance with Rule 55 of the New M&A Rules and Guidance Manual on Administration of Entry of Foreign Investment issued by the Department of Foreign Investment Administration of the MOFCOM in December 2008, we were and are not required to obtain the approval of CSRC under the New M&A Rules in connection with this offering. However, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforcement of these rules, and CSRC has yet to promulgate any written provisions or formally to declare or state whether the overseas listing of a PRC-related company structured similar to ours is subject to the approval of CSRC. Any violation of these rules could result in fines and other penalties on our operations in China, restrictions or limitations on remitting dividends outside of China, and other forms of sanctions that may cause a material and adverse effect to our business, operations and financial conditions. The new mergers and acquisitions regulations also established additional procedures and requirements that are expected to make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise that owns well-known trademarks or China’s traditional brands. We may grow our business in part by acquiring other businesses. Complying with the requirements of the new mergers and acquisitions regulations in completing this type of transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including CSRC approval, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. We have granted stock options to one of our directors who is a PRC citizen and, our CEO, Mr. Zhu, has options to purchase shares in our majority shareholder, Magnify Wealth, which may require registration with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to issue equity compensation to our directors and employees and other parties who are PRC citizens or residents under PRC law. On April 6, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, also know as “Circular 78.” It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. Further, it is also not clear whether Circular 78 would require SAFE approval for stock options in Magnify Wealth that are granted to Mr. Zhu. For any equity compensation plan which is so covered and is adopted by a non-PRC listed company after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the Lihua International, Inc. 2009 Onmibus Securities & Incentive Plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We have adopted an equity compensation plan and have begun to make option grants to some of our directors, one of which is a PRC citizen. Circular 78 may require PRC citizens who receive option grants to register with SAFE. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans, or the option grant from Magnify Wealth to Mr. Zhu are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and recipients of such options to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our ability to compensate our employees and directors through equity compensation would be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected. - 28 - PRC SAFE Regulations regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents have undertaken continuous changes which may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could adversely affect our business. Recent regulations promulgated by SAFE regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents have undergone a number of changes which may increase the administrative burden we face. The failure by our stockholders and affiliates who are PRC residents , including Mr. Zhu, who has sole voting power with respect to shares held by our majority shareholder, Magnify Wealth, to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident stockholders to liability under PRC law. In 2005, SAFE promulgated regulations in the form of public notices, which require registrations with, and approval from, SAFE on direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC resident individuals. The SAFE regulations require that if an offshore company directly or indirectly formed by or controlled by PRC resident individuals, known as “SPC,” intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the SAFE. Without registration, the PRC entity cannot remit any of its profits out of the PRC as dividends or otherwise. This could have a material adverse effect on us given that we expect to be a publicly listed company in the U.S. Because our principal assets are located outside of the United States and with the exception of one director, our directors and all our officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights based on the United States Federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors in the United States or to enforce judgments of United States courts against us or them in the PRC. With the exception of one director, all of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. In addition, our operating subsidiaries are located in the PRC and all of their assets are located outside of the United States. China does not have a treaty with United States providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the United States Federal securities laws against us in the courts of either the United States or the PRC and, even if civil judgments are obtained in courts of the United States, to enforce such judgments in PRC courts. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and directors of criminal penalties, under the United States Federal securities laws or otherwise. We may have limited legal recourse under PRC law if disputes arise under our contracts with third parties. The Chinese government has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, their experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. If our new business ventures are unsuccessful, or other adverse circumstances arise from these transactions, we face the risk that the parties to these ventures may seek ways to terminate the transactions, or, may hinder or prevent us from accessing important information regarding the financial and business operations of these acquired companies. The resolution of these matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to specific performance, or to seek an injunction under PRC law, in either of these cases, are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although legislation in China over the past 30 years has significantly improved the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment and contractual arrangements in China, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties, which could limit the legal protection available to us, and foreign investors, including you. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital and could have a material adverse impact on our operations. - 29 - We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business and requires that we maintain adequate financial records and internal controls to prevent such prohibited payments. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. Although we inform our personnel that such practices are illegal, we can not assure you that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties. Due to various restrictions under PRC laws on the distribution of dividends by our PRC operating companies, we may not be able to pay dividends to our stockholders. The Wholly-Foreign Owned Enterprise Law (1986), as amended and The Wholly-Foreign Owned Enterprise Law Implementing Rules (1990), as amended and the Company Law of the PRC (2006) contain the principal regulations governing dividend distributions by wholly foreign owned enterprises. Under these regulations, wholly foreign owned enterprises, such as Lihua Electron and Lihua Copper, may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Additionally, Lihua Electron and Lihua Copper are required to set aside a certain amount of their accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends except in the event of liquidation and cannot be used for working capital purposes. The PRC government also imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of the PRC. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency for the payment of dividends from the profits of Lihua Electron and Lihua Copper. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If we or our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. Changes in foreign exchange regulations in the PRC may affect our ability to pay dividends in foreign currency or conduct other foreign exchange business. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, the Chinese currency, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. The restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in RMB to make dividends or other payments in United States dollars. The PRC government strictly regulates conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Over the years, foreign exchange regulations in the PRC have significantly reduced the government’s control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts. In the PRC, SAFE regulates the conversion of the RMB into foreign currencies. Pursuant to applicable PRC laws and regulations, foreign invested enterprises incorporated in the PRC are required to apply for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates.” Currently, conversion within the scope of the “current account” (e.g. remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, etc.) can be effected without requiring the approval of SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account” (e.g. for capital items such as direct investments, loans, securities, etc.) still requires the approval of SAFE. In addition, failure to obtain approval from SAFE for currency conversion on the capital account may adversely impact our capital expenditure plans and our ability to expand in accordance with our desired objectives. - 30 - The PRC government also may at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining foreign currency, we may be unable to pay dividends or meet obligations that may be incurred in the future that require payment in foreign currency. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. We are dependent on our relationship with the local government in the province in which we operate our business. Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may have an adverse effect on profitability. These factors have led to the adoption by Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. The PRC historically has been deficient in Western style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as in modern banking, and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other applicable laws, rules and regulations. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a materially adverse effect on our business and the public announcement of such deficiencies could adversely impact our stock price. It may be difficult to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights under PRC law. Intellectual property rights in China are still developing, and there are uncertainties involved in the protection and the enforcement of such rights. We will need to pay special attention to protecting our intellectual property and trade secrets. Failure to do so could lead to the loss of a competitive advantage that could not be compensated by a damages award. - 31 - Under PRC law, we are required to obtain permits and business licenses, and our failure to do so would adversely impact our ability to conduct business in China. We hold various permits, business licenses, and approvals authorizing our operations and activities, which are subject to periodic review and reassessment by the Chinese authorities. Standards of compliance necessary to pass such reviews change from time to time and differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, leading to a degree of uncertainty. If renewals, or new permits, business licenses or approvals required in connection with existing or new facilities or activities, are not granted or are delayed, or if existing permits, business licenses or approvals are revoked or substantially modified, we will suffer a material adverse effect. If new standards are applied to renewals or new applications, it could prove costly to us to meet any new level of compliance. If our land use rights are revoked, we would have no operational capabilities. Under Chinese law land is owned by the state or rural collective economic organizations. The state issues to tenants the rights to use property. Use rights can be revoked and the tenants forced to vacate at any time when redevelopment of the land is in the public interest. The public interest rationale is interpreted quite broadly and the process of land appropriation may be less than transparent. Each of our two operating subsidiaries rely on these land use rights as the cornerstone of their operations, and the loss of such rights would have a material adverse effect on our company. Because we may not be able to obtain business insurance in the PRC, we may not be protected from risks that are customarily covered by insurance in the United States. Business insurance is not readily available in the PRC. To the extent that we suffer a loss of a type which would normally be covered by insurance in the United States, such as product liability and general liability insurance, we would incur significant expenses in both defending any action and in paying any claims that result from a settlement or judgment. We are subject to the environmental protection law of China. Our manufacturing process may produce by-products such as effluent, gases and noise, which are harmful to the environment. We are subject to multiple laws governing environmental protection, such as “The Law on Environmental Protection in the PRC” and “The Law on Prevention of Effluent Pollution in the PRC,” as well as standards set by the relevant governmental authorities determining the classification of different wastes and proper disposal. We have properly attained a waste disposal permit for our manufacturing facility, which details the types and concentration of effluents and gases allowed for disposal. China is experiencing substantial problems with environmental pollution. Accordingly, it is likely that the national, provincial and local governmental agencies will adopt stricter pollution controls. There can be no assurance that future changes in environmental laws and regulations will not impose costly compliance requirements on us or otherwise subject us to future liabilities. Our profitability may be adversely affected if additional or modified environmental control regulations are imposed upon us. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another widespread public health problem, could adversely affect our operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in the PRC, where all of our revenue is derived, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including quarantines or closures of some of our offices that could leave us without many employees to conduct our business which would materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. - 32 - Risks Related to the Common Stock Techniques Employed by Manipulative Short Sellers in Chinese Small Cap Stocks May Drive Down the Market Price of Our Common Stock Short selling is the practice of selling securities that the seller does not own but rather has, supposedly, borrowed from a third party with the intention of buying identical securities back at a later date to return to the lender. The short seller hopes to profit from a decline in the value of the securities between the sale of the borrowed securities and the purchase of the replacement shares, as the short seller expects to pay less in that purchase than it received in the sale. As it is therefore in the short seller’s best interests for the price of the stock to decline, many short sellers (sometime known as “disclosed shorts”) publish, or arrange for the publication of, negative opinions regarding the relevant issuer and its business prospects in order to create negative market momentum and generate profits for themselves after selling a stock short. While traditionally these disclosed shorts were limited in their ability to access mainstream business media or to otherwise create negative market rumors, the rise of the Internet and technological advancements regarding document creation, videotaping and publication by weblog (“blogging”) have allowed many disclosed shorts to publicly attack a company’s credibility, strategy and veracity by means of so-called research reports that mimic the type of investment analysis performed by large Wall Street firm and independent research analysts. These short attacks have, in the past, led to selling of shares in the market, on occasion in large scale and broad base. Issuers with business operations based in the PRC and who have limited trading volumes and are susceptible to higher volatility levels than U.S. domestic large-cap stocks, can be particularly vulnerable to such short attacks. These short seller publications are not regulated by any governmental, self-regulatory organization or other official authority in the U.S., are not subject to the certification requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation AC (Regulation Analyst Certification) and, accordingly, the opinions they express may be based on distortions of actual facts or, in some cases, fabrications of facts. In light of the limited risks involved in publishing such information, and the enormous profit that can be made from running just one successful short attack, unless the short sellers become subject to significant penalties, it is more likely than not that disclosed shorts will continue to issue such reports. While we intend to strongly defend our public filings against any such short seller attacks, oftentimes we are constrained, either by principles of freedom of speech, applicable state law (often called “Anti-SLAPP statutes”), or issues of commercial confidentiality, in the manner in which we can proceed against the relevant short seller. You should be aware that in light of the relative freedom to operate that such persons enjoy – oftentimes blogging from outside the U.S. with little or no assets or identity requirements – should we be targeted for such an attack, our stock will likely suffer from a temporary, or possibly long term, decline in market price should the rumors created not be dismissed by market participants. Our short interest has grown substantially over the past eight months from approximately 777,000 shares on June 30, 2010, or approximately 5.1% of our public float on that date, to approximately 3,160,000 shares on February 28, 2011, representing approximately 20.1% of our public float on June 30, 2010. Accordingly, the price and trading volume of our stock is vulnerable to extreme fluctuations. We have been the target of internet blogs in the past, such as one particular series of articles published by a short seller in October and November 2009, and strewn with inaccurate facts and misleading allegations against the Company. Although the Company responded to these allegations, the closing price of one share of the Company’s common stock fell from $8.77 on October 16, 2009, prior to the release of this series of negative articles, to a closing price of $6.26 on October 29, 2009. There are predictions that 2011 will bring more short seller attacks against PRC-based companies. Although we will strive to respond quickly and effectively to these types of inaccurate and misleading allegations, the price of our stock remains vulnerable to the continuing attacks by this and any other short seller. The market price for our securities may be subject to wide fluctuations. The securities of a number of Chinese companies and companies with substantial operations in China have experienced wide fluctuations in their stock price. Among the factors that could affect the price of our common stock are risk factors described in this section and other factors, including: · announcements of competitive developments, by our competitors; · regulatory developments of our industry affecting us, our customers or our competitors; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · failure of our quarterly financial and operating results to meet market expectations or failure to meet our previously announced guidance, if any; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of our competitors; · additions or departures of our executive officers and other key personnel; · announcements regarding intellectual property litigation (or potential litigation) involving us or any of our directors and officers; · fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi; and · release or expiration of the underwriters’ post-offering lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding common stock. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular industries or companies. For example, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. Starting in September 2008, the volatility and disruption have reached extreme levels, developing into a global crisis. As a result, stock prices of a broad range of companies worldwide, whether or not they are related to financial services, have declined significantly. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our securities. We have never paid cash dividends and are not likely to do so in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future but will review this policy as circumstances dictate. - 33 - We may need additional capital and may sell additional securities or other equity securities or incur indebtedness, which could result in additional dilution to our shareholders or increase our debt service obligations. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our cash resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities or equity-linked debt securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial future sales of our securities in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our securities to decline. Additional sales of our securities in the public market or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our securities to decline. We currently have 29,945,742 shares of our common stock outstanding. Of that amount, 13,194,583 shares of Common stock are freely transferable without restriction upon resale, and 13,725,000 shares of Common stock will be available for sale upon the expiration of varying lock-up periods some of which are subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, we may grant or sell additional options, restricted shares or other share-based awards in the future under our share incentive plan to our management, employees and other persons, the settlement and sale of which may further dilute our shares and drive down the price of our securities. As of March 9, 2011 we had options outstanding to purchase an aggregate of 130,000 shares of our common stock, of which 97,500 are currently exercisable and warrants to purchase 589,120 shares of common stock. To the extent that the options and warrants are exercised, they may be exercised at prices below the price of our shares of common stock on the public market, resulting in a significant number of shares entering the public market and the dilution of our securities. NASDAQ may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We cannot assure you that our securities will meet the continued listing requirements be listed on NASDAQ in the future. If NASDAQ delists our common stock from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. If our shares of common stock become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our shares of common stock have a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock become subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. - 34 - 