Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects. Risks Related to the Extensive Regulation of our Business If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements governing our university, we could incur significant monetary liabilities, fines and penalties, including loss of access to federal student loans and grants for our students, on which we are substantially dependent. For our fiscal year ended May 31, 2012, we derived approximately 85% of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from federal student financial aid programs, known as Title IV programs, administered by the United States Department of Education, or the Department of Education. A significant percentage of our students rely on the availability of Title IV program funds to finance their cost of attending NAU. To participate in Title IV programs, a postsecondary institution must be authorized by the appropriate state education agency or agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the Department of Education, and be certified as an eligible institution by the Department of Education. In addition, NAU’s operations and programs are regulated by other state education agencies and additional accrediting commissions. We are subject to extensive regulation by the education agencies of multiple states, the Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, or the Higher Learning Commission, which is our institutional accrediting commission, various specialized accrediting commissions, and the Department of Education. These regulatory requirements cover the vast majority of our operations, including our educational programs, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, student recruiting and admissions, and financial operations. These regulatory requirements also affect our ability to open additional schools and locations, add new educational programs, change existing educational programs and change our ownership structure. The agencies and commissions that regulate our operations periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. Regulatory requirements are not always precise and clear, and regulatory agencies may sometimes disagree with the way we interpret or apply these requirements. Any misinterpretation by us of regulatory requirements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulatory requirements, we could suffer financial penalties, limitations on our operations, loss of accreditation, termination of or limitations on our ability to grant degrees and certificates, or limitations on or termination of our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, each of which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are charged with regulatory violations, our reputation could be damaged, which could have a negative impact on our enrollments and materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict with certainty how all of these regulatory requirements will be applied, or whether we will be able to comply with all of the applicable requirements in the future. -41- Table of Contents If we lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs for any reason, we would experience a dramatic and adverse decline in revenue, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. Furthermore, we would be unable to continue our business as it currently is conducted, which would be expected to have a material effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. Congress may revise the laws governing Title IV programs or reduce funding for those programs and the Department of Education may revise its regulations administering Title IV programs, any of which could reduce our enrollment and revenue and increase costs of operations. Political and budgetary concerns significantly affect Title IV programs. The Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, which is a federal law that governs Title IV programs, must be periodically reauthorized by Congress and was most recently reauthorized in August 2008. In October 2009, the Department of Education published final regulations implementing statutory changes from the August 2008 reauthorization relating to, among other things, the “90/10” Rule, student eligibility, disclosure requirements, the relationships between schools and lenders of private and Title IV loans, and the approval and oversight of accrediting agencies. These regulations took effect on July 1, 2010. Congress must determine funding levels for Title IV programs on an annual basis and can change the laws governing Title IV programs at any time. For example, on June 14, 2012, the U.S. Senate Committee on Appropriations passed legislation that, if ultimately enacted into law, would prohibit postsecondary educational institutions, including us, from using federal funds for marketing, advertising and recruiting expenses. Apart from Title IV programs, eligible veterans and military personnel may receive educational benefits for the pursuit of higher education. A reduction in federal funding levels for Title IV programs, or for programs providing educational benefits to veterans and military personnel, could reduce the ability of some students to finance their education. We cannot predict with certainty the nature of any new regulatory requirements, other future revisions to the law or funding levels for Title IV programs. Because a significant percentage of our revenue is and is expected to be derived from Title IV programs, any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding or the ability of us or our students to participate in Title IV programs could have a material effect on our enrollments, business, financial condition and results of operations. Congressional action also may require us to modify our practices in ways that could increase administrative costs and reduce profit margins, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Congress significantly reduced the amount of available Title IV program funding, we would attempt to arrange for alternative sources of financial aid for our students, such as private sources. We cannot provide assurance that one or more private organizations would be willing or able to provide sufficient loans to students attending one of our schools or programs, or that the interest rate and other terms of such loans would be as favorable as Title IV program loans or acceptable to our students or that such private sources would be adequate to replace the full amount of the reduction in Title IV program funding. Therefore, even if some form of private financing sources become available, our enrollment could be materially affected. In addition, private organizations could require us to guarantee all or part of this assistance resulting in additional costs to us. If we were to provide more direct financial assistance to our students, we would assume increased credit risks and incur additional costs, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On October 29, 2010, following a negotiated rulemaking process that had commenced in May 2009, the Department published final regulations (the “Final Rules”) pertaining to a number of Title IV program integrity issues. Negotiated rulemaking is a process whereby the Department of Education consults with members of the postsecondary education community to identify issues of concern and attempts to agree on proposed regulatory revisions to address those issues before the Department of Education formally proposes any regulations. If the Department of Education and negotiators cannot reach consensus on the entire package of draft regulations, the Department of Education is authorized to propose regulations without being bound by any agreements made in the negotiation process. The Final Rules became effective July 1, 2011. On June 13, 2011, the Department of Education published final regulations defining the meaning of “gainful employment” for the purpose of determining whether certain educational programs comply with the Title IV requirement of preparing students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation, which were to be July 1, 2012 (the “Gainful Employment Rule”). However, on June 30, 2012, a Federal District Court vacated the Gainful Employment Rule. As a result, the Gainful Employment Rule is not presently in effect pending the outcome of the underlying litigation and any additional actions by the Department of Education. We are unable to speculate on the outcome of this litigation. We cannot predict with certainty the impact of the Final Rules, and the Gainful Employment Rule to the extent it is reinstated in the future, on our operations, nor can we predict the timing and impact of other legislative or regulatory changes. Compliance with these and other new and changing regulations could reduce our enrollments, increase our cost of doing business, and have a material effect on our business. -42- Table of Contents On September 27, 2011, the Department of Education published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“NPRM”) to amend regulations for institutional eligibility under the Higher Education Act and to streamline the application and approval process for new programs, as required by the Gainful Employment Rule. The public comment period ended on November 14, 2011, and the Department of Education has not yet published final regulations. In light of the Federal District Court decision of June 30, 2012 that vacated the Gainful Employment Rule, it is unclear whether or when the Department of Education will publish such final regulations. On October 26, 2011, the Department of Education announced the establishment of a negotiated rulemaking panel regarding Teacher Preparation and TEACH Grant Programs. On April 12, 2012, after meeting in January, February and April 2012, participants acknowledged that they were unlikely to reach consensus on a set of proposals. As a result, the Department of Education can issue proposed regulations without regard to any compromises reached during the negotiated rulemaking. The Department of Education’s publication of a proposed rule in the Federal Register following the failure of the negotiated rulemaking committee to reach consensus remains pending. On October 28, 2011, the Department of Education announced the establishment of another negotiated rulemaking panel to consider certain proposed changes to regulations governing Title IV student loan programs. This rulemaking panel met in January, February and March 2012 to consider changes to certain regulations in those areas. At its final meeting in March 2012, the panel reached consensus on changes to regulations to implement a “Pay As You Earn” loan repayment initiative, to incorporate statutory changes in the income-based repayment plan provisions, to make certain improvements in the administration of the income-based repayment and income-contingent repayment plans, and to overhaul the process for loan discharges based on total and permanent disability of the borrower. On July 17, 2012, the Department of Education published a proposed rule in the Federal Register reflecting the consensus of the negotiated rulemaking committee for which the public comment period expires on August 16, 2012. On May 1, 2012, the Department of Education announced its intention to establish an additional negotiated rulemaking committee to develop additional regulations to prevent fraud and otherwise ensure proper use of Title IV program funds. The Department of Education held public hearings on May 23 and 31, 2012 at which interested parties presented issues for consideration by the rulemaking committee, whose establishment remains pending. Compliance with the Final Rules, the Gainful Employment Rule to the extent it is reinstated in the future, any regulations that are promulgated through the current or future negotiated rulemaking processes, other legislation promulgated by Congress, any executive orders issued by the executive branch, and other new and changing regulations and regulatory agency measures could reduce our enrollments, increase our cost of doing business, and have a material effect on our business. We are unable to predict the timing or the proposed or final form of any regulations that the Department of Education ultimately may adopt and the impact of such regulations on our business. Congress has recently commenced an examination of the for-profit education sector that could result in legislation or further Department of Education rulemaking restricting Title IV program participation by proprietary schools in a manner that could materially affect our business. -43- Table of Contents Recently, Congress has placed increased focus on the role that for-profit educational institutions play in higher education. Congress has been holding various hearings on and requesting the GAO to conduct reviews of the proprietary education sector. As part of this investigation, on August 5, 2010, the HELP Committee requested information from 30 proprietary educational institutions, including us, in connection with the HELP Committee’s ongoing hearings relating to for–profit colleges receiving Title IV student financial aid. The request sought information to more accurately understand how we use Federal resources, including how we recruit and enroll students, set program price or tuition, determine financial aid including private or institutional loans, track attendance, handle withdrawal of students and return of Title IV dollars and manage compliance with the requirement that no more than 90% of revenues come from Title IV dollars. Most recently, on July 30, 2012, the HELP Committee released a report entitled “For Profit Higher Education: The Failure to Safeguard the Federal Investment and Ensure Student Success,” analyzing the information submitted by all 30 of the companies from which it requested information. The findings and recommendations contained in this report could negatively impact our reputation and materially affect our business. Congress and the executive branch have also focused on educational benefits for military personnel and veterans. On April 27, 2012, in response to alleged abusive recruiting practices by for-profit institutions, President Obama signed an executive order aimed at providing military personnel, veterans and their family members with the resources they need to make an informed decision about their educational prospects and other protections (the “Executive Order”). The Executive Order requires the Department of Education, the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to establish and implement “Principles of Excellence” to apply to educational institutions receiving funding from federal military and veterans educational benefits programs. The goals of the Principles of Excellence are broadly stated in the Executive Order and relate to disclosures on costs and amounts of costs covered by federal educational benefits, marketing standards, state authorization, accreditation approvals, standard institutional refund policies, educational plans and academic and financial advising. Educational institutions are required to indicate whether or not they intend to comply with these Principles of Excellence by response to the Department of Veterans Affairs. This response was initially required by June 30, 2012, but the deadline was subsequently extended to August 1, 2012. We have responded that we intend to comply with the Principles of Excellence, as veterans and service members are valued constituencies within our student and prospective student populations. See “Regulatory Matters — Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs — Congressional Action and Changes in Department of Education Regulations.” We cannot predict whether, or the extent to which, these hearings and review will result in legislation or further rulemaking affecting our participation in Title IV programs. To the extent that any laws or regulations are adopted that limit our participation in Title IV programs or the amount of student financial aid for which the students at our institutions are eligible, our enrollments, revenues and results of operation could be materially affected. Recent statutory and regulatory changes substantially increased reporting and other requirements that could impair our reputation and adversely affect our enrollments. Our failure to comply with or accurately interpret pertinent disclosure requirements may subject us to penalties and other sanctions. The most recent reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, in August 2008, contains numerous revisions to the requirements governing Title IV programs. Among other things, institutions participating in Title IV programs are subject to extensive additional reporting and disclosure requirements. The Final Rules published by the Department of Education in October 2010 that became effective July 1, 2011 require a number of specific disclosures to students and prospective students regarding our educational programs. Such disclosures include the occupations that NAU’s educational programs prepare students to enter upon completing their program, total program costs and median student debt incurred for our programs, along with program completion and placement rates for our programs. Any failure by us to properly interpret these new requirements could subject us to limitation, suspension or termination of our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, the imposition of conditions on our participation in Title IV programs, monetary liabilities, fines and penalties or other sanctions imposed by the Department of Education, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The prospect of such sanctions may cause us to conservatively interpret the new reporting requirements of Title IV programs by the Department of Education, which may limit our flexibility in operating our business. If any of the education regulatory agencies or commissions that regulate us do not approve or delay any required approvals of transactions involving a change of control, our ability to operate or participate in Title IV programs may be impaired. -44- Table of Contents If we experience a change in control under the standards of the Department of Education, the Higher Learning Commission, any applicable state educational licensing agency, or any specialized accrediting agency commission, we must notify or seek the approval of each such agency. These agencies do not have uniform criteria for what constitutes a change in control. Transactions or events that typically constitute a change in control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of the voting stock of an institution or its parent company, and significant changes in the composition of the board of directors of an institution or its parent company. Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in receiving, approval of any change in control from the Department of Education, the Higher Learning Commission or applicable state educational licensing agencies could impair our ability to operate or participate in Title IV programs, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to obtain, or a delay in receiving, approval of any change in control from any state in which we are currently licensed or authorized, or from any of our specialized accrediting commissions, could require us to suspend our activities in that state or suspend offering the applicable programs until we receive the required approval, or could otherwise impair our operations. The potential adverse effects of a change in control could influence future decisions by us and our stockholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance or redemption of our stock, which could discourage bids for shares of our stock your shares of our stock and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. Our failure to satisfy the conditions imposed by the Higher Learning Commission with respect to its prior approval of the transaction with Dlorah could result in the loss of NAU’s accreditation by the Higher Learning Commission. The Higher Learning Commission’s approval of the November 2009 transaction whereby Dlorah became our wholly owned subsidiary was subject to several conditions, consistent with the Higher Learning Commission’s change of ownership procedures and requirements. These conditions include: (a) that NAU file a progress report by week six of each semester providing enrollment information by degree program and by location; (b) that NAU file a contingency report if there is any decision to offer a follow-up or secondary stock offering at least 90 days prior to such an offering so that the Higher Learning Commission may assess whether there may be a subsequent change of control under the Higher Learning Commission’s policies; (c) that NAU undergo an evaluation within six months of the closing of our transaction with Dlorah focused on ascertaining the appropriateness of the approval of the change of control and of NAU’s compliance with any commitments made in the change of control application as well as with the applicable accreditation criteria and eligibility requirements; and (d) that a stipulation be added to the affiliation status of NAU limiting the programs at the Master’s degree level to existing programs and requiring NAU to seek the Higher Learning Commission’s approval for the addition of any new Master’s degrees. Any failure on our part to satisfy these conditions may result in the loss of our accreditation by the Higher Learning Commission, which would prevent us from participating in Title IV programs and could cause a significant decline in our student enrollments. We cannot offer new programs, expand our operations into certain states or acquire additional schools if such actions are not approved by the applicable regulatory and accrediting agencies, and we may have to repay Title IV funds disbursed to students enrolled in any such programs, schools or states if we do not obtain prior approval. Our expansion plans include offering new educational programs, expanding operations in additional states and potentially acquiring existing schools from other companies. If we are unable to obtain the necessary approvals for such new programs, operations or acquisitions from the Department of Education, the Higher Learning Commission or any applicable state educational licensing agency or accrediting commission, or if we are unable to obtain such approvals in a timely manner, our ability to consummate the planned actions and provide Title IV program funds to any affected students would be impaired, which could have a material effect on our expansion plans and growth. If we were to determine erroneously that any such action did not need approval or that we had obtained all required approvals, including all required approvals for each of our current programs and locations, we could be liable for repayment of Title IV program funds provided to students in that program or at that location. If the Department of Education does not recertify us to continue participating in Title IV programs, our students would lose their access to Title IV program funds, or we could be recertified but required to accept significant limitations as a condition of our continued participation in Title IV programs. -45- Table of Contents The Department of Education certification to participate in Title IV programs lasts a maximum of six years, and institutions are required to seek recertification from the Department of Education on a regular basis to continue their participation in Title IV programs. An institution must also apply for recertification by the Department of Education if it undergoes a change in control, as defined by Department of Education regulations, and may be subject to similar review if it expands its operations or educational programs in certain ways. Generally, the recertification process includes a review by the Department of Education of the institution’s educational programs and locations, administrative capability, financial responsibility and other oversight categories. The Department of Education could limit, suspend or terminate an institution’s participation in Title IV programs for violations of the Higher Education Act or Title IV regulations. Our current certification to participate in the Title IV programs, granted in connection with our transaction with Dlorah, was effective in January 2010 and expires December 31, 2012. There can be no assurance that the Department of Education will recertify us after our current period of certification or that it would not impose restrictions in connection with any such recertification. In addition, the Department of Education may take emergency action to suspend our certification without advance notice if it receives reliable information that we are violating Title IV requirements and it determines that immediate action is necessary to prevent misuse of Title IV funds. If the Department of Education does not renew or withdraws our certification to participate in Title IV programs at any time, our students would no longer be able to receive Title IV program funds. Similarly, the Department of Education could renew our certification, but restrict or delay our students’ receipt of Title IV funds, limit the number of students to whom it could disburse such funds or impose other restrictions. Any of these outcomes could have a material effect on NAU’s enrollments and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We would lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs if we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation, and our student enrollments could decline if we fail to maintain any of our accreditations or approvals. An institution must be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the Department of Education to participate in Title IV programs. We have been granted institutional accreditation by the Higher Learning Commission, which is a regional accrediting commission recognized by the Department of Education. To remain accredited, we must continuously meet accreditation standards relating to, among other things, performance, governance, institutional integrity, educational quality, faculty, administrative capability, resources and financial stability. Our accreditation was last reaffirmed by the Higher Learning Commission in 2008 for the maximum term of ten years. In connection with our change of control request related to our November 2009 merger with Camden, a three-person team from the Higher Learning Commission visited the university’s central administration offices in Rapid City, South Dakota. The change of control request was approved with the next comprehensive evaluation visit scheduled for 2014-15. If we fail to satisfy any of the Higher Learning Commission’s standards, including a failure to satisfy the conditions under which the Higher Learning Commission approved the November 2009 transaction, we could lose our accreditation by the Higher Learning Commission, which would cause us to lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs and a significant decline in total student enrollments. In addition, many of our individual educational programs are also accredited by specialized accrediting commissions or approved by specialized state agencies. If we fail to satisfy the standards of any of those specialized accrediting commissions or state agencies, we could lose the specialized accreditation or approval for the affected programs, which could result in materially reduced student enrollments in those programs and have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In December 2009, the Office of Inspector General issued an “Alert Memorandum,” calling into question the Higher Learning Commission’s compliance with the applicable Department of Education regulations related to the Higher Learning Commission’s status as recognized by the Department of Education. Although this matter has not been formally resolved, we are unable to speculate as to the impact on us or other institutions accredited by the Higher Learning Commission if the Higher Learning Commission’s recognition as an accrediting commission were to be limited, suspended, or terminated by the Department of Education. If we fail to maintain any of our state authorizations, we would lose our ability to operate in that state and for campuses in the state to participate in Title IV programs. -46- Table of Contents An institution must be authorized by each state in which it physically operates to participate in Title IV programs. The Department of Education historically has determined that an institution is authorized for the purpose of eligibility to participate in Title IV program eligibility if the institution’s state does not require the institution to obtain licensure or authorization to operate in the state. Under the Final Rules published by the Department of Education on October 29, 2010, the Department of Education considers an institution to be “legally authorized in a state” if, among other things: • The state establishes the institution by name as an educational institution by charter, statute, constitutional provision or other action issued by an appropriate state agency or state entity, and the institution is authorized to operate educational programs beyond secondary education, including programs leading to a certificate or degree; • The institution complies with applicable state approval or licensure requirements, except that a state may exempt an institution from any such requirement based on (1) the institution’s accreditation by one or more accrediting agencies recognized by the Department of Education or (2) the institution being in operation for at least 20 years; and • The state has a process, applicable to all institutions except federal and tribal institutions, to review and appropriately act on complaints concerning the institution and applicable state laws. Under the Final Rules, institutions unable to obtain state authorization in a state under the above requirements may request a one-year extension of the effective date of the regulation to July 1, 2012, and if necessary, an additional one-year extension of the effective date to July 1, 2013. To receive an extension of the effective date, an institution must obtain from the state an explanation of how a one-year extension will permit the state to modify its procedures to comply with the regulations. In South Dakota, where our operations are headquartered and we maintain several physical facilities, the state historically had not specifically authorized the degrees or other educational programs of private, regionally accredited institutions of higher education. On March 3, 2012, the Governor of South Dakota signed a bill passed by the South Dakota Legislature during its 2012 Legislative Session that, among other things, expressly authorizes certain named institutions, including us, to provide postsecondary educational programs in South Dakota. In addition to South Dakota, we operate physical facilities offering educational programs in Colorado, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas. With respect to New Mexico, we are currently exempt under state law from a requirement to be licensed by the New Mexico Higher Education Department because of our regional accreditation by the Higher Learning Commission. However, in order to comply with the Final Rules, we intend to submit an application for licensure to the New Mexico Higher Education Department. To maintain our state authorizations, we must continuously meet standards relating to, among other things, educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, marketing and recruitment, financial operations, addition of new locations and educational programs and various operational and administrative procedures. We may need to apply for additional authorization in these or other states in which we are authorized in order to comply with the state authorization requirements in Final Rules, and the authorization process could result in unexpected delays or other setbacks that could jeopardize our Title IV eligibility. If we fail to satisfy any of these standards, we could lose our authorization from the applicable state educational agency to offer educational programs and could be forced to cease operations in such state. Such a loss of authorization would also cause our physical campus in the state to lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Some states may also prescribe financial regulations that are different from those of the Department of Education and many require the posting of surety bonds. If we fail to comply with state licensing requirements, we may lose our state licensure or authorizations. If we lose state licensure in a state in which we have a physical location, we would also lose Title IV eligibility in that state. Any such event could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -47- Table of Contents The Final Rules also included a requirement that an institution meet any state authorization requirements in a state in which it has distance education students, but in which it is not physically located or otherwise subject to state jurisdiction, as a condition of awarding Title IV funds to students in that state. In July 2011, a Federal District Court issued an order vacating the regulation, which was sustained in June 2012 by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The Department of Education may further appeal the court’s decision, proceed to promulgate the requirement through a supplemental rulemaking process, or both. We therefore cannot predict with any certainty the future effectiveness of this aspect of the Final Rules. Independent of this matter of federal regulation, several states have asserted jurisdiction over educational institutions offering online programs that have no physical location or other presence in the state, but that have some activity in the state, such as enrolling or offering educational services to students who reside in the state, conducting practica or sponsoring internships in the state, employing faculty who reside in the state or advertising to or recruiting prospective students in the state. Thus, our activities in certain states constitute a presence requiring licensure or authorization under requirements of state law, regulation or policy of the state educational agency, even though we do not have a physical facility in such states. Therefore, in addition to the states where we maintain physical facilities, we have either obtained approvals or exemptions, or are currently in the process of obtaining such approvals or exemptions, that we believe are necessary in connection with our activities that may constitute a presence in such states requiring licensure or authorization by the state educational agency based on the laws, rules or regulations of that state. Notwithstanding our efforts to obtain approvals or exemptions, state regulatory requirements for online education vary among the states, are not well developed in many states, are imprecise or unclear in some states and can change frequently. Because we enroll students in online programs in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, we expect that regulatory authorities in other states where we are not currently licensed or authorized may request that we seek additional licenses or authorizations for these institutions in their states in the future. If we fail to comply with state licensing or authorization requirements for a state, or fail to obtain licenses or authorizations when required, we could lose state licensure or authorization by that state, which could prohibit us from recruiting prospective students or offering services to current students in that state. We could also be subject to other sanctions, including restrictions on activities in that state, fines and penalties. We review the licensure requirements of other states when we believe that it is appropriate to determine whether our activities in those states may constitute a presence or otherwise may require licensure or authorization by the respective state education agencies. New laws, regulations or interpretations related to offering educational programs online could increase our cost of doing business and affect our ability to recruit students in particular states, which could, in turn, adversely affect our enrollments and revenues and have a material effect on our business. If we do not comply with the Department of Education’s “administrative capability” standards, we could suffer financial penalties, be required to accept other limitations to continue participating in Title IV programs or lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Department of Education regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. These criteria require, among other things, that we: • comply with all applicable Title IV program regulations; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; • not have student loan cohort default rates in excess of specified levels; • have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of our students; • have various procedures in place for safeguarding federal funds; • not be, and not have any principal or affiliate who is, debarred or suspended from federal contracting or engaging in activity that is cause for debarment or suspension; • provide financial aid counseling to our students; • refer to the Department of Education’s Office of Inspector General any credible information indicating that any applicant, student, employee or agent of the institution has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV programs; • submit in a timely manner all reports and financial statements required by Title IV regulations; and • not otherwise appear to lack administrative capability. -48- Table of Contents If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria or comply with any other Department of Education regulations, the Department of Education may: • require the institution to repay Title IV program funds; • transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of Title IV program funds to cash monitoring status or to the “reimbursement” system of payment; • place the institution on provisional certification status; or • commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV programs. If we were found not to have satisfied the Department of Education’s “administrative capability” requirements, we could be limited in our access to, or lose, Title IV program funding, which could significantly reduce our enrollments and have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not meet specific financial responsibility standards established by the Department of Education, we may be required to post a letter of credit or accept other limitations to continue participating in Title IV programs, or we could lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. To participate in Title IV programs, an eligible institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by the Department of Education, or post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. These financial responsibility tests are applied to each institution on an annual basis based on the institution’s audited financial statements, and may be applied at other times, such as if the institution undergoes a change in control. The Department of Education may also apply such measures of financial responsibility to the operating company and ownership entities of an eligible institution and, if such measures are not satisfied by the operating company or ownership entities, require the institution to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV programs. The operating restrictions that may be placed on an institution that does not meet the quantitative standards of financial responsibility include being transferred from the “advance payment” method of receiving Title IV program funds to either the “reimbursement” or the “heightened cash monitoring” system, which could result in a significant delay in the institution’s receipt of those funds. Limitations on, or termination of, our participation in Title IV programs as a result of our failure to demonstrate financial responsibility would limit our students’ access to Title IV program funds, which could significantly reduce enrollments and have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As described in more detail under “Regulatory Matters — Regulation of Federal Student Aid Programs — Financial Responsibility,” the Department of Education annually assesses our financial responsibility through a composite score determination. Based on our composite score for fiscal year ended May 31, 2007, and continuing for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2008, the Department of Education previously determined that we failed to meet the standards of financial responsibility. As a result of this determination, the Department of Education required us to post a letter of credit equal to 10 percent of Title IV program funds we received during our most recently completed fiscal year. Based on our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2009, the Department of Education informed us that we were no longer required to maintain a letter of credit. Our audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2012 and May 31, 2011 indicated our composite scores for such fiscal years were 2.7 and 3.0, respectively. Any obligation to post a letter of credit in the future could increase our costs of regulatory compliance. If we are unable to secure any required letter of credit, we would lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which can be expected to have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -49- Table of Contents We may lose our eligibility to participate in the federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of our revenues derived from Title IV programs is too high. A provision of the Higher Education Act commonly referred to as the “90/10” Rule, as amended in August 2008, provides that a for-profit educational institution loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if, under a complex regulatory formula that requires cash basis accounting and other adjustments to the calculation of revenue, the institution derives more than 90% of its revenues from Title IV program funds for any two consecutive fiscal years. An institution that derives more than 90% of its revenue (on a cash basis) from Title IV programs for any single fiscal year will be placed on provisional certification for at least two fiscal years and may be subject to additional conditions or sanctions imposed by the Department of Education. During the period of provisional certification, the institution must comply with any additional conditions included in the institution’s program participation agreement with the Department of Education. In addition, the Department of Education may more closely review an institution that is provisionally certified if it applies for recertification or approval to open a new location, add an educational program, acquire another school or make any other significant change. If the Department of Education determines that a provisionally certified institution is unable to meet its responsibilities under its program participation agreement, the Department of Education may seek to revoke the institution’s certification to participate in Title IV programs without advance notice or opportunity for the institution to challenge the action. If we were to violate the 90/10 Rule, we would become ineligible to participate in Title IV programs as of the first day of the fiscal year following the second consecutive fiscal year in which we exceeded the 90% threshold and would be unable to regain eligibility for two fiscal years thereafter. Prior to the Higher Education Act amendment in August 2008, an institution was required to disclose in a footnote to its annual audited financial statements the percentage of its revenues derived from Title IV program funds that the institution received during the fiscal year covered by such financial statements. Under regulations that were published by the Department of Education in October 2009, a proprietary institution must continue to disclose in a footnote to its annual audited financial statements not only its 90/10 calculation, but also the amounts of the federal and non-federal revenues, by source, included in its 90/10 calculation. The certified public accountant that prepares the institution’s audited financial statements will be required to review that information and test the institution’s calculation. These regulations became effective on July 1, 2010, and also contain other modifications to the 90/10 Rule, including the means by which certain institutional loans may be considered in the calculation. These revised regulations may affect our ability to remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs or require us to incur additional costs in connection with our administration of Title IV programs. If we violate the 90/10 Rule and continue to disburse Title IV program funds to students after the effective date of our loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, we would be required to return those funds to the applicable lender or the Department of Education. Using the Department of Education’s formula under the “90/10 Rule,” for our 2008 and 2009 fiscal years, as promulgated prior to regulatory revisions implementing the August 2008 reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, we derived approximately 68% and 72%, respectively, of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from Title IV program funds. For our 2011 and 2012 fiscal years, we derived approximately 79% and 85%, respectively, of our revenues (calculated on a cash basis) from Title IV program funds. Increases in Title IV grant and loan limits currently or in the future may result in an increase in the revenues we receive from Title IV programs. Further, a significant number of states in which we operate have faced budget constraints, which have caused or may cause them to reduce state appropriations in a number of areas, including with respect to the amount of financial assistance provided to postsecondary students, which could further increase our percentage of revenues derived from Title IV program funds. Also, the employment circumstances of our students or their parents could also increase reliance on Title IV program funds. We expect our ratio under the 90/10 Rule to continue to increase in the future. If we become ineligible to participate in Title IV programs as a result of noncompliance with the 90/10 Rule, it can be expected to have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -50- Table of Contents We may lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if our student loan default rates are too high. An educational institution may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if, for three consecutive years, 25% or more of its students who were required to begin repayment on their student loans in the relevant fiscal year default on their payment by the end of the next federal fiscal year. In addition, an institution may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if the default rate of its students exceeds 40% for any single year. Our cohort default rates have historically been significantly below these levels, at 14.1%, 9.8% and 8.2% for federal fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, the most recent federal fiscal years for which official cohort default rates as measured over two federal fiscal years of borrower repayment have been issued by the Department of Education. We cannot, however, provide any assurance that this will continue to be the case. The August 2008 reauthorization of the Higher Education Act extends by one year the period for which students’ defaults on their loans will be included in the calculation of an institution’s default rate, a change that is expected to increase most institutions’ default rates. The new law also increases the threshold for an institution to lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs from 25% to 30%. During a transition period covering the cohort default rates for federal fiscal years 2009, 2010 and 2011, the Department of Education is calculating and issuing to institutions their cohort default rates under both the former and revised methodologies. The Department of Education is expected to calculate and issue institutions’ official cohort default rates for federal fiscal year 2009 as measured over three federal fiscal years of borrower repayment in September 2012. As described in more detail under “Regulatory Matters — Regulation of Federal Student Aid Programs — Student Loan Defaults,” the Department of Education notified us in March 2012 that our draft cohort default rate for federal fiscal year 2009 as measured over three federal fiscal years of borrower repayment was 23.2%. Draft cohort default rates do not result in sanctions, are subject to subsequent data corrections and appeals by an institution, and can change between their issuance to institutions and the Department of Education’s release of official cohort default rates, which are typically issued annually in September. Any increase in interest rates or reliance on “self-pay” students, as well as declines in income or job losses for our students, could contribute to higher default rates on student loans. Exceeding the student loan default rate thresholds and losing eligibility to participate in Title IV programs would have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any future changes in the formula for calculating student loan default rates, economic conditions or other factors that cause our default rates to increase, could place us in danger of losing its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, which would have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We would be subject to sanctions if we were to pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admission or financial aid activities. The Higher Education Act prohibits an educational institution that participates in Title IV programs from making any commission, bonus or other incentive payments based directly or indirectly on securing enrollments or financial aid to any persons or entities involved in student recruiting or admissions activities, or in making decisions about the award of student financial assistance. Under Department of Education regulations in effect prior to July 1, 2011, there were twelve “safe harbor” provisions which specify certain activities and arrangements that an institution may carry out without violating the prohibition against incentive compensation reflected in the Higher Education Act, including the following: • an institution could make up to two adjustments (upward or downward) to a covered employee’s salary or fixed hourly wage rate within any 12-month period without the adjustment being considered an incentive payment, provided that no adjustment is based solely on the number of students recruited, admitted, enrolled or awarded financial aid; • a covered employee could be compensated based upon students successfully completing their educational programs; and • the incentive payment prohibition in the Higher Education Act did not apply to managerial and supervisory employees who do not directly manage or supervise employees who are directly involved in recruiting or admissions activities, or the awarding of Title IV funds. -51- Table of Contents While we believe that our compensation policies and practices have not been based on success in enrolling students in violation of applicable law, the Department of Education’s regulations and interpretations of the incentive compensation law do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances and, in a limited number of instances, our past actions may not have been within the scope of any historic safe harbor provided in the compensation regulations. In the Final Rules published by the Department of Education on October 29, 2010 that became effective July 1, 2011, all of the previous safe harbor provisions were eliminated. The Department of Education effectively has taken the position that any commission, bonus or other incentive compensation based in any part, directly or indirectly, or securing enrollment or awarding financial aid is inconsistent with the prohibition against incentive compensation payment in the Higher Education Act. The Department of Education contends that institutions do not need to rely on these safe harbors and can instead determine if compensation is permissible under the Higher Education Act by considering (1) whether it is a commission, bonus or other incentive payment (meaning an award of money or something of value, other than a fixed salary or wages), paid or given for services rendered and (2) if so, whether that commission, bonus or other incentive payment is given to a person based in any part, directly or indirectly, upon securing enrollments or awarding financial aid. The prohibition against incentive compensation applies to any person engaged in student recruitment or admissions activities or in making financial aid award decisions, and any higher level employees with responsibility for such activities. In the Final Rules, the Department of Education has maintained that institutions may make merit-based adjustments to employee compensation, provided that those adjustments are not based, in any part, directly or indirectly, upon securing enrollments or awarding financial aid. Among other examples, the Department of Education provides guidance that an institution may maintain a hierarchy of enrollment personnel with varying levels of responsibility and salary scales that reflect added amounts of responsibility, that an institution may promote personnel based on merit, and that an institution may make compensation decisions based on seniority or length of employment, provided that such decisions are consistent with the prohibition on incentive compensation. In a “Dear Colleague” letter issued on March 17, 2011, the Department of Education provided additional guidance regarding the scope of the prohibition on incentive compensation and to what employees and types of activities the prohibition applies. We have modified some of our compensation practices as a result of the elimination of the safe harbors. These changes in our compensation practices could (1) reduce the effectiveness of our employees, and make it more difficult for us to attract and retain staff with the desired talent and motivation to succeed and (2) impair our ability to sustain and grow our business. This could also increase marketing costs and reduce revenues if we are unable to maintain or increase student enrollments. In addition, in recent years, other postsecondary educational institutions have been named as defendants to whistleblower lawsuits, known as “qui tam” cases, brought by current or former employees pursuant to the Federal False Claims Act, alleging that their institution’s compensation practices did not comply with the incentive compensation rule. A qui tam case is a civil lawsuit brought by one or more individuals, referred to as a relator, on behalf of the federal government for an alleged submission to the government of a false claim for payment. The relator, often a current or former employee, is entitled to a share of the government’s recovery in the case, including the possibility of treble damages. A qui tam action is always filed under seal and remains under seal until the government decides whether to intervene in the case. If the government intervenes, it takes over primary control of the litigation. If the government declines to intervene in the case, the relator may nonetheless elect to continue to pursue the litigation at his or her own expense on behalf of the government. Any such litigation could be costly and could divert management’s time and attention away from the business, regardless of whether a claim has merit. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to correctly calculate and timely return Title IV program funds for students who withdraw before completing their educational program. An institution participating in Title IV programs must calculate the amount of unearned Title IV program funds that it has disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational programs before completing such programs and must return those unearned funds to the appropriate lender or the Department of Education in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the institution determines that the student has withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned for a sufficient percentage of students, we may have to post a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education equal to 25% of Title IV program funds that should have been returned for such students in the prior fiscal year, and we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by the Department of Education. If we do not correctly calculate and timely return unearned Title IV program funds, we may have to post letters of credit in favor of the Department of Education, may be liable for repayment of Title IV funds and related interest and may otherwise be subject to adverse actions by the Department of Education, including termination of our participation in Title IV programs, any of which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -52- Table of Contents We or certain of our educational programs may lose eligibility to participate in the Title IV programs if our educational programs are not shown to lead to “gainful employment” in a recognized occupation. Under the Higher Education Act, proprietary schools are generally eligible to participate in Title IV programs only to the extent that their educational programs lead to “gainful employment” in a recognized occupation. On June 13, 2011, the Department of Education published the final Gainful Employment Rule defining “gainful employment” using two metrics, one based on debt-to-income ratios and the other based on repayment rates. These standards were scheduled to become effective on July 1, 2012. However, as described in more detail below, on June 30, 2012, a Federal District Court vacated the Gainful Employment Rule. It therefore is not presently in effect, pending the final outcome of the underlying litigation and any additional actions by the Department of Education. See “Regulatory Matters — Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs — Gainful Employment.” Under the Gainful Employment Rule as promulgated by the Department of Education, if an educational program fails both the loan repayment or debt to earnings metrics, after one failure, the institution must provide an oral or written warning to students disclosing the amount by which the program missed minimal acceptable performance and the program’s plans for improvement. The institution must also establish a three day waiting period before a student can enroll after receiving this disclosure. After two failures in three years, the institution must provide a written warning to prospective and enrolled students in the failing program, stating the plans the institution intends to take in response, the risks associated with enrolling or continuing in the program, that students “should expect to have difficulty repaying” their loans and, if the institution chooses to discontinue the program at this stage, notice to students with a timeline for discontinuation. After three failures in four years, the program loses eligibility for Title IV Program funds. Once a program has lost eligibility, an institution cannot reestablish the program’s Title IV eligibility for at least three years. On June 21, 2012, the Department of Education released data to educational institutions showing the calculation of gainful employment metrics for the 2011 measurement year for each of the institutions’ covered educational programs. These 2011 metrics were released for informational purposes only, as the Gainful Employment Rule was to be effective on July 1, 2012. The informational metrics for 2011 were based on data reported by us relating to federal fiscal years 2007 and 2008. This informational data indicates that all of our educational programs covered by the relevant reporting period prepared students for gainful employment in the manner set forth in the Gainful Employment Rule. On June 30, 2012, a Federal District Court vacated the Gainful Employment Rule, finding that the loan repayment metric was arbitrary and capricious, and, further, that the loan repayment and debt-to-income metrics were not severable from each other. As a result, the Gainful Employment Rule is not presently in effect. The court did find, however, that the Department of Education possesses statutory authority to define “gainful employment” by regulation and to develop specific metrics as part of such regulations. The Department of Education may appeal the court’s decision, re-promulgate gainful employment standards in a manner that addresses the court’s findings, or both. If the decision of the Federal District Court is reversed on appeal, the Department of Education may establish a new effective date for the Gainful Employment Rule. We therefore are unable to speculate on the outcome of this litigation, the future applicability of the Gainful Employment Rule or other similar standards, or its ultimate effect on our business. -53- Table of Contents The Gainful Employment Rule as promulgated by the Department of Education also provided that any educational institution that seeks to provide Title IV program funds to student enrolled in a new program that prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized program, which includes all programs offered by us, must submit a notice to the Department of Education at least 90 days before the expected first day of class. These requirements were also vacated by a Federal District Court on June 30, 2012, as part of the above-described court decision, and thus presently are not in effect. However, we are currently provisionally certified by the Department of Education and remain subject to certain program approval requirements otherwise applicable to provisionally certified institutions. Any delay in obtaining a required Department of Education approval could delay the introduction of the program, which could negatively affect our growth and our ability to respond to emerging employment trends and add programs that are responsive to those trends, which in turn could decrease our attractiveness to certain students. Notwithstanding the 2011 informational data and the above-described Federal Court decision, the failure of any of our programs to satisfy any gainful employment regulations applicable in the future could render that program or programs ineligible for Title IV program funds. Additionally, the 2011 informational data and any future gainful employment data released by the Department of Education could influence current students not to continue their studies, discourage prospective students from enrolling in our programs or negatively impact our reputation. We continue to evaluate the impact of these rules on our business and to monitor developments in this area. It is unclear at this time the level of administrative burden, increased costs, or effect on growth and enrollments that may result from these new reporting and disclosure requirements. There remain many open questions and interpretive issues with respect to these aspects of the final regulations. It is possible that the Gainful Employment Rule, to the extent it is reinstate in the future, could render a significant number of our programs, and many programs offered by other proprietary educational institutions, ineligible for Title IV funding. In addition, the continuing eligibility of our educational programs for Title IV funding would be at risk due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in the income levels of our former students, increases in interest rates, changes in student mix to persons requiring higher amounts of student loans to complete their programs, changes in student loan delinquency rates and other factors. If a particular program ceased to be eligible for Title IV funding, either because it fails to prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation or due to other factors, we may be required to cease offering that program. We may have to substantially increase our efforts to promote student loan repayment to ensure continued eligibility for certain programs to remain eligible for Title IV funding. We could also be required to increase disclosures to our students and prospective students, and our program growth could be restricted or compromised. Any of these events could materially increase our costs of doing business, cause decreased enrollments, and have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be held liable for any misrepresentation regarding the nature of our educational programs, financial charges and financial assistance or the employability of our graduates. An institution participating in Title IV programs is prohibited from making misrepresentations regarding the nature of its educational programs, the nature of financial charges and availability of financial assistance, or the employability of graduates. A misrepresentation is defined in the regulations as any false, erroneous or misleading statement to any student or prospective student, any member of the public, an accrediting agency, a state agency or the Department of Education, and, significantly, the Final Rules as promulgated by the Department of Education defined misleading statements to broadly include any statements that have a likelihood or tendency to deceive or confuse. However, in June 2012, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated the regulation insofar as it defined misrepresentation to include true and nondeceitful statements that have only the tendency or likelihood to confuse. If we – or any entity, organization, or person with whom we have an agreement to provide educational programs or to provide marketing, advertising, recruiting, or admissions services – commit a misrepresentation for which a person could reasonably be expected to rely, or has reasonably relied, to that person’s detriment, the Department of Education could initiate proceedings to revoke our Title IV eligibility, deny applications made by us, impose fines, or initiate a limitation, suspension or termination proceeding against us. Further, although the Department of Education claims not to have created any private right of action, the misrepresentation regulations as modified by the Final Rules could increase risk of qui tam actions under the False Claims Act. -54- Table of Contents If our students experience a loss or reduction of state financial aid, we could be materially affected. A significant number of states in which we operate have faced budget constraints, which have caused or may cause them to reduce or eliminate state appropriations, including with respect to the amount of financial assistance provided to postsecondary students, and additional states may reduce or eliminate such appropriations in the future. State financial aid programs generally are subject to annual appropriation by the state legislatures, which may eliminate or significantly decrease the amount of state financial aid available to students. We cannot predict whether future reductions in state financial aid programs will occur or how long such reductions will persist. For fiscal year ended May 31, 2012, we derived approximately 1% of our total revenue from state financial aid programs. In fiscal year ended May 31, 2012, students enrolled at our Minnesota locations received financial assistance through a state financial aid program. The loss or reduction of state financial aid could decrease our student enrollment and could have a material effect on our business. A substantial decrease in private student financing options or a significant increase in financing costs for our students could have a material effect on us. Some of our eligible students have used private (i.e., non-Title IV) loan programs to fund a portion of their education costs not covered by Title IV program funds or state financial aid sources. Recent adverse market conditions for consumer and federally guaranteed student loans (including lenders’ increasing difficulties in reselling or syndicating student loan portfolios) have resulted, and could continue to result, in providers of private loans reducing the availability of or increasing the costs associated with providing private loans to postsecondary students. In particular, loans to students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based private loans have become increasingly difficult to obtain. Prospective students may find that these increased financing costs make borrowing prohibitively expensive and abandon or delay enrollment in postsecondary education programs. If our students’ are unable to finance their education our student population could decrease, which would have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we may be subject to compliance reviews and claims of non-compliance and lawsuits by government agencies, regulatory agencies and third parties, including claims brought by third parties on behalf of the federal government. If the results of these reviews or proceedings are unfavorable to us, or if we are unable to defend successfully against lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, limitations, loss of eligibility for Title IV funding, injunctions or other penalties. Even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or to defend against those lawsuits or claims. Additionally, we may experience adverse collateral consequences as a result of any negative publicity associated with such claims, including declines in student enrollments and lessened willingness of third parties to do business with us. Claims and lawsuits brought against us may damage our reputation or cost us to incur expenses, even if such claims and lawsuits are without merit. Risks Related to Our Business We operate in a highly competitive industry, and competitors with greater resources could harm our business, decrease market share and put downward pressure on our tuition rates. The postsecondary education market is highly fragmented and competitive. We compete for students with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities, and other for-profit schools, including those that offer online learning programs, and alternatives to higher education, such as employment and military service. Many public and private schools, colleges and universities, including most major colleges and universities, offer online programs. We expect to experience additional competition in the future as more colleges, universities and for-profit schools offer an increasing number of online programs. Public institutions receive substantial government subsidies, and public and private non-profit institutions have access to government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial resources generally not available to for-profit schools. Accordingly, public and private nonprofit institutions may have instructional and support resources superior to those in the for-profit sector, and public institutions can offer substantially lower tuition prices. Some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors also have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and may face competitive pressures that could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -55- Table of Contents Our online and distance learning programs operate in a highly competitive market with rapid technological changes. Online education is a highly fragmented and competitive market subject to rapid technological change. Competitors vary in size and organization from traditional colleges and universities, many of which offer some form of online education programs, to for-profit schools and software companies providing online education and training software. We expect the online education and training market to be subject to rapid changes in delivery, interaction and other future innovation and advancement. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt to changing technologies in online and distance learning and offer an attractive online/distance education option while maintaining competitive pricing. Furthermore, the expansion of our online programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by the online education market. In addition, a general decline in Internet use for any reason, including due to security or privacy concerns, the cost of Internet service or changes in government regulation of Internet use, may result in less demand for online educational services, in which case we may not be able to recruit and retain students and grow our online programs as planned. Accordingly, if we are unable to keep pace with changes in technology or maintain technological relevance, or if the use of the Internet changes, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If our graduates are unable to obtain professional licenses or certifications in their chosen field of study, we may face declining enrollments and revenues or be subject to student litigation. Certain of our students, particularly in the healthcare programs, require or desire professional licenses or certifications after graduation to obtain employment in their chosen fields. Their success in obtaining such licensure depends on several factors, including the individual merits of the student, whether the institution and the program were approved by the state or by a professional association, whether the program from which the student graduated meets all state requirements and whether the institution is accredited. If one or more states refuses to recognize our graduates for professional licensure in the future based on factors relating to us or our programs, the potential growth of our programs would be negatively impacted, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we could be exposed to litigation that would force us to incur legal and other expenses that could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to continue our recent revenue growth, our stock price may decline and we may not have adequate financial resources to execute our business plan. Our revenue increased from approximately $89.8 million in fiscal 2010 to approximately $106.8 million in fiscal 2011 and then to approximately $118.9 million in fiscal 2012. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth, our stock price may decline and we may not have adequate financial resources to execute our business plan. In addition, you should not rely on the results of any prior periods as an indication of our future operating performance. We have experienced losses and may not maintain profitability. We have experienced losses in the past and it is possible we will experience losses in the future. In addition, we expect that our operating expenses and business development expenses will increase as we enroll more students, open new education locations and develop new programs. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient revenues to maintain profitability. -56- Table of Contents Our financial performance depends on our ability to continue to develop awareness among, and attract and retain, new students. Building awareness of NAU and the programs and services we offer is critical to our ability to attract prospective students. If we are unable to successfully market and advertise our educational programs, our ability to attract and enroll students could be adversely affected, and, consequently, our ability to increase revenue or maintain profitability could be impaired. It is also critical to our success that we convert prospective students to enrolled students in a cost-effective manner and that these enrolled students remain active in our programs. Some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully enrolling and retaining students include: • the reduced availability of, or higher interest rates and other costs associated with, Title IV loan funds or other sources of financial aid; • the emergence of more successful competitors; • factors related to our marketing, including the costs and effectiveness of Internet advertising and broad-based branding campaigns and recruiting efforts; • performance problems with our online systems; • failure to maintain institutional and specialized accreditations; • failure to obtain and maintain required state authorizations; • the requirements of the education agencies that regulate us that restrict the initiation of new locations, new programs and modification of existing programs; • the requirements of the education agencies that regulate us that restrict the ways schools can compensate their recruitment personnel; • increased regulation of online education, including in states in which we do not have a physical presence; • restrictions that may be imposed on graduates of online programs that seek certification or licensure in certain states; • student dissatisfaction with our services and programs; • adverse publicity regarding us, our competitors, or online or for-profit education generally; • price reductions by competitors that we are unwilling or unable to match; • a decline in the acceptance of online education; • an adverse economic or other development that affects job prospects in our core disciplines; • a decrease in the perceived or actual economic benefits that students derive from our programs; • litigation or regulatory investigations that may damage our reputation; and • changes in the general economy, including employment. If, for any reason or reasons, including those presented above, we are unable to maintain and increase our awareness among prospective students, recruit students and convert prospective students into enrolled students, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. -57- Table of Contents Our growth may place a strain on our resources that could adversely affect our systems, controls and operating efficiency. Our ability to sustain our current rate of growth or profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals, our ability to maintain operating margins, our ability to recruit and retain high quality academic faculty and administrative personnel and other competitive factors. In recent years, a majority of our growth has resulted from an increase in students enrolling in our Associate degree programs; however, we believe that future growth will be based upon an expansion of our current programs, the addition of new programs, an increase in our physical and online presence, affiliation agreements and increasing enrollments. The growth and expansion of our domestic and international operations may place a significant strain on our resources and increase demands on our management information and reporting systems, financial management controls and personnel. Any failure to effectively manage or maintain growth could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot maintain student enrollments, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our strategy for growth and profitability depends, in part, upon the retention of our students. While we provide certain services to our students (e.g., tutoring) in an effort to retain students and lower attrition rates, many of our students face financial, personal or family constraints that require them to withdraw within a term or at the end of a given term. Additionally, some students may decide to continue their education at a different institution. If for any reason, we are unable to predict and manage student attrition, our overall enrollment levels would likely decline, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the proportion of students who are enrolled in our Associate degree programs continues to increase, we may experience increased costs and reduced margins. In recent years, the proportion of our enrollment composed of Associate degree students has increased. We have experienced certain effects from this shift, such as an increase in our student loan cohort default rate. If this shift towards Associate degree programs continues, we may experience additional consequences, such as higher costs per start, lower retention rates, higher student services costs, an increase in the percentage of our revenue derived from Title IV programs under the 90/10 Rule, more limited ability to implement tuition price increases and other effects that could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students. For the fiscal years ended May 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, NAU derived cash receipts equal to approximately 85%, 79%, and 76%, respectively, of its net revenue from tuition financed under Title IV programs, which include student loans with interest rates subsidized by the federal government. Additionally, some students finance their education through private loans that are not subsidized. If our students’ employment circumstances are adversely affected by regional or national economic downturns, they may be more heavily dependent on student loans. Interest rates have reached relatively low levels in recent years, creating a favorable borrowing environment for students. However, if interest rates increase or Congress decreases the amount available for Title IV funding, our students may have to pay higher interest rates on their loans. Any future increase in interest rates will result in a corresponding increase in educational costs to our existing and prospective students, which could result in a significant reduction in our student population and revenues. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students’ repayment of their education loans. Higher default rates may in turn adversely impact our eligibility to participate in some or all of the Title IV programs, which could result in a material effect on our enrollments and future growth prospects and our business, financial condition and results of operations. -58- Table of Contents Our reputation and the value of our stock may be negatively affected by the actions of other postsecondary educational institutions. In recent years, regulatory proceedings and litigation have been commenced against various postsecondary educational institutions relating to, among other things, deceptive trade practices, false claims against the government and non-compliance with Department of Education requirements, state education laws and state consumer protection laws. These proceedings have been brought by students, the Department of Education, the United States Department of Justice, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and state governmental agencies, among others. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage and have been the subject of legislative hearings and regulatory actions at both the federal and state levels, focusing not only on the individual schools but in some cases on the larger for-profit postsecondary education sector as a whole. Adverse media coverage regarding other for-profit education companies or other educational institutions could damage our reputation, result in lower enrollments, revenues and results of operations and have a negative impact on the value of our stock. Such coverage could also result in increased scrutiny and regulation by the Department of Education, Congress, accrediting commissions, state legislatures, state attorneys general, state education agencies or other governmental authorities of all educational institutions, including us. Our expansion into new markets outside the United States will subject us to risks inherent in international operations, are subject to significant start-up costs and place strain on our management. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to establish markets outside the United States, subject to approvals from the Higher Learning Commission and other appropriate accrediting or regulatory agencies. Currently, we have affiliations with institutions in Chile, Bolivia, Paraguay, Ghana, United Arab Emirates and Greece. Our operations in each of the foreign jurisdictions may subject us to additional educational and other regulations of foreign jurisdictions, which may differ materially from the regulations applicable to our domestic operations. Such international expansion is expected to require a significant amount of start-up costs. Additionally, our management does not have significant experience in operating a business at the international level. As a result, we may be unsuccessful in carrying out our plans for international expansion, obtaining the necessary licensing, permits or market saturation, or in successfully navigating other challenges posed by operating an international business. If we do not maintain existing and develop additional relationships with employers, our future growth may be impaired. Currently, we have relationships with certain employers to provide their employees with an opportunity to enroll in classes and obtain degrees through us while maintaining their employment. These relationships are an important part of our strategy because they provide us with a steady source of potential working adult students for particular programs and increase our reputation among employers. If we are unable to develop new relationships or maintain our existing relationships, this source of potential students may be impaired and enrollments and revenue may decrease, any of which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If students fail to pay their outstanding balances, our business may be harmed. From time to time, students may carry balances on portions of their education expense not covered by financial aid programs. These balances are unsecured and not guaranteed. Furthermore, disruptive economic events could adversely affect the ability or willingness of our former students to repay student loans, which may increase our student loan cohort default rate and require the devotion of increased time, attention and resources to manage these defaults. As a result, losses related to unpaid student balances in excess of the amounts we have reserved for bad debts, or the failure of students to repay their debt obligations, could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government regulations relating to the Internet could increase our cost of doing business and affect our ability to grow. The increasing popularity and use of the Internet and other online services has led and may lead to the adoption of new laws and regulatory practices in the United States or foreign countries and to new interpretations of existing laws and regulations. These new laws and interpretations may relate to issues such as online privacy, copyrights, trademarks and service marks, sales taxes, fair business practices and the requirement that online education institutions qualify to do business as foreign corporations or be licensed in one or more jurisdictions where they have no physical location. As the proportion of our students who take online courses increases, new laws, regulations or interpretations related to doing business over the Internet could increase our costs of compliance or doing business and materially affect our ability to offer online courses, which would have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -59- Table of Contents Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to keep pace with changing market needs. Increasingly, prospective employers of NAU students require their new employees to possess appropriate technological skills and interpersonal skills, such as communication, critical thinking and teamwork skills. These skills evolve rapidly in a changing economic and technological environment. Accordingly, it is important for our programs to evolve in response to those economic and technological changes. The expansion of existing programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by current or prospective students or the employers of our graduates. Even if NAU is able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to begin offering those new programs as quickly as required by prospective employers or as quickly as our competitors offer similar programs. In addition, we may be unable to obtain specialized accreditations or licensures that may make certain programs desirable to students. To offer a new academic program, NAU may be required to obtain appropriate federal, state and accrediting agency approvals that may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible for Title IV programs, a new academic program may need to be approved by the Department of Education, the Higher Learning Commission and state educational agencies. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, unusually rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired, the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer and our reputation among students, prospective students and employers may be impaired, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Establishing new academic programs or modifying existing programs requires us to invest in management and business development, incur marketing expenses and reallocate other resources. We may have limited experience with any courses in new academic areas and may need to modify our systems, strategy and delivery platform or enter into arrangements with other educational institutions to provide such programs effectively and profitably. If we are unable to offer new courses and programs in a cost-effective manner, or are otherwise unable to effectively manage the operations of newly established academic programs, it could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Capacity constraints of our computer networks and changes to the acceptance and regulation of online programs could have a material effect on student retention and growth. If we are successful in increasing student enrollments, additional resources in the forms of human, intellectual and financial capital, as well as information technology resources, will be necessary. We have invested and continue to invest significant resources in information technology when such technology systems and tools have become impaired or obsolete. In an attempt to utilize recent technology, we could install new information technology systems without accurately assessing its costs or benefits or experience delayed or ineffective implementation of new information technology systems. Similarly, we could fail to respond in a timely or sufficiently competitive way to future technological developments in our industry. As a result, this growth may place a significant strain on our operational resources, including our computer networks and information technology infrastructure, thereby restricting our ability to enroll and retain students and grow our online programs. System disruptions and security threats to our computer networks could have a material effect on our ability to attract and retain students. The performance and reliability of our computer network infrastructure is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain students. Any computer system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in traffic on our computer networks, including those that host our online programs, may cause network outages and disrupt our online and on-ground operations that may damage our reputation. Additionally, we face a number of threats to our computer systems, including unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems and system disruptions. We have devoted and will continue to devote significant resources to the security of our computer systems, but they are still vulnerable to security threats. A user or hacker who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, we expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these system disruptions and security breaches and may have to spend more to alleviate problems caused by these disruptions and breaches, which could have a material effect on our reputation, ability to retain and store data and our business, financial condition and results of operations. -60- Table of Contents A failure of our information systems to store, process and report relevant data may reduce management’s effectiveness, interfere with regulatory compliance and increase operating expenses. We are heavily dependent on the integrity of our data management systems. If these systems do not effectively collect, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies or human error, our ability to plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations, including the Higher Education Act, will be impaired. Any such impairment of our information systems could materially affect our reputation and our ability to provide student services or accurately budget or forecast operating activity, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss, and could subject us to liability or adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business and reputation. We collect, use and retain large amounts of personal information regarding our students and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data and credit card numbers. We also collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of business. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain of our vendors. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require us to implement certain policies and procedures, such as the procedures we adopted to comply with the Red Flags Rule that was promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission under the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, which requires the establishment of guidelines and policies regarding identity theft related to student credit accounts, and could require us to make certain notifications of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. A violation of any laws or regulations relating to the collection or use of personal information could result in the imposition of fines against us. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. While we believe we have taken appropriate precautions and safety measures, there can be no assurances that a breach, loss or theft of any such personal information will not occur. Any breach, theft or loss of such personal information could have a material effect on our reputation, could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could result in liability under state and federal privacy statutes and legal actions by state attorneys general and private litigants. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of class materials posted online for class discussions. In some instances, our faculty members or students may distribute to students in class or post various articles or other third-party content on class discussion boards. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of this material distributed in class or posted online for class discussions. As a for-profit organization, we may be subject to a greater risk of liability for the unauthorized duplication of materials under the Copyright Act than a non-profit institution of higher education. Third parties may raise claims against us for the unauthorized duplication of this material. Any such claims could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on financial resources and management personnel, regardless of whether the claims have merit. Our general liability insurance may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our courses or pay monetary damages, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -61- Table of Contents We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary rights and intellectual property. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, domain names and contractual agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on trademark protection in both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions to protect our rights to various marks, as well as distinctive logos and other marks associated with them. We also rely on agreements under which we obtain intellectual property or license rights to own or use content developed by faculty members, content experts and other third-parties. We cannot assure that these measures are adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights in the United States or any foreign jurisdictions, or that third parties will not terminate license rights or infringe upon or otherwise violate our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to infringe our trademarks, use, duplicate or copy the proprietary aspects of our student recruitment and educational delivery methods, curricula, online resource material and other content. Our management’s attention may be diverted by these attempts and we have in the past, and may in the future, need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be involved in disputes from time to time relating to our intellectual property and the intellectual property of third parties. We have in the past, and may in the future, become parties to disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not always prevail in these disputes. Third parties may allege that we have not obtained sufficient rights in the content of a course or other intellectual property. Third parties may also raise claims against us alleging infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid violating those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. Our general liability and cyber liability insurance, if any, may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter the content of our courses or pay monetary damages or license fees to third parties, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to retain key personnel or hire and retain the personnel we need to sustain and grow our business. Our success depends largely on the skills, efforts and motivations of our executive officers, who have significant experience with our business and within the education industry. Due to the nature of the education industry, we face significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skills necessary to sustain and grow our business. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced faculty members and staff members on acceptable terms, could impair our ability to sustain and grow our business. Our business may be affected by changing economic conditions. The United States economy and the economies of other key industrialized countries currently have recessionary characteristics, including reduced economic activity, increased unemployment and substantial uncertainty about the financial markets. In addition, homeowners in the United States have experienced an unprecedented reduction in wealth due to the decline in residential real estate values across much of the country. The reduction in wealth, unavailability of credit and unwillingness of employers to sponsor non-traditional educational opportunities for their employees could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, natural disasters or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our operations. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, tornados and other natural disasters or breaches of security at our educational sites could disrupt our operations. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, natural disasters or breaches of security that directly impact our physical facilities, online offerings or ability to recruit and retain students and employees could adversely affect our ability to deliver our programs to our students and, thereby, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, natural disasters or breaches of security could adversely affect the economy and demographics of the affected region, which could cause significant declines in the number of our students in that region and could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -62- Table of Contents The economic downturn may affect the Company’s real estate business. The downturn in the United States economy in general, and the real estate industry specifically, has negatively affected our real estate operation that develops, leases and sells residential properties in Rapid City, South Dakota. Currently, our real estate operation is marketing two condominium developments. To date only a small number of condominium units have been sold. Our real estate operation plans to build additional condominium buildings and units only upon the achievement of the sale of a substantial number of the currently available condominium units. Unless the United States economy and the real estate market improve, we may be forced to sell the condominium units at a loss or attempt to lease them, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 