ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation is subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Many of these risks are outside of the Corporation's direct control. In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference into this report, readers should carefully consider the following important factors which, among others, could materially impact the Corporation's business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Corporation’s Pending Merger with BMO On December 17, 2010, the Corporation entered into a definitive merger agreement under which BMO will acquire all outstanding shares of the Corporation’s common stock in a stock-for-stock transaction. There can be no assurance that the merger with BMO will be completed. In connection with the pending merger, certain additional risks and uncertainties should also be considered, including, without limitation: · attrition of deposits and customers, operating costs and business disruption before and following the completion of the pending merger, including potential difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, may be greater than expected; · the inability to obtain governmental approvals of the pending merger on the proposed terms and schedule; and · the failure of the Corporation’s shareholders to approve the pending merger and/or the failure of the parties to complete the merger on the proposed terms and schedule. Federal and state agency regulation and enforcement actions could limit the Corporation’s activities, increase the Corporation’s cost structures or have other negative effects on the Corporation. The Corporation, its subsidiary banks and many of its non-bank subsidiaries are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is designed primarily to protect consumers, depositors and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could affect the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products the Corporation may offer, increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products and/or increasing the Corporation’s cost structures. The Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have issued policy statements generally requiring insured banks and bank holding companies only to pay dividends out of current operating earnings. On February 24, 2009, the Federal Reserve Board released supervisory letter SR 09-4 (the “SR 09-4”) to provide direction to bank holding companies on, among other things, the declaration and payment of dividends. SR 09-4 states that, as a general matter, a bank holding company should inform the Federal Reserve and should eliminate, defer or significantly reduce its dividends if (i) the bank holding company’s net income available to shareholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends, (ii) the bank holding company’s prospective rate of earnings is not consistent with the bank holding company’s capital needs 10 Table of Contents and overall current and prospective financial condition, or (iii) the bank holding company will not meet, or is in danger of not meeting, its minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. It is possible that the Corporation will determine or will be required under SR 09-4 to eliminate, defer or significantly reduce the dividends on its common stock, the Senior Preferred Stock, or both. In addition, the Corporation is currently required to obtain the prior approvals of the Federal Reserve and the DFI to pay a cash dividend on its common stock. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to obtain such approvals in future quarters. The inability of the Corporation to continue to pay dividends on its common stock or on the Senior Preferred Stock could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock and could have consequences under the Letter Agreement relating to the Corporation’s participation in the UST’s Capital Purchase Program. Federal and state regulators also have the ability to impose substantial restrictions and requirements on the Corporation’s bank and non-bank subsidiaries to the extent they determine that the Corporation or its subsidiaries have violated laws to which they are subject or have weaknesses or failures with respect to general standards of safety or soundness. Enforcement of these restrictions may be formal or informal, and can include directors’ resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written agreements, cease and desist orders, civil money penalties or termination of deposit insurance and bank closures. Certain enforcement actions are not publicly disclosed by federal and state regulators. While enforcement actions may be taken without regard to the capital level of an institution, institutions that are not sufficiently capitalized in accordance with regulatory standards may also face capital directives or prompt corrective action. Enforcement actions may require corrective steps, impose limits on activities such as acquisitions, branching, lending or deposit taking, prescribe lending parameters or require additional capital to be raised, any of which could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations, damage the Corporation’s reputation, cause it to incur significant expenses or restrict it from engaging in potentially profitable activities. The Corporation’s earnings are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions, including credit risk and interest rate risk. The Corporation’s business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States and, in particular, the states where it has significant operations, including Wisconsin, Arizona, Indiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Kansas and Florida. M&I Bank FSB, a subsidiary of the Corporation, is headquartered in Nevada, but its activities are primarily outside of Nevada and it has no significant exposure to economic conditions in that state. The general business and economic conditions described above include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, the strength of the U.S. and local economies, real estate values, consumer spending, borrowing and saving habits, all of which are beyond the Corporation’s control. For example, an economic downturn, increase in unemployment or higher interest rates could decrease the demand for loans and other products and services and/or result in a deterioration in credit quality and/or loan performance and collectability. Nonpayment of loans could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Higher interest rates also could increase the Corporation’s cost to borrow funds and increase the rate the Corporation pays on deposits. The Corporation’s real estate loans expose the Corporation to increased credit risks. A substantial portion of the Corporation’s loan and lease portfolio consists of real estate-related loans, including construction and development, commercial and residential mortgage loans, as well as home equity loans and lines of credit. As a result, the deterioration in the U.S. real estate markets, along with the deterioration in the U.S. economy as a whole, has led to an increase in nonperforming loans and charge-offs, and the Corporation has had to increase its allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, lower property values have resulted in lower values for collateral securing some of these loans. Further deterioration in the commercial or residential real estate markets and in the U.S. economy would increase the Corporation’s exposure to real estate-related credit risk and cause the Corporation to further increase its allowance for loan and lease losses, all of which would have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Various factors may cause the Corporation’s allowance for loan and lease losses to increase. The Corporation’s allowance for loan and lease losses represents management’s estimate of probable losses inherent in the Corporation’s loan and lease portfolio. Management evaluates the allowance each quarter to determine that it is adequate to absorb these inherent losses. This evaluation is supported by a methodology that identifies estimated losses based on assessments of individual problem loans and historical loss patterns of homogeneous loan pools. In addition, environmental factors unique to each measurement date are also considered, including economic conditions in certain geographic or industry segments of the loan portfolio, economic trends, risk profile and portfolio 11 Table of Contents composition. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses is highly subjective and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If actual losses exceed the estimate, the excess losses could adversely affect the Corporation’s net income and capital. Such excess losses may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, many of which are outside of the Corporation’s control, may also require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the adequacy of the Corporation’s allowance for loan and lease losses. These agencies may require the Corporation to establish additional allowances for loan and lease losses based on their judgment of the information available at the time of their examinations. Any increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and would have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation cannot provide any assurance that it will not sustain losses in excess of its allowance for loan and lease losses or that the Corporation will not be required to increase such allowance. A failure by the Corporation to maintain required levels of capital could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation. Banking regulations require the Corporation to maintain adequate levels of capital, in order to support its operations and fund outstanding liabilities. Furthermore, given current economic conditions, bank regulators expect banks to maintain capital levels well above statutory requirements. Each of the Corporation’s subsidiary banks is required, or expected, to maintain specific capital levels. If any of the subsidiary banks fails to maintain the required, or expected, capital levels, the subsidiary banks could be subject to various sanctions by federal regulators that could adversely impact the Corporation. Such sanctions could potentially include, without limitation, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, limitations on the subsidiary banks’ ability to pay dividends to the Corporation and the issuance of a capital directive by a federal regulatory authority requiring an increase in capital. The Corporation’s ability and the ability of its subsidiary banks to raise additional capital, if needed, may be impaired by changes and trends in the capital markets that are outside the Corporation’s control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Corporation or its subsidiary banks will be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to the Corporation or its subsidiary banks. The Dodd-Frank Act will have a significant impact on the business and operations of the Corporation and its banking subsidiaries and will substantially increase their cost of doing business, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition. It is anticipated that the Corporation, including some or all of its banking subsidiaries, will become subject to the following provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, any or all of which may directly or indirectly increase their costs of doing business, in some cases materially: · increased federal deposit insurance premiums to fund shortfalls in the FDIC’s deposit insurance fund; · provisions designed to address perceived industry-wide deficiencies in the residential mortgage loan underwriting process, in part by creating new documentation requirements and underwriting criteria, and increasing the Corporation’s and its banking subsidiaries’ potential liability to their customers if they fail to take steps to ensure and document that each borrower has the capacity and ability to repay their loans; · increased regulatory oversight of our consumer lending functions through the establishment of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; and · increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements applicable to large bank holding companies. In addition, certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will restrict and/or prohibit the Corporation and/or M&I Bank from engaging in certain business activities, such as proprietary trading, private equity investments and certain hedging activities. There can be no assurance that such restrictions and prohibitions will not have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant proportion of the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions will not become effective until the various federal bank and other regulatory agencies propose and issue regulations to give effect to those provisions. The 12 Table of Contents Corporation will continue to conduct its banking and other operations and make strategic decisions about its business during this period of legal and regulatory uncertainty consistent with existing federal and state law and the Dodd-Frank Act. There can be no assurance that the Corporation’s or its banking subsidiaries business decisions and strategic initiatives made in response to the applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, or in anticipation of the scope, content and application of the regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act, will be the correct decisions that will enable them to conduct business in a competitive manner, or that their competitors will not implement strategic initiatives to address or minimize the cost of complying with the Dodd-Frank Act or the regulations that will be more successful than those employed by the Corporation or its banking subsidiaries. The Corporation expects that compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations that will be adopted thereunder may create significant additional costs to its operations and those of M&I Bank and may negatively impact their competitive position, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that legislation enacted to help stabilize the U.S. financial system will be effective in doing so. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) was signed into law in 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the UST was granted the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. The UST announced a Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”) under the EESA pursuant to which has purchased and will continue to purchase senior preferred stock in participating financial institutions. On November 14, 2008, the Corporation entered into a Letter Agreement, and the related Securities Purchase Agreement – Standard Terms attached thereto, with the UST providing for the issuance to the UST of the Corporation’s Senior Preferred Stock, Series B and a warrant to purchase shares of the Corporation’s common stock at a specified price. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (the “ARRA”) was signed into law. The purpose of the ARRA is to make supplemental appropriations for job preservation and creation, infrastructure investment, energy efficiency and science, assistance to the unemployed, and state and local fiscal stabilization. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The purpose of the Dodd-Frank Act is to promote the financial stability of the United States by improving accountability and transparency in the financial system, to protect consumers from abusive financial services practices, and for other purposes. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that are most likely to affect the Corporation are described elsewhere in this report. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that these legislative initiatives will have on the financial markets or on the Corporation. The failure of these programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock. The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Corporation. The Corporation’s ability to engage in funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and failure of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Corporation has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, insurers, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even questions or rumors about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Corporation or other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, the Corporation’s credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral it holds cannot be relied upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of exposure of the Corporation. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption since 2008. Recently, this volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels, and in many cases has produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to the underlying financial strength of those 13 Table of Contents issuers. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that such conditions will not have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s stock price can be volatile. The Corporation’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including the factors described elsewhere in these Risk Factors and the following additional factors: · actual or anticipated variations in the Corporation’s quarterly results; · changes or contemplated changes in government regulations; · unanticipated losses or gains due to unexpected events, including losses or gains on securities held for investment purposes; · credit quality ratings; · new technology or services offered by the Corporation’s competitors; · significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Corporation or its competitors; · changes in accounting policies or practices; · failure to successfully integrate the Corporation’s acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from the Corporation’s acquisitions; or · announcements or events that affect the price of shares of BMO common stock. Changes in the Corporation’s credit ratings could adversely affect the Corporation’s liquidity and financial condition. The credit ratings of the Corporation and its subsidiaries are important factors in the Corporation’s ability to access certain types of liquidity. A downgrade in the credit ratings of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries could potentially increase the cost of debt, limit the Corporation’s access to capital markets, require the Corporation to post collateral, or negatively impact the Corporation’s profitability. Furthermore, a downgrade of the credit rating of securities issued by the Corporation or its subsidiaries could adversely affect the ability of the holders to sell those securities. Sales or other dilution of the Corporation’s equity may adversely affect the market price of the Corporation’s common stock. During 2009, the Corporation issued a significant number of shares of its common stock. The issuance of these additional shares of common stock resulted in a material increase of outstanding shares of common stock at December 31, 2009, compared with December 31, 2008, and those additional shares were significantly dilutive to existing common shareholders. The Corporation continually evaluates opportunities to access capital markets, taking into account its regulatory capital ratios, financial condition, and other relevant conditions. Subject to market conditions, it is possible that the Corporation may take further capital actions. Terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts and natural disasters could negatively affect the Corporation’s business and financial condition. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts (including conflict in the Middle East), natural disasters, and the actions taken by the U.S. and other governments in response to such events, could disrupt business operations and negatively impact general business and economic conditions in the U.S. If terrorist activity, acts of war, other international hostilities or natural disasters disrupt business operations, trigger technology delays or failures, or damage physical facilities of the Corporation, its customers or service providers, or cause an overall economic decline, the financial condition and operating results of the Corporation could be materially adversely affected. The potential for future occurrences of these events has created many economic and political uncertainties that could seriously harm the Corporation’s business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. 14 Table of Contents The Corporation’s earnings also are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies, which could affect repayment of loans and thereby materially adversely affect the Corporation. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board impact the Corporation significantly. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of financial instruments the Corporation holds. Those policies determine to a significant extent the Corporation’s cost of funds for lending and investing. Changes in those policies are beyond the Corporation’s control and are difficult to predict. Federal Reserve Board policies can affect the Corporation’s borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve Board could reduce the demand for a borrower’s products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower’s earnings and ability to repay its loan, which could materially adversely affect the Corporation. The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation operates in a highly competitive environment in the products and services the Corporation offers and the markets in which the Corporation serves. The competition among financial services providers to attract and retain customers is intense. Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor’s new products, especially offerings that provide cost savings to the customer. Some of the Corporation’s competitors may be better able to provide a wider range of products and services over a greater geographic area. The Corporation believes the banking and financial services industry will become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continued consolidation of the industry. Technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. Also, investment banks and insurance companies are competing in more banking businesses such as syndicated lending and consumer banking. Many of the Corporation’s competitors are subject to fewer regulatory constraints and have lower cost structures. The Corporation expects the consolidation of the banking and financial services industry to result in larger, better-capitalized companies offering a wide array of financial services and products. The Corporation is subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities, which, if not resolved in the Corporation’s favor, could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. In the normal course of business, the Corporation and its affiliates are routinely subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments it has made and the businesses in which it is engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in the Corporation’s favor, they could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could result in a loss of income to the Corporation. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks at one or both ends of the transaction. For example, consumers can now pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. Maintaining or increasing the Corporation’s market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services and other factors, and the Corporation’s failure to achieve such acceptance and approval could harm its market share. The Corporation’s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its products and services to evolving industry standards and to control expenses. There is increasing pressure on financial services companies to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce the Corporation’s net interest margin and revenues from its fee- 15 Table of Contents based products and services. In addition, the Corporation’s success depends in part on its ability to generate significant levels of new business in its existing markets and in identifying and penetrating new markets. Growth rates for card-based payment transactions and other product markets may not continue at recent levels. Further, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including Internet-based services, could require the Corporation to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing products and services or render the Corporation’s existing products obsolete. The Corporation may not successfully introduce new products and services, achieve market acceptance of its products and services, develop and maintain loyal customers and/or break into targeted markets. The Corporation relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for most of its revenue, and the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries hold a significant portion of their assets indirectly. The Corporation is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries, and receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Corporation’s common stock and interest on its debt. The payment of dividends by a banking subsidiary is subject to federal law restrictions and to the laws of the subsidiary’s state of incorporation, and payment of dividends by M&I Bank is subject to prior approval of the Federal Reserve and the DFI, and with respect to M&I Bank FSB, the OTS. In addition, a parent company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Furthermore, the Company’s banking and federal savings bank subsidiaries hold a significant portion of their mortgage loan and investment portfolios indirectly through their ownership interests in direct and indirect subsidiaries. The inability of the Corporation’s banking subsidiaries to pay dividends to the Corporation for any of the reasons described above could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation depends on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties, and inaccurate or incomplete information could negatively impact the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, the Corporation may rely on information provided to it by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. The Corporation may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, the Corporation may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform to generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. The Corporation may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. The Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent it relies on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or that are materially misleading. An interruption or breach in security of the Corporation’s or the Corporation’s third party service providers’ communications and information technologies could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business. The Corporation relies heavily on communications and information technology to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Corporation’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. Despite the Corporation’s policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of such a failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such events will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Corporation’s information systems could damage the Corporation’s reputation, result in a loss of customers or customer business, subject the Corporation to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Corporation to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Corporation relies on third-party service providers for a substantial portion of its communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of these third-party service providers experiences financial, operational or technological difficulties or if there is any other disruption in the Corporation’s relationships with them, the Corporation may be required to locate alternative sources for these services. There can be no assurance that the Corporation could negotiate terms as favorable to the Corporation or obtain services with similar functionality as it currently has without the expenditure of substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect the Corporation’s business. 16 Table of Contents The Corporation’s accounting policies and methods are the basis of how the Corporation reports its financial condition and results of operations, and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. The Corporation’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the Corporation records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with GAAP and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in the Corporation’s reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. The Corporation has identified three accounting policies as being “critical” to the presentation of its financial condition and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective and/or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. These critical accounting policies relate to: (1) the allowance for loan and lease losses, (2) income taxes, and (3) fair value measurements. Because of the inherent uncertainty of estimates about these matters, no assurance can be given that the application of alternative policies or methods might not result in the Corporation’s reporting materially different amounts. Changes in accounting standards could adversely affect the Corporation’s reported financial results. The bodies that set accounting standards for public companies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC and others, periodically change or revise existing interpretations of the accounting and reporting standards that govern the way that the Corporation reports its financial condition and results of operations. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact the Corporation’s reported financial results. In some cases, the Corporation could be required to apply a new or revised accounting standard, or a new or revised interpretation of an accounting standard, retroactively, which could have a negative impact on reported results or result in the restatement of the Corporation’s financial statements for prior periods. The Corporation is dependent on senior management, and the loss of the services of any of the Corporation’s senior executive officers could cause the Corporation’s business to suffer. The Corporation’s continued success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of its senior management. The loss of services of any of the Corporation’s senior executive officers could cause the Corporation’s business to suffer. In addition, the Corporation’s success depends in part upon senior management’s ability to implement the Corporation’s business strategy. The Corporation may be a defendant in a variety of litigation and other actions, which may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. The Corporation and its subsidiaries may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation arising out of the Corporation’s business. The Corporation’s insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it, and any claims asserted against the Corporation, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm the Corporation’s reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed the Corporation’s insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, operating results and financial condition and cash flows. In addition, the Corporation may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may the Corporation be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. If the Corporation’s share distribution and transactions related to the separation of the Corporation and its data processing subsidiary formerly known as Metavante Corporation in November 2007 do not qualify as tax-free distributions or reorganizations under the Internal Revenue Code, then the Corporation and the Corporation’s shareholders may be responsible for payment of significant U.S. federal income taxes. In transactions related to the separation of the Corporation and its data processing subsidiary formerly known as Metavante Corporation in November 2007, old M&I distributed shares of its common stock to effect the separation. If the share distribution does not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, Metavante Corporation’s successor entity would recognize a taxable gain that would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to Metavante Corporation’s successor entity. Metavante Corporation’s successor entity would be primarily liable for these taxes and the Corporation would be secondarily liable. Under the terms of a tax allocation agreement related to the separation, the Corporation will generally be required to 17 Table of Contents indemnify against any such taxes unless such taxes would not have been imposed but for an act of Metavante Corporation’s successor entity, subject to specified exceptions. Even if the Corporation’s share distribution otherwise qualifies as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the distribution would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to Metavante Corporation’s successor entity if there is an acquisition of the Corporation’s common stock or the stock of Metavante Corporation’s successor entity as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Corporation’s share distribution and that results in an acquisition of 50% or more of such stock. In this situation, the Corporation may be required to indemnify Metavante Corporation’s successor entity under the terms of a tax allocation agreement related to the separation unless such taxes would not have been imposed but for specified acts of Metavante Corporation’s successor entity. In addition, mutual indemnity obligations in the tax allocation agreement could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire the Corporation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 