ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face a variety of significant and diverse risks, many of which are inherent in our business. Described below are the risks we currently believe could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Risks Related to Our Business Our primary source of revenue is derived from management fees, which are directly tied to our assets under management. Fluctuations in AUM may directly impact our revenue and earnings. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from management fees paid by our clients, based on a percentage of the market value of our AUM. Any decline and/or significant impairment in AUM may greatly affect our revenue and earnings and could occur due to a variety of factors, including: • Poor performance of our strategies: Poor performance of our investment strategies may result in decreased market value of AUM. In addition, underperformance could impact our ability to maintain our existing client base and develop new relationships, both of which could negatively impact AUM. • Poor market environment: We could expect our business to generate lower revenue in a depressed equities market or general economic downturn. Any decline in the market value of securities held in client portfolios due to such adverse conditions could lower AUM significantly and lead to a decrease in revenue. Investor sentiment in a poor equities market environment could also decrease inflows and increase outflows from our investment strategies in favor of investments perceived as more attractive. • Geo-political conditions: As a company that invests in both U.S. and non-U.S. markets, and with a global client base, our business is subject to changing conditions in the global financial markets, and may also be affected by worldwide political, social and economic conditions, all of which could negatively impact AUM. • Termination of significant relationships: As of December 31, 2012, four client relationships represented 45% of our AUM. For the year ended December 31, 2012, these relationships represented 22% of our total revenue. Our clients can generally terminate our advisory agreements or reduce assets managed upon short notice and for any reason, and there can be no assurance that our agreements with respect to these relationships will remain in place. The termination of any of these relationships could significantly reduce our revenue and earnings, and we may not be able to establish relationships with other clients in order to replace the lost revenue and earnings. • Intermediary dependence: New accounts sourced through consultant-led searches have been a large driver of our inflows in the past, and are expected to be a major component of our inflows going forward. In addition, we have established relationships with certain mutual fund providers who have offered us opportunities to access certain market segments through sub-investment advisory roles. We have also accessed the high-net worth segment of the investing community through relationships with well-respected wealth advisers who utilize our investment strategies in investment programs they construct for their clients. Our intermediaries routinely review and evaluate our organization and the services we offer, and poor evaluations may result in client outflows and impact our ability to attract new assets through such intermediaries. During 2012, the majority of our investment strategies have outperformed their benchmarks, particularly those with European exposure. Improved market conditions for the year have significantly contributed to asset inflows. However, no assurance can be given that improved market conditions will continue indefinitely, and there can be no assurance that there will not be declines in our AUM, revenue and profitability in the future. Market pressures to lower our advisory fees could lead to a decline in our profit margin and increase the volatility of our revenue and earnings. Market pressures in recent years have created a trend towards lower fees in the asset management industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current fee structure going 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS forward. Additionally, a shift in the composition of our AUM from higher to lower fee-generating client relationships may result in a decrease in revenue, even if our aggregate level of AUM remains unchanged or increases. A small portion of our investment advisory revenue is currently derived from performance fees. We generally earn performance fees under certain client agreements according to the performance in the accounts relative to an agreed-upon benchmark. This fee structure results in a lower base fee but allows for us to earn higher fees if the investment strategy outperforms the benchmark. In addition, some performance-based fee arrangements include high-water mark provisions, which generally provide that if a client account underperforms relative to its performance target, it must gain back such underperformance before we can collect future performance-based fees. Therefore, if we fail to achieve the performance target for a particular period, we will not earn a performance fee for that period and, for accounts with a high-water mark provision, our ability to earn future performance fees may be impaired. During fiscal years 2012 and 2011, we earned $0.3 million and $3.8 million in performance fees, respectively. An increase in performance fees, or in performance-based fee arrangements with clients, could create greater fluctuations in our revenue and earnings. The potential decreases in management fees and uncertainty in performance fee income could lead to volatility in our profit margins and impact our revenue and earnings. Loss of key employees, and difficulties in attracting qualified investment professionals, could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our strategies, which may lead to a decrease in revenue and profitability. The success of our business largely depends on the participation of Richard S. Pzena, John P. Goetz, William L. Lipsey, Antonio DeSpirito, III, and Michael D. Peterson, our CEO, two Presidents, and two Executive Vice Presidents, respectively. Their professional reputations, expertise in investing, and relationships with our clients and within the investing community in the U.S. and abroad are critical to executing our business strategy and attracting and retaining clients. Accordingly, the retention of these individuals is crucial to our future success. There is no guarantee that they will not resign, join our competitors or form a competing company. The terms of the current operating agreement of our operating company restrict each of these individuals from competing with us or soliciting our clients or employees during the term of their employment with us and for a certain period thereafter. The penalty for breach of these restrictive covenants will be the forfeiture of a number of Class B units held by the individual and his permitted transferees as of the earlier of the date of his breach or the termination of his employment, unless our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, determines otherwise. Although we may also seek specific performance of these restrictive covenants, there can be no assurance that we would be successful in obtaining this relief. Further, after this post-employment restrictive period, we will not be able to prohibit them from competing with us or soliciting our clients or employees. If any of these individuals were to join a competitor or form a competing company, some of our current clients or other prominent members of the investing community could choose to invest with that competitor rather than us. In addition, our success depends on our ability to retain the senior members of our investment team and to recruit additional qualified investment professionals. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to retain them, as the market for investment professionals is extremely competitive. Our portfolio managers possess substantial experience and expertise in investing and, in particular, our classic value investment approach, which requires significant qualitative judgments as to the future earnings power of currently underperforming businesses. Our portfolio managers also have significant relationships with our clients. Accordingly, the loss of any of our senior investment professionals could limit our ability to successfully execute our classic value investment approach and, therefore, sustain the performance of our investment strategies, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of revenue and earnings. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS Future growth of our business may place significant demands on our resources and employees, and may increase our expenses. Future growth of our business may place significant demands on our infrastructure, our investment team and other employees, which may increase our expenses. In addition, we are required to continuously develop our infrastructure in response to the increasing sophistication of the investment management market, as well as compliance with legal and regulatory developments. We may face significant challenges in maintaining: adequate financial and operational controls; implementing new or updated information and financial systems, and procedures and training; and managing and appropriately sizing our work force, and other components of our business on a timely and cost-effective basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage the growth of our business effectively, or that we will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses. The potential inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. In recent years, we have substantially upgraded and expanded the capabilities of our data processing systems and other operating technology, and we expect that we will need to continue to upgrade and expand these capabilities in the future to avoid disruption of, or constraints on, our operations. We face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting operations and growing our business in numerous countries. We offer investment management services in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. In order to remain competitive, we must be proactive and prepared to deploy necessary resources when growth opportunities present themselves. The necessary resources and/or personnel may be unavailable to take full advantage of strategic opportunities when they appear, or that strategic decisions can be efficiently implemented. Local regulatory environments may vary widely, as well as the adequacy and sophistication of each. Local requirements or needs may also place additional demands on sales and compliance personnel and resources, such as meeting local requirements and complying with local industry standards. Finding and hiring additional, well-qualified personnel and crafting and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements remain a challenge as we expand our operations internationally. Moreover, regulators in non-U.S. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to offer our investment products in their respective markets. Any of these local requirements, activities, or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenue and income from operating in the jurisdiction. The investment management business is intensely competitive. Competition in the investment management business is based on a variety of factors, including investment performance; investor perception of an investment manager’s drive, focus and alignment of interest; quality of service provided to, and duration of, relationships with clients; business reputation; and level of fees charged for services. We compete in all aspects of our business with a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, broker-dealers, insurance companies and other financial institutions. Our competitive risks are heightened by the fact that some of our competitors may invest according to different investment styles or in alternative asset classes which the markets may perceive as more attractive than our investment approach in the public equity markets. If we are unable to compete effectively, our revenue could be reduced, and our business could be materially affected. A change of control could result in termination of our sub-investment advisory and investment advisory agreements. Pursuant to the Investment Company Act, each of the sub-investment advisory agreements for the SEC-registered mutual funds that we sub-advise automatically terminates upon its deemed “assignment,” and a fund’s board and shareholders must approve a new agreement in order for us to continue to act as its sub-investment adviser. In addition, pursuant to the Investment Advisers Act, each of our investment advisory 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS agreements for the separate accounts we manage may not be “assigned” without the consent of the client. A sale of a controlling block of our voting securities and certain other transactions would be deemed an “assignment” pursuant to both the Investment Company Act and the Investment Advisers Act. Such an assignment may be deemed to occur in the event that the holders of the Class B units of our operating company exchange enough of their Class B units for shares of our Class A common stock such that they no longer own a controlling interest in us. If such a deemed assignment occurs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary consents from clients whose funds are managed pursuant to separate accounts, or the necessary approvals from the boards and shareholders of the SEC-registered funds that we sub-advise. An assignment, actual or constructive, would trigger these termination and consent provisions and, unless the necessary approvals and consents are obtained, could adversely affect our ability to continue managing client accounts, resulting in the loss of AUM and a corresponding loss of revenue. Extensive regulation of our business has been and will be expensive and time consuming, and exposes us to the potential for significant penalties, including fines or limitations on our ability to conduct our business. We are subject to extensive regulation of our investment management business and operations. As a registered investment adviser, the SEC oversees our activities pursuant to its regulatory authority under the Investment Advisers Act. In addition, we must comply with certain requirements under the Investment Company Act with respect to the SEC-registered funds for which we act as sub-investment adviser. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of financial services, including the authority to grant, and, in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular businesses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as an investment adviser. Even if a sanction imposed against us is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of such sanctions by regulators could harm our reputation, result in withdrawal by our clients and/or impede our ability to retain clients and develop new client relationships. As we expand into the international market, we will also be under the regulatory scope of local regulatory authorities and non-compliance with any of these authorities may result in fines, sanctions and inability to operate in that local market. We also face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations, and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us, and are not designed to protect our stockholders. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to ongoing modification and further regulation. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (“the Dodd-Frank Act”) is one such example. While we do not believe that the Dodd-Frank Act will fundamentally change the investment management industry, certain provisions may have unintended consequences on the financial market as a whole that could negatively affect our business. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are still subject to rulemaking and will continue to take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate both the impact on the manner in which we conduct business as well as the increased regulatory requirements and related compliance costs. Also, we are required to implement specific corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley” or “SOX”). Our management is required to conduct an annual assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and include a report on our internal controls in our annual reports on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 404 of SOX. In addition, we are required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We will continue to incur costs in order to maintain our internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404 of SOX, including necessary auditing and legal fees, and costs associated with accounting, internal audit, information technology, compliance and administrative staff. If we are unable to maintain effective internal 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS control over financial reporting, this could lead to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, thus adversely affecting the value of our common stock. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to income as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions. We are also subject to potential tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these potential audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these potential audits, and the actual outcomes of these potential audits could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate and earnings. Certain changes in accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC or other standard-setting bodies could have a material impact on our financial position or results of our operations. We are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”), which are periodically revised and/or expanded. As such, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by recognized accounting standard setters or regulators, such as the FASB and the SEC. In addition, the FASB is currently working with the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) to converge certain accounting principles and to facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies that are required to follow GAAP and those that are required to follow International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). These projects may result in different accounting principles under GAAP, which may have a material impact on the way in which we report financial results. A change in accounting principles from GAAP to IFRS would also have a material impact on our financial statements should IFRS be incorporated into the financial reporting system for U.S. companies. Inadequate business continuity plans could lead to material financial loss, reputational harm and inability to continue business. We rely heavily on our financial, accounting, trading, compliance and other data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these systems, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, act of terrorism or war, security breach or otherwise, could result in a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage, and thus materially adversely affect our business. Although we have back-up systems in place and have taken other protective measures, our back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of a failure or interruption may not be adequate and our technology system may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact. We depend on our headquarters in New York City for the continued operation of our business. A disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business, or directly affecting our headquarters, may have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. We have a sound business continuity plan in place that is tested on a yearly basis, but there can be no assurance that this plan will be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. Operational risks, including any significant limitation, failure or security breach of our software applications, technology or other systems critical to our operations, may disrupt our business or cause us to lose sensitive and confidential information. As part of our normal operations, we rely on secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential client and firm information through computer systems and networks. Breach of such systems and networks could lead to loss of confidential client and proprietary information, liability for stolen information, additional cost to repair damage and prevent future incidents and litigation cost from loss of information. We maintain 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS and rely on a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data is prevented or timely detected. However, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access or may be corrupted by computer virus, malicious software or access by unauthorized individuals especially when related to portable devices. We take precautions to password protect all portable devices but that will not prevent unauthorized access if the device is misplaced or lost. Loss of confidential information will greatly harm our reputation and adversely affect our ability to maintain current or attract new relationships. The investment management industry faces substantial litigation risks which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us. We depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, dissatisfaction with our services could be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses. If our clients suffer significant losses, or are otherwise dissatisfied with our services, such as for breach of trading guidelines and/or perceived conflicts of interest, we could be subject to the risk of legal liabilities or actions alleging negligent misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty, or breach of contract. These risks are often difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. We may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause significant reputational harm to us. For information on our legal proceedings, see “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” Insurance coverage may not protect us from all of the liabilities that could arise from the risks inherent in our business. We maintain insurance coverage focused on reducing potential losses related to our operations. We purchase insurance in amounts, and against risks, that we consider appropriate. There can be no assurance, however, that a claim or claims will be completely covered by insurance or, if covered, will not exceed the limits of our existing insurance coverage. If a loss occurs that is partially or completely uninsured, we may be exposed to substantial liability. Insurance costs are impacted by market conditions, our risk profile, and may increase significantly over relatively short periods. Renewals of insurance policies may result in additional costs through higher premiums or the assumption of higher deductibles or co-insurance liability. Furthermore, we do not carry any “key man” insurance that would provide us with proceeds in the event of the death or disability of any of our key employees. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business and could impact our future performance. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses in the event our business continuity plan fails and our operations are significantly disrupted. Risks Related to Our Investment Strategies Our classic value investments subject the performance of our investment strategies to the risk that the companies in which we invest may not achieve the level of earnings recovery that we initially expect, or at all. We generally invest in companies after they have experienced, or are expected by the market to soon experience, a shortfall in their historic earnings, due to an adverse business development, management error, accounting scandal or other disruption, and before there is clear evidence of earnings recovery or business momentum. While very few investors are willing to invest when companies lack earnings visibility, our classic value investment approach seeks to capture the return that can be obtained by investing in a company before the market has confidence in its ability to achieve earnings recovery. However, our investment approach entails the risk that the companies included in our portfolios are not able to execute as we had expected when we originally invested in them, thereby reducing the performance of our strategies. Since our positions in these investments are often substantial, there is the risk that we may be unable to find willing purchasers for our investments when we decide to sell them. Many of our strategies construct concentrated portfolios, 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS generally ranging from 30 to 80 holdings, of companies underperforming their historical earnings power, which is subject to a higher risk of underperformance relative to benchmarks than the investment approaches of some of our competitors. Since we apply the same investment process across all of our investment strategies, utilizing one analyst team, and given the overlapping universes of many of our investment strategies, we could have common positions and industry or sector concentrations across many of our investment strategies at the same time. As such, factors leading one of our investment strategies to underperform may lead other strategies to underperform simultaneously. Our investment approach may underperform other investment approaches during certain market conditions. Our products are best suited for investors with long-term investment horizons. In order for our classic value investment approach to yield attractive returns, we must typically hold securities for an average of three to five years. Our investment strategies may not perform well during certain periods of time. The disruption in the global credit markets and the deterioration of the economy and the financial markets beginning in the second half of 2007, and continuing through early 2009, created difficult conditions for most companies, including many of those in which we invest. In addition, our strategies may not perform well during points in the economic cycle when value-oriented stocks are relatively less attractive. For instance, during the late stages of an economic cycle, investors may purchase relatively expensive stocks in order to obtain access to above average growth, as was the case in the late 1990s. Value-oriented strategies may also experience weakness during periods when the markets are focused on one investment thesis or sector. Even when securities prices are rising generally, portfolio performance can be affected by our investment approach. The classic value approach has outperformed the market in some economic and market environments and underperformed it in others. In particular, a prolonged period in which the growth style of investing outperforms the value style may cause our investment strategy to go out of favor with clients, consultants and sub-advised relationships. Our investment strategy may be less favored during certain time periods for other reasons as well, including due to perceived riskiness or volatility of our approach. Poor performance relative to peers, coupled with changes in personnel, extensive periods in particular market environments, or other difficulties may result in decline in AUM. Our investment process requires us to conduct extensive fundamental research on any company before investing, which may result in missed investment opportunities and reduce the performance of our investment strategies. We take a considerable amount of time to complete the in-depth research projects that our investment process requires before adding any security to our portfolio. Our process requires that we take this time to understand the company and the business well enough to make an informed decision as to whether we are willing to own a significant position in a company that does not yet have earnings visibility. However, the time we take to make this judgment may cause us to miss the opportunity to invest in a company that has a sharp and rapid earnings recovery. Any such missed investment opportunities could adversely impact the performance of our investment strategies. Our Global Focused Value, International (ex-US) Focused Value, Global Expanded Value, International (ex-US) Expanded Value, European Focused Value and Emerging Markets Focused Value strategies consist primarily of investments in the securities of issuers located outside of the United States, which may involve foreign currency exchange, political, social and economic uncertainties and risks. Our Global Focused Value, International (ex-US) Focused Value, Global Expanded Value, International (ex-US) Expanded Value, European Focused Value and Emerging Markets Focused Value strategies, which together represented $6.2 billion, $5.6 billion, and $5.5 billion of our AUM as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, are primarily invested in securities of companies located outside the United States. Investments in non-U.S. issuers may be affected by political, social and economic uncertainty affecting a country or region in which we are invested. Many emerging financial markets are not as developed, or as efficient, as the U.S. financial market, and, as a result, liquidity may be reduced and price volatility may 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS increase. The legal and regulatory environments, including financial accounting standards and practices, may also be different, and there may be less publicly available information in respect of such companies. These risks could adversely impact the performance of our strategies that are invested in securities of non-U.S. issuers. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will affect AUM as we do not engage in any hedging activities for these portfolios and continue to market these products as unhedged. Due to these factors, our AUM may fluctuate from one reporting period to another causing volatility in earnings. Risks Related to Our Structure We are dependent upon distributions from our operating company to make distributions to our Class A stockholders, and to pay taxes and other expenses. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our ownership of membership units of our operating company. We have no independent means of generating revenue and cash flow. Our operating company is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, is not itself subject to U.S. federal income tax. Instead, its taxable income is allocated to its members, including us, pro-rata according to the number of membership units each owns. Accordingly, we incur income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of our operating company. We also incur expenses related to our operations. We intend to have our operating company distribute cash to its members in an amount at least equal to that necessary to cover their tax liabilities, if any, with respect to the earnings of our operating company. To the extent we need funds to pay our tax or other liabilities or to fund our operations, and our operating company is restricted from making distributions to us under applicable laws or regulations, or contractual restrictions, or does not have sufficient earnings to make these distributions, we may have to borrow funds to meet these obligations and run our business and, thus, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that funds will be available to borrow under such circumstances on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We are required to pay certain former and current members of our operating company who sold to us membership units of our operating company in October 2007, and the other holders of Class B units of our operating company who subsequently have exchanged and will exchange their Class B units for shares of our Class A common stock, most of the tax benefit of any amortization deductions we may claim as a result of the tax basis step up we receive in connection with these sales of membership units and any future exchanges of Class B units. As part of the reorganization we implemented with our initial public offering (IPO), we purchased membership units of our operating company from three of its members, or the selling members. In addition, holders of Class B units may, at least once each year, exchange their Class B units of our operating company for shares of our Class A common stock. These purchases and subsequent exchanges have and are expected to continue to result in increases in our share of the tax basis in the tangible and intangible assets of our operating company that otherwise would not have been available. These increases in tax basis have and are expected to continue to reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) might challenge all or part of this tax basis increase, and a court might sustain such a challenge. Pursuant to a tax receivable agreement dated October 30, 2007, among the selling members, all holders of Class B units after our October 2007 IPO, and us, we are required to pay the selling members, and any holders of Class B units who elect to exchange their Class B units for shares of our Class A common stock, 85% of the amount of the cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that we realize as a result of the increases in amortizable tax basis due to the sale to us of their membership units. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of our income, and the tax rates then applicable. Payments under the tax receivable agreement are expected to give rise to certain additional tax benefits attributable to further increases in basis. Any such benefits are covered by the tax receivable agreement and will increase the amounts due thereunder. We expect that, as a 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS result of the size and increases in our share of the tax basis in the tangible and intangible assets of our operating company attributable to our interest therein, the payments that we may make to these members likely will be substantial. If we exercise our right to terminate the tax receivable agreement early, we will be obligated to make an early termination payment to the selling and converting shareholders, based upon the net present value of all payments that would be required to be paid by us. If certain change of control events were to occur, we would also be obligated to make an early termination payment. Were the IRS to successfully challenge the tax basis increases described above, we would not be reimbursed for any payments made under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances, we could be required to make payments under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders. The market price of our Class A common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume of our Class A common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our Class A common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares of our Class A common stock at or above your purchase price, if at all. We cannot assure you that the market price of our Class A common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline due to the large number of shares of our Class A common stock eligible for future sale upon the exchange of Class B units of our operating company. Pursuant to the operating agreement of our operating company, on at least one date designated by us each year, certain holders of Class B units may exchange up to 15% of their Class B units for an equivalent number of shares of our Class A common stock, subject to certain restrictions set forth in the operating agreement. Also, as of October 30, 2011, the fourth anniversary of our initial public offering, the non-employee members of our operating company may exchange all of their vested Class B units, in accordance with the timing restrictions set forth in the operating agreement. Pursuant to the resale and registration rights agreement, dated October 30, 2007, among the holders of Class B units and us, on at least one date designated by us each year these holders may resell the shares of Class A common stock issued to them upon the exchange of up to 15% of their Class B units, or, in the case of non-employee members, all of their Class B units. We filed a Form S-3 registration statement, which became effective in February 2009, in order to register our issuance to these holders of 57,937,910 shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exchange of all Class B units outstanding immediately after the consummation of our operating company’s reorganization. On January 27, 2012, the SEC declared effective a subsequent registration statement on Form S-3 which registers the resale of 40,114,701 shares of our Class A common stock by the selling stockholders named therein. We designated August 31, 2012, March 28, 2011, September 15, 2011 and March 31, 2010 as the 2012, 2011, and 2010 exchange dates. Certain executive officers, employee members, and non-employee members, elected to exchange an aggregate of 722,521, 536,528, 670,902 and 734,618, respectively, of their Class B units for an equivalent number of shares of our Class A common stock, which, with the exception of those held by our executive officers, are freely tradable. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales pursuant to the Form S-3 registration statements, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling equity securities in the future, at a time and price that we deem appropriate. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a change of control that our stockholders may favor, which could also adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of our preferred stock and to designate the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of our preferred stock, each without any vote or action by our stockholders. We could issue a series of preferred stock to impede the consummation of a merger, tender offer or other takeover attempt. The anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may impede takeover attempts, or other transactions, that may be in the best interests of our stockholders and, in particular, our Class A stockholders. In addition, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected to the extent that provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws discourage potential takeover attempts, or other transactions, that our stockholders may favor. Control by our Class B stockholders of 96.0% of the combined voting power of our common stock may give rise to conflicts of interest. Our Class B stockholders collectively hold approximately 96.0% of the combined voting power of our common stock. These stockholders consist of five of our named executive officers, 30 of our other employees, certain other members of our operating company, including one of our directors and his related entities, and six former employees. Holders of shares of our Class B common stock have entered into a Class B Stockholders’ Agreement with respect to all shares of Class B common stock then held by them and any additional shares of Class B common stock they may acquire in the future. Pursuant to this agreement, they will vote these shares of Class B common stock together on all matters submitted to a vote of our common stockholders. To the extent that we cause our operating company to issue additional Class B units, which may be granted, subject to vesting, to our employees pursuant to the PIM LLC 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, these employees will be entitled to receive an equivalent number of shares of our Class B common stock, subject to the condition that they agree to enter into this Class B Stockholders’ Agreement. Each share of our Class B common stock entitles its holder to five votes per share for so long as the Class B stockholders collectively hold 20% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding. When a Class B unit is exchanged for a share of our Class A common stock, an unvested Class B unit is forfeited due to the employee holder’s failure to satisfy the conditions of the award agreement pursuant to which it was granted, or any Class B unit is forfeited as a result of a breach of any restrictive covenants contained in our operating company’s amended and restated operating agreement, a corresponding share of our Class B common stock will automatically be redeemed by us. For so long as our Class B stockholders hold at least 20% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding, they will be able to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors and thereby control our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends. In addition, they will be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring approval of stockholders, and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our Company or a change in the composition of our Board of Directors, and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our Company. Our Class B stockholders have the ability to prevent the consummation of mergers, takeovers or other transactions that may be in the best interests of our Class A stockholders. In particular, this concentration of voting power could deprive Class A stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of Class A common stock as part of a sale of our company, and could ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. The disparity in the voting rights among the classes of our common stock may have a potential adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock. Each share of our Class A common stock entitles its holder to one vote on all matters to be voted on by stockholders generally, while each share of our Class B common stock entitles its holder to five votes for so long as the number of shares of Class B common stock represents 20% of the total number of shares of our 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS common stock outstanding. The difference in voting rights could adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock to the extent that investors view, or any potential future purchaser of our company views, the superior voting rights of the Class B common stock to have more value. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and may be limited by our holding company structure and applicable provisions of Delaware law. We currently intend to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis. However, our Board of Directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends, or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, as a holding company, we depend upon the ability of Pzena Investment Management, LLC to generate earnings and cash flows and distribute them to us so that we may pay our obligations and expenses and pay dividends to our stockholders. We expect to cause Pzena Investment Management, LLC to make distributions to its members, including us. However, the ability of Pzena Investment Management, LLC to make such distributions is subject to its operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, and applicable Delaware laws (which may limit the amount of funds available for distribution to its members), as well as any contractual restrictions. If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we are unable to generate sufficient distributions from our business, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our Class A common stock. Because of these various limitations and restrictions, we have, in the past, had to suspend our quarterly dividend payment. See “Item 5 — Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities — Our Dividend Policy.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 