ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, readers should carefully consider the following important factors. These factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our financial condition and results of operations and could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements that appear in this on Form 10-K or that we have made or will make elsewhere. 23 Risks Related to Our Business Due to increased volatility of raw material prices, the timing lag between the raw material purchase and product pricing can negatively impact our profitability. Volatility in the prices of raw materials, among other factors, may adversely impact our ability to accurately forecast demand and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We mitigate the impact of changing raw material prices by passing changes in prices to our customers by adjusting prices daily to reflect changes in raw material prices, as is customary in the industry. We may not be able to adjust our product prices rapidly enough in the short-term to recover the costs of increases in raw materials. Our future profitability may be adversely affected to the extent we are unable to pass on higher raw material costs to our customers. Key employees are essential to growing our business. Mr. Jianhua Zhu, Ms. Yaying Wang and Mr. Roy Yu, along with Ms. Zhu Junying, Mr. Yin Falong and Mr. Yu Niu are essential to our ability to continue to grow our business. Each of these key employees have established relationships within the industries in which we operate. Each of these employees have agreed to non-solicitation and non-compete restrictions during the course of their employment with us, however, these restrictions only extend for a one year period from termination. Further, we do not maintain, or intend to maintain, key person life insurance for any of our officers or key employees. If any of them were to leave us, our growth strategy might be hindered, which could limit our ability to increase revenue. In addition, we face competition for attracting skilled personnel. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel to meet current and future needs, this could slow our ability to grow our business, which could result in a decrease in market share. In the past several years we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from a small group of customers. If we were to become dependent again upon a few customers, such dependency could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Previously, our customer base has been highly concentrated. For the year ended December 31, 2009 and each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, our five largest customers accounted for 6.9%, 22.5%, 14.5% and 20.2% of our total sales, respectively, and the single largest customer accounted for 1.6%, 5.0%, 3.0% and 6.6% of our total sales, respectively. As our customer base may change from year-to-year, during such years that the customer base is highly concentrated, the loss of, or reduction of our sales to, any of such major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. One shareholder owns a large percentage of our outstanding stock and could significantly influence the outcome of our corporate matters. Currently, Magnify Wealth beneficially owns approximately 55.3% of our outstanding Common Stock. Mr. Zhu, our Chairman and CEO, is the sole director of Magnify Wealth. As the sole director of Magnify Wealth, Mr. Zhu has the sole power to vote the shares of our Common Stock owned by Magnify Wealth, and as a result, is able to exercise significant influence over all matters that require us to obtain shareholder approval, including the election of directors to our board and approval of significant corporate transactions that we may consider, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. Additionally, pursuant to the Share Transfer Agreement, Mr. Zhu has an option that vests over time, the conditions of which have been met as of the date herewith, allowing Mr. Zhu to purchase up to 3,000 shares of Magnify Wealth from Mr. Chu (the “Option Shares”). At such time as Mr. Zhu exercises and acquires, all of the Option Shares, he will own shares representing 81.9% of Magnify Wealth’s issued and outstanding shares. As of March 23, 2010, Mr. Zhu was entitled to acquire 50% of the Option Shares, which equals 1,500 shares. Once the Option Shares are exercised, Mr. Zhu will then also have a controlling equity interest in Magnify Wealth. This concentration of ownership in our shares by Magnify Wealth will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. 24 Risks Associated With Doing Business In China There are substantial risks associated with doing business in China, as set forth in the following risk factors. The application of PRC regulations relating to the overseas listing of PRC domestic companies is uncertain, and we may be subject to penalties for failing to request approval of the PRC authorities prior to listing our shares in the U.S. On August 8, 2006, six PRC government agencies, namely, MOFCOM, SAIC, CSRC, SAFE, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, and the State Administration for Taxation, jointly issued the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors (the “New M&A Rules”), which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rules purport, among other things, to require offshore “special purpose vehicles”, that are (1) formed for the purpose of overseas listing of the equity interests of PRC companies via acquisition and (2) are controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies and/or PRC individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of their securities on overseas stock exchanges. On September 21, 2006, pursuant to the New M&A Rules and other PRC Laws, the CSRC published on its official website relevant guidance with respect to the listing and trading of PRC domestic enterprises’ securities on overseas stock exchanges (the “Related Clarifications”), including a list of application materials regarding the listing on overseas stock exchange by special purpose vehicles. Based on our understanding of current PRC Laws and as advised by our PRC counsel, because (i) the CSRC currently has not issued any definitive rule or official interpretation concerning whether our offering is subject to the New M&A Rules and Related Clarifications; (ii) we were and are not a special purpose vehicle formed or controlled by PRC individuals; and (iii) conversion of Lihua Electron and Lihua Copper from a joint venture to a wholly foreign owned enterprise was and is not subject to the New M&A Rules in accordance with Rule 55 of the New M&A Rules and Guidance Manual on Administration of Entry of Foreign Investment issued by the Department of Foreign Investment Administration of the MOFCOM in December 2008, we were and are not required to obtain the approval of CSRC under the New M&A Rules in connection with this offering. However, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforcement of these rules, and CSRC has yet to promulgate any written provisions or formally to declare or state whether the overseas listing of a PRC-related company structured similar to ours is subject to the approval of CSRC. Any violation of these rules could result in fines and other penalties on our operations in China, restrictions or limitations on remitting dividends outside of China, and other forms of sanctions that may cause a material and adverse effect to our business, operations and financial conditions. The new mergers and acquisitions regulations also established additional procedures and requirements that are expected to make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise that owns well-known trademarks or China’s traditional brands. We may grow our business in part by acquiring other businesses. Complying with the requirements of the new mergers and acquisitions regulations in completing this type of transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including CSRC approval, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. 25 We have granted stock options to one of our directors who is a PRC citizen and, our CEO, Mr. Zhu, has options to purchase shares in our majority shareholder, Magnify Wealth, which may require registration with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to issue equity compensation to our directors and employees and other parties who are PRC citizens or residents under PRC law. On April 6, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, also know as “Circular 78.” It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. Further, it is also not clear whether Circular 78 would require SAFE approval for stock options in Magnify Wealth that are granted to Mr. Zhu. For any equity compensation plan which is so covered and is adopted by a non-PRC listed company after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We have adopted an equity compensation plan and have begun to make option grants to some of our directors, one of which is a PRC citizen. Circular 78 may require PRC citizens who receive option grants to register with SAFE. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans, or the option grant from Magnify Wealth to Mr. Zhu are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and recipients of such options to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our ability to compensate our employees and directors through equity compensation would be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected. Because our principal assets are located outside of the United States and with the exception of one director, our directors and all our officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights based on the United States Federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors in the United States or to enforce judgments of United States courts against us or them in the PRC. With the exception of one director, all of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. In addition, our operating subsidiaries are located in the PRC and all of their assets are located outside of the United States. China does not have a treaty with United States providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the United States Federal securities laws against us in the courts of either the United States or the PRC and, even if civil judgments are obtained in courts of the United States, to enforce such judgments in PRC courts. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and directors of criminal penalties, under the United States Federal securities laws or otherwise. Because we may not be able to obtain business insurance in the PRC, we may not be protected from risks that are customarily covered by insurance in the United States. Business insurance is not readily available in the PRC. To the extent that we suffer a loss of a type which would normally be covered by insurance in the United States, such as product liability and general liability insurance, we would incur significant expenses in both defending any action and in paying any claims that result from a settlement or judgment. Risks Related to our Securities We may need additional capital and may sell additional securities or other equity securities or incur indebtedness, which could result in additional dilution to our shareholders or increase our debt service obligations. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our cash resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities or equity-linked debt securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 26 NASDAQ may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our Common Stock is traded on NASDAQ, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will meet the continued listing requirements be listed on NASDAQ in the future. If NASDAQ delists our Common Stock from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our Common Stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our Common Stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our Common Stock; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. If our shares of Common Stock become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our shares of Common Stock have a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our Common Stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our Common Stock become subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. ITEM 