ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We face a variety of significant and diverse risks, many of which are inherent in our business. Described below are certain risks that we currently believe could materially affect us. Other risks and uncertainties that we do not presently consider to be material, or of which we are not presently aware, may become important factors that affect us in the future. The occurrence of any of the risks discussed below, or such other risks, could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on Richard S. Pzena, John P. Goetz, A. Rama Krishna and William L. Lipsey and the loss of the services of any of them could have a material adverse effect on us. The success of our business depends on the participation of Richard S. Pzena, John P. Goetz, A. Rama Krishna and William L. Lipsey, whom we collectively refer to as our managing principals, and who also act as our operating company's Executive Committee. Their professional reputations, expertise in investing and relationships with our clients and within the investing community in the U.S. and abroad, are critical elements to executing our business strategy and attracting and retaining clients. Accordingly, the retention of our managing principals is crucial to our future success. There is no guarantee that they will not resign, join our competitors or form a competing company. The terms of the current operating agreement of our operating company restrict each of Messrs. Pzena, Goetz and Lipsey from competing with us or soliciting our clients or other employees during the term of their employment with us and for three years thereafter. Under the terms of his employment agreement, Mr. Krishna has agreed not to compete with us for a period of 18 months following (i) his notice of resignation, which must be given six months prior to the termination of his employment with us pursuant to his agreement, or (ii) the date of any other termination of his employment with us. The penalty for their breach of these restrictive covenants will be the forfeiture of a number of Class B units held by the managing principal that is equal to 50% of the number of membership units collectively held by the managing principal and his permitted transferees as of the earlier of the date of his breach or the termination of his employment, unless our board of directors, in its sole discretion, determines otherwise. Although we may also seek specific performance of these restrictive covenants, there can be no assurance that we would be successful in obtaining this relief. Further, after this post-employment restrictive period, we will not be able to prohibit them from competing with us or soliciting our clients or employees. If any of our managing principals were to join a competitor or form a competing company, some of our current clients or other prominent members of the investing community could choose to invest with that competitor rather than us. Furthermore, we do not carry any "key man" insurance that would provide us with proceeds in the event of the death or disability of any of our managing principals. The loss of the services of any of our managing principals could have a material adverse effect on our business and could impact our future performance. If our investment strategies perform poorly, we could lose clients or suffer a decline in AUM which would impair our revenues and earnings. The performance of our investment strategies is one of the most important factors in retaining clients and AUM and competing for new business. If our investment strategies perform poorly, it could impair our earnings because: •our existing clients might withdraw their funds from our investment strategies, which would cause the level of our advisory fees to decline; •the level of the performance-based fees paid by certain of our clients, which provides us with a percentage of returns if our investment strategies outperform certain agreed upon benchmarks, would decline; 14 •third-party financial intermediaries, advisers or consultants may rate our investment products poorly, which may lead our existing clients to withdraw funds from our investment strategies or to the reduction of asset inflows from these third parties or their clients; or •the mutual funds and other investment funds that we sub-advise may decide not to renew or to terminate the agreements pursuant to which we sub-advise them and we may not be able to replace these relationships. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, our investment strategies have underperformed their respective benchmarks, and there can be no assurance that such underperformance will not continue. The annualized gross returns (which represents annualized returns prior to payment of advisory fees) of our Large Cap Value strategy (which represented approximately 53.2% of our AUM as of December 31, 2008) for the 1-year, 3-year, 5-year and since inception (October 2000) periods ended December 31, 2008 were (44.1) %, (16.8) %, (5.7)%, and (0.1)%, respectively. This compares to the returns of the Russell 1000® Value Index, the market index most commonly used by our clients to compare the performance of our Large Cap Value strategy, during the same periods of (36.9) %, (8.3)%, (0.8)%, and 0.4%, respectively. During periods of declining AUM and revenues, such as we are currently experiencing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to reduce our expenses at a commensurate rate, potentially leading to accelerated profitability declines. Additionally, given the nature of our business, there is a minimum expense base necessary to retain our employees and maintain our operations, and it may be difficult to reduce expenses beyond certain levels. Our sub-investment advisory relationships with mutual funds advised by John Hancock Advisers represent a significant source of our revenues, and the termination of these relationships would impair our revenues and earnings. We currently act as a sub-investment adviser to the John Hancock Classic Value Fund, the John Hancock Classic Value Fund II, the John Hancock International Classic Value Fund and the John Hancock Classic Value Mega Cap Fund, each of which are SEC-registered mutual funds advised by John Hancock Advisers. Our sub-investment advisory relationships with these four mutual funds represented, in the aggregate, 22.4% and 26.3% of our AUM at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, 13.9%, 20.4% and 20.3%, respectively, of our total revenue was generated from these relationships. Our sub-investment advisory agreement with the John Hancock Classic Value Fund represented all, or substantially all, of this revenue during these periods. There can be no assurance that our agreements with respect to these mutual funds will remain in place. In addition, these agreements would terminate automatically in the event that the investment management agreement between John Hancock Advisers and each individual fund is assigned or terminated. Such a termination of our sub-investment advisory agreements would significantly reduce our revenues and we may not be able to establish relationships with other mutual funds' investment advisers and/or significant institutional separate accounts in order to replace the lost revenues. John Hancock Advisers has notified us that during 2009 it will be liquidating or reorganizing a number of mutual funds that it deems to have an insufficient level of assets. As part of this initiative, the John Hancock Classic Value Fund II will be reorganized into another John Hancock mutual fund not sub-advised by us, and the John Hancock International Classic Value Fund will be liquidated. The aggregate AUM in these two funds as of December 31, 2008 was $46.4 million and represented 0.4% of our AUM. The revenue generated from our sub-advisory agreements with these two funds for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was 0.3%, 0.4% and 0.1% of our total revenues for those years. These actions by John Hancock will not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. 15 Because our clients can reduce the amount of assets we manage for them, or terminate our agreements with them, on short notice, we may experience unexpected declines in revenue and profitability. Our investment advisory and sub-investment advisory agreements are generally terminable upon short notice. Our sub-investment advisory agreements with eleven SEC-registered mutual funds, such as the four mutual funds advised by John Hancock Advisers, each have an initial two-year term and are subject to annual renewal by the fund's board of directors pursuant to the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act. Nine of these eleven sub-investment advisory agreements are beyond their initial two-year term, as of December 31, 2008, including the agreement for the John Hancock Classic Value Fund. Institutional and individual clients, and the funds with which we have sub-investment advisory agreements, can terminate their relationships with us, or reduce the aggregate amount of AUM, for a number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, and financial market performance, or to shift their funds to competitors who may charge lower advisory fee rates, or for no stated reason. Poor performance relative to that of other investment management firms tends to result in decreased investments in our investment strategies, increased withdrawals from our investment strategies and the loss of institutional or individual accounts or sub-investment advisory relationships. In addition, the ability to terminate relationships may allow clients to renegotiate for lower fees paid for asset management services. If our investment advisory agreements are terminated, or our clients reduce the amount of AUM, either of which may occur on short notice, we may experience declines in revenue and profitability. We experienced declines in AUM during the past six quarters, and declines in revenue and profitability during the past five quarters, and there can be no assurance that there will not be continued declines in our AUM, revenue and profitability in the future. During the past six quarters, our AUM declined from $30.6 billion at June 30, 2007, to $10.7 billion at December 31, 2008. This decline was due to $15.6 billion in market depreciation and $4.3 billion in net outflows. There was a corresponding decline in revenue and profitability during this period. During the past six quarters, our AUM in separately-managed accounts declined from $16.5 billion at June 30, 2007, to $6.4 billion at December 31, 2008. This decline was due to $9.2 billion in market depreciation and net outflows of $0.9 billion. During the past six quarters, our AUM in sub-advised funds declined from $14.1 billion at June 30, 2007 to $4.3 billion at December 31 2008. This decline was due to $6.4 billion in market depreciation and net outflows of $3.4 billion. Our advisory agreement with the John Hancock Classic Value Fund represented the majority of our sub-advised assets during this period. Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our business by reducing the market value of the assets we manage or causing our clients to withdraw funds. Our business would be expected to generate lower revenue in a declining stock market or general economic downturn. Under our advisory fee arrangements, the fees we receive typically are based on the market value of our AUM. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities held in our clients' portfolios would be expected to cause our revenue and profitability to decline by: •causing the value of our AUM to decline, which would result in lower advisory fees; or •causing some of our clients to withdraw funds from our investment strategies in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk, which also would result in lower advisory fees. As mentioned above, we experienced declines in AUM during the past six quarters, and declines in revenue and profitability during the past five quarters, and there can be no assurance that there will not be continued declines in our AUM, revenue and profitability in the future. 16 The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, and adverse changes in the global economy have negatively impacted our AUM, revenues and profitability. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. The global financial crisis that began in 2007 worsened during the second half of 2008 and continued into 2009. The decline in global market conditions has resulted, and may continue to result, in decreases in our AUM and revenues. Such declines may adversely impact our operating results, financial condition, and liquidity. We believe the disruption in the financial markets continues to cause widespread investor uncertainty. We cannot predict how long the global financial crisis will last or what its impact will be on our financial results. If U.S. and international financial markets continue to experience negative performance and volatility, demand for our products and services may decline, and our revenue, profitability, liquidity, and other financial results could suffer. U.S. and international credit markets and economic conditions could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. The recent downturn in the credit markets has increased the cost of borrowing and has made financing difficult to obtain, each of which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and business. Global markets and economic conditions continue to be volatile, causing disruption, which has been particularly acute in the financial sector. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and profitability. The cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets. Some lenders are imposing more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit, and there may be a general reduction in the amount of credit available in the markets in which we conduct business. The negative impact on the tightening of the credit markets may have a material adverse effect on us resulting from, but not limited to, an inability to obtain additional financing, if we require it in the future, or, if financing is available, it may be subject to significant restrictive covenants. The negative impact of the recent adverse changes in the credit markets may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and business. Federal and state governments have passed additional legislation responsive to current credit conditions, but the impact on us is uncertain. Our periodic interest and amortization payment obligations under our financing facilities could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Our current financing facilities restrict our ability to make cash distributions to our Class A stockholders. Pursuant to a credit agreement, dated as of July 23, 2007 and as amended as of October 28, 2008, among our operating company, as the borrower, certain of its subsidiaries, as guarantors, and Bank of America, N.A., as the administrative agent, the letter of credit issuer and a lender, a $22.0 million term loan outstanding and $1.8 million letter of credit are available. Pursuant to this credit agreement, our operating company must make quarterly amortization payments of $2.0 million on the term loan until its maturity on July 23, 2011, which may adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. Our interest payment obligations under the credit agreement are floating rate obligations based on the London Interbank Offering Rate, or LIBOR, and the interest expense we incur will vary with changes in the applicable LIBOR reference rate. As a result, an increase in short-term interest rates will increase our interest costs, which may adversely affect our earnings and liquidity. We have entered into a swap agreement to hedge our interest rate exposure on the current outstanding balance of the term loan through July 23, 2010. However, we have not entered any arrangement to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates from July 23, 2010 to July 23, 2011. For this one year period, we may be exposed to adverse changes in interest rates that may correspondingly affect our future earnings and cash flow. 17 On October 28, 2008, certain of our directors and executive officers, and entities relating to them, loaned an aggregate of $16.0 million to our operating company pursuant to the terms of $16.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior subordinated notes issued by the operating company. These notes are unsecured, have a ten-year maturity and bear interest at 6.30% per annum. As our obligations under the credit agreement and the senior subordinated notes become due, we may be required to either refinance any amounts then outstanding by entering into new financing facilities, which could result in higher borrowing costs, or issue equity, which would dilute existing stockholders. Our operating company could also repay them by using cash on hand or cash from the sale of our assets. No assurance can be given that we, or our operating company, will be able to enter into new financing facilities, issue equity in the future, on attractive terms, or at all, have sufficient cash on hand, or be able to raise cash through asset sales, in order to satisfy these obligations. Under the terms and conditions of our amended credit agreement and senior subordinated notes, our operating company is generally restricted from making cash distributions to us in respect of our approximate 9.6% member interest therein (other than to fund the payment of taxes we owe as a result of our proportional ownership of the operating company). Since this is our sole source of making distributions to our Class A stockholders, we had to suspend our regular dividend payments to stockholders. Our flexibility as to how to deploy our cash flow will be negatively impacted while we are subject to these debt agreements. If an event of default under our credit agreement occurs, our lenders thereunder may foreclose on the collateral pledged to them under the related security agreement which could adversely affect our liquidity. In connection with the amendment to our credit agreement on October 28, 2008, we entered into a related security agreement with the lenders thereunder pursuant to which we granted these lenders a continuing first priority security interest in our accounts receivable. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit agreement, which include defaults on our payment obligations thereunder, failure to perform or observe the various affirmative covenants under the credit agreement, the occurrence of cross-defaults with other of our debt obligations, certain bankruptcy events, among other events, the lenders may, among other things, exercise their right to foreclose on these assets. Our inability to access these assets while a default is continuing, or our loss of these assets, could adversely affect our liquidity. Our ability to retain our senior investment professionals and attract additional qualified investment professionals is critical to our success. A decline in our revenues and profitability may have an adverse effect on our business and our ability to attract and retain employees. Our success depends on our ability to retain the senior members of our investment team and to recruit additional qualified investment professionals. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to retain them, as the market for investment professionals is extremely competitive. Our portfolio managers possess substantial experience and expertise in investing and, in particular, our classic value investment approach, which requires significant qualitative judgments as to the future earnings power of currently underperforming businesses. Our portfolio managers also have significant relationships with our clients. Accordingly, the loss of any one of our senior investment professionals could limit our ability to successfully execute our classic value investment approach and, therefore, sustain the performance of our investment strategies, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 Future growth of our business may be difficult to achieve, and may place significant demands on our resources and employees, and may increase our expenses. Future growth of our business may be difficult to achieve, and may place significant demands on our infrastructure, our investment team and other employees, and may increase our expenses. In addition, we are required to continuously develop our infrastructure in response to the increasing sophistication of the investment management market, as well as due to legal and regulatory developments. As a result of our investment strategies underperforming their respective benchmarks in 2006, 2007 and 2008, our future growth may be more challenging, as this may impact our ability to attract inflows of AUM. Additionally, the current overall market environment, with equity markets broadly and significantly down, may impact potential investors' interest in committing new capital to equity strategies such as those offered by us, thereby making growth more difficult. The future growth of our business, if achieved, will depend, among other things, on our ability to maintain an infrastructure and staffing levels sufficient to address its growth and may require us to incur significant additional expenses and commit additional senior management and operational resources. We may face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and operational controls, implementing new or updated information and financial systems and procedures and training, managing and appropriately sizing our work force and other components of our business on a timely and cost-effective basis. In addition, our efforts to retain or attract qualified investment professionals may result in significant additional expenses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage the growth of our business effectively or that we will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses. The investment management business is intensely competitive. Competition in the investment management business is based on a variety of factors, including: •investment performance; •investor perception of an investment manager's drive, focus and alignment of interest with them; •quality of service provided to, and duration of relationships with, clients; •business reputation; and •level of fees charged for services. We compete in all aspects of our business with a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, broker-dealers, insurance companies and other financial institutions. Our competitive risks are heightened by the fact that some of our competitors may invest according to different investment styles or in alternative asset classes which the markets may perceive as more attractive than our investment approach in the public equity markets. If we are unable to compete effectively, our earnings and revenues could be reduced, and our business could be materially adversely affected. Reductions in business sourced through third-party distribution channels, or their poor reviews of us or our products, could materially reduce our revenue and ability to attract new clients. New accounts sourced through consultant-led searches have been a large driver of our inflows in the past and are expected to be a major component of our future inflows. In addition, we have established relationships with certain mutual fund providers, most significantly John Hancock Advisers, who have offered us opportunities to access new market segments through sub-investment advisory roles. We have also accessed the high-net-worth segment of the investing community through 19 relationships with well respected wealth advisers who utilize our investment strategies in investment programs they construct for their clients. If we fail to successfully maintain these third-party distribution and sub-investment advisory relationships, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, many of these parties review and evaluate our products and our organization. Poor reviews or evaluations of either the particular product or of us may result in client withdrawals or may impact our ability to attract new assets through such intermediaries. A change of control of us could result in termination of our sub-investment advisory and investment advisory agreements. Pursuant to the Investment Company Act, each of the sub-investment advisory agreements for the SEC-registered mutual funds that we sub-advise automatically terminates upon its deemed "assignment" and a fund's board and shareholders must approve a new agreement in order for us to continue to act as its sub-investment adviser. In addition, pursuant to the Investment Advisers Act, each of our investment advisory agreements for the separate accounts we manage may not be "assigned" without the consent of the client. A sale of a controlling block of our voting securities and certain other transactions would be deemed an "assignment" pursuant to both the Investment Company Act and the Investment Advisers Act. Such an assignment may be deemed to occur in the event that the holders of the Class B units of our operating company exchange enough of their Class B units for shares of our Class A common stock such that they no longer own a controlling interest in us. If such a deemed assignment occurs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary consents from clients whose funds are managed pursuant to separate accounts or the necessary approvals from the boards and shareholders of the SEC-registered funds that we sub-advise. An assignment, actual or constructive, would trigger these termination and consent provisions and, unless the necessary approvals and consents are obtained, could adversely affect our ability to continue managing client accounts, resulting in the loss of AUM and a corresponding loss of revenue. Our failure to comply with guidelines set by our clients could result in damage awards against us and a loss of AUM, either of which would cause our earnings to decline or affect our ability to remain in business. As an investment adviser, we have a fiduciary duty to our clients. When clients retain us to manage assets on their behalf, they may specify certain guidelines regarding investment allocation and strategy that we are required to observe in the management of their portfolios. Our failure to comply with these guidelines and other limitations could result in losses to a client account that the client could seek to recover from us and could result in the client withdrawing its assets from our management or terminating our investment advisory agreement with them. Any of these events could cause our earnings to decline or affect our ability to remain in business. Extensive regulation of our business limits our activities and exposes us to the potential for significant penalties, including fines or limitations on our ability to conduct our business. We are subject to extensive regulation of our investment management business and operations. As a registered investment adviser, the SEC oversees our activities pursuant to its regulatory authority under the Investment Advisers Act. In addition, we must comply with certain requirements under the Investment Company Act with respect to the SEC-registered funds for which we act as sub-investment adviser. We are also subject to regulation by the Department of Labor under ERISA. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of financial services, including the authority to grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular businesses. A failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Investment Advisers Act on investment advisers, including record-keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in 20 fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as an investment adviser. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation, result in withdrawal by our clients from our investment strategies and impede our ability to retain clients and develop new client relationships, which may reduce our revenues. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. Among other things, we could be fined or be prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities. The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us, and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to modifications and further regulation. New laws or regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations, applicable to us and our clients also may adversely affect our business, and our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and react to these changes. For investment management firms in general, there have been a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries that focus on the mutual fund industry. These inquiries already have resulted in increased scrutiny in the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds and their investment managers. This regulatory scrutiny may limit our ability to engage in certain activities. Specific regulatory changes also may have a direct impact on our revenue. In addition to regulatory scrutiny and potential fines and sanctions, regulators continue to examine different aspects of the asset management industry. New regulation regarding the annual approval process for mutual fund sub-investment advisory agreements may result in the reduction of fees or possible terminations of these agreements. These regulatory changes and other proposed or potential changes may result in a reduction of revenue associated with these activities. Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in losses or limit our growth. We rely heavily on our financial, accounting, trading, compliance and other data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these systems, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise, could result in a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage, and thus materially adversely affect our business. Although we have back-up systems in place, our back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of a failure or interruption may not be adequate. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions also could constrain our ability to expand our businesses. In recent years, we have substantially upgraded and expanded the capabilities of our data processing systems and other operating technology, and we expect that we will need to continue to upgrade and expand these capabilities in the future to avoid disruption of, or constraints on, our operations. Furthermore, we depend on our headquarters in New York City for the continued operation of our business. A disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business, or directly affecting our headquarters, may have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. Although we have disaster recovery programs in place, there can be no assurance that these will be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses. 21 The investment management industry faces substantial litigation risks which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us. We depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, such dissatisfaction may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses. We make investment decisions on behalf of our clients which could result in substantial losses to them. In order for our classic value investment strategies to yield attractive returns, we expect to have to hold securities for multi-year periods and, therefore, our investment strategies may not perform well in the short term. If our clients suffer significant losses, or are otherwise dissatisfied with our services, we could be subject to the risk of legal liabilities or actions alleging negligent misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty or breach of contract. These risks are often difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. We may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us. For information on our current legal proceedings, see "Item 3—Legal Proceedings." Fulfilling our public company financial reporting and other regulatory obligations has been and will be expensive and time consuming. Since becoming a public company, we have been required to implement specific corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE"). Compliance with these requirements has and will increase our legal and accounting compliance costs and place significant additional demands on our accounting and finance staff, and on our accounting, financial and information systems. We have hired, and may need to hire, additional accounting and finance staff with appropriate public company financial reporting experience and technical accounting knowledge, which has and may increase our compensation expense. Commencing with this annual report on Form 10-K, our management will be required to conduct an annual assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and include a report on our internal controls in our annual reports on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, we will be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We will continue to incur costs in order to maintain our internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including necessary auditing and legal fees, and costs associated with accounting, internal audit, information technology, compliance and administrative staff. The historical consolidated financial information included in this annual report and our previously filed public company reports may not necessarily be indicative of our future financial results. The historical consolidated financial information included in this annual report and our previously filed public company reports may not necessarily be indicative of our future financial results. We do not expect our AUM or revenue to grow at the same rate as they grew in the five years ended December 31, 2007. As mentioned above, we experienced declines in AUM during the past six quarters, and declines in revenue and profitability during the past five quarters, and there can be no assurance that there will not be continued declines in our AUM, revenue and profitability in the future. Although in 2007 we re-opened the Large Cap Value, Value Service, Small Cap Value, Mid Cap Value and All Cap Value strategies, we may close these strategies again at any time. In addition, the historical consolidated financial information included in this annual report and our previously filed public 22 company reports with respect to the periods prior to the consummation of the reorganization of our operating company and the concurrent initial public offering of our Class A common stock on October 30, 2007 do not reflect all the added costs that we have incurred and continue to expect to incur as a public company. For example, because we operated through a limited liability company prior to October 30, 2007 and paid little or no taxes on our profits, our historical consolidated financial information prior to October 30, 2007 do not reflect the tax impact of our adoption of a corporate holding company structure. See "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the historical financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 23 Risks Related to Our Investment Strategies Our results of operations depend on the performance of our investment strategies. Poor performance of our investment strategies will reduce or minimize the value of our assets under management, on which our advisory fees are based. Since advisory fees comprise all of our operating revenues, poor performance of our investment strategies will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, poor performance will make it difficult for us to retain or attract clients and to grow our business. The performance of our strategies is subject to some or all of the following risks. Our classic value investments in concentrated portfolios subject the performance of our investment strategies to the risk that the companies in which we invest may not achieve the level of earnings recovery that we initially expect, or at all. We generally invest in companies after they have experienced a shortfall in their historic earnings, due to an adverse business development, management error, accounting scandal or other disruption, and before there is clear evidence of earnings recovery or business momentum. While very few investors are willing to invest when companies lack earnings visibility, our classic value investment approach seeks to capture the return that can be obtained by investing in a company before the market has a level of confidence in its ability to achieve earnings recovery. However, our investment approach entails the risk that the companies included in our portfolios are not able to execute the turnaround that we had expected when we originally invested in them, thereby reducing the performance of our strategies. Our strategy of constructing concentrated portfolios, generally ranging from 30 to 60 holdings, of companies underperforming their historical earnings power, is subject to a higher risk of underperformance relative to benchmarks than the investment approaches of some of our competitors. Further, since our positions in these investments are often substantial, there is the risk that we may be unable to find willing purchasers for our investments when we decide to sell them. Since we apply the same investment process across all of our investment strategies, utilizing one team, and given the overlapping universes of many of our investment strategies, we could have common positions and industry or sector concentrations across many of our investment strategies at the same time. As such, factors leading one of our investment strategies to underperform may lead other strategies to underperform simultaneously. For example, we have been overweight in the financial services sector in most of our investment strategies in recent periods, and given this sector has performed poorly during that time period, most of our strategies have been negatively impacted by this. Our investment strategies may not obtain attractive returns in certain periods or during certain market conditions. Our products are best suited for investors with long-term investment horizons. In order for our classic value investment approach to yield attractive returns, we must typically hold securities for an average of over three years. Our investment strategies may not perform well during certain periods of time, as is currently the case. In addition, our strategies may not perform well during points in the economic cycle when value-oriented stocks are relatively less attractive, as has been the case for the past two and a half years. For instance, during the late stages of an economic cycle, investors may purchase relatively expensive stocks in order to obtain access to above average growth, as was the case in the late 1990s. Value-oriented strategies may also experience weakness during periods when the markets are focused on one investment thesis or sector. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, our investment strategies have underperformed their respective benchmarks, and there can be no assurance that such underperformance will not continue. 24 Our investment approach may underperform other investment approaches, which may result in significant withdrawals of client assets or client departures or a reduction in our AUM. Even when securities prices are rising generally, portfolio performance can be affected by our investment approach. We employ a classic value investment approach in all of our investment strategies. This investment approach has outperformed the market in some economic and market environments and underperformed it in others. We are currently in a period in which this approach has been underperforming. In particular, a prolonged period in which the growth style of investing outperforms the value style may cause our investment strategy to go out of favor with some clients, consultants or third-party intermediaries. Poor performance relative to peers, coupled with changes in personnel, extensive periods in particular market environments, or other difficulties may result in significant withdrawals of client assets, client departures or a reduction in our AUM. We experienced declines in AUM during the past six quarters, and declines in revenue and profitability during the past five quarters, and there can be no assurance that there will not be continued declines in our AUM, revenue and profitability in the future. During the past six quarters, our AUM declined from $30.6 billion at June 30, 2007, to $10.7 billion at December 31, 2008. This decline was due to $15.6 billion in market depreciation and $4.3 billion in net outflows. There was a corresponding decline in revenue and profitability during this period. The recessionary environment has, and may continue to, negatively affect the companies in which we invest. Despite recent governmental efforts to stimulate the economy, the recessionary environment may continue. The recent disruption in the global credit markets and the deterioration of the economy and the financial markets has created increasingly difficult conditions for most companies, including many of those in which we invest. The recessionary environment that the United States and the world face as a result of these factors has had the effect of pushing the prices of equity securities in which we invest lower than their historical levels. In addition, the recessionary environment has had the effect of reducing the funds available to our clients to invest. Both of these trends could continue to reduce our AUM, which is the main driver of our revenues and profitability. In October 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ("EESA") was signed into law. Pursuant to EESA, the federal government has invested over $250 billion in major financial institutions. In February 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ("AARA"), a $787 billion economic stimulus measure, was signed into law. The federal government has implemented a host of other programs intended to stimulate the economy and unclog credit markets and more are contemplated. The ultimate effect of EESA, AARA and these governmental programs is unknown as this time and, despite the enactment of these pieces of legislation and the implementation of these governmental programs, the recessionary environment may not improve for some time, or may deteriorate, either of which could materially adversely affect the companies in which we invest, the economy in general and our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the trading price of our common stock. Our investment process requires us to conduct extensive fundamental research on any company before investing in it, which may result in missed investment opportunities and reduce the performance of our investment strategies. We take a considerable amount of time to complete the in-depth research projects that our investment process requires before adding any security to our portfolio. Our process requires that we take this time in order to understand the company and the business well enough to make an informed decision as to whether we are willing to own a significant position in a company whose current earnings are below its historic norms and that does not yet have earnings visibility. However, the time we take to make this judgment may cause us to miss the opportunity to invest in a company that has a sharp and 25 rapid earnings recovery. Any such missed investment opportunities could adversely impact the performance of our investment strategies. Our Global Value, International Value, European Value and International Diversified Value investment strategies consist primarily of investments in the securities of issuers located outside of the United States, which may involve foreign currency exchange, political, social and economic uncertainties and risks. Our Global Value, International Value, European Value and International Diversified Value investment strategies, which together represented $2.2 billion of our AUM as of December 31, 2008 and may comprise a larger portion of our AUM in the future, are primarily invested in securities of companies located outside the United States. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact the portfolios of our clients who are invested in these strategies. In addition, foreign currency fluctuations may affect the levels of our AUM from one reporting period to another. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to non-U.S. currencies may result in a decrease in the dollar value of our AUM, which, in turn, would result in lower U.S.-dollar denominated revenue. We do not currently engage in any hedging activities for these portfolios and continue to market these products as unhedged. Investments in non-U.S. issuers may also be affected by political, social and economic uncertainty affecting a country or region in which we are invested. Many non-U.S. financial markets are not as developed, or as efficient, as the U.S. financial market, and, as a result, liquidity may be reduced and price volatility may be higher. The legal and regulatory environments, including financial accounting standards and practices, may also be different, and there may be less publicly available information in respect of such companies. These risks could adversely impact the performance of our strategies that are invested in securities of non-U.S. issuers. 26 Risks Related to Our Structure We are dependent upon distributions from our operating company to make distributions to our Class A stockholders, and to pay taxes and other expenses. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our ownership of membership units of our operating company. We have no independent means of generating revenue and cash flow. Our operating company is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, is not itself subject to U.S. federal income tax. Instead, its taxable income is allocated to its members, including us, pro rata according to the number of membership units each owns. Accordingly, we incur income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of our operating company and also incur expenses related to our operations. We intend to cause our operating company to distribute cash to its members in an amount at least equal to that necessary to cover their tax liabilities, if any, with respect to the earnings of our operating company. To the extent that we need funds to pay our tax or other liabilities or to fund our operations, and our operating company is restricted from making distributions to us under applicable laws or regulations, or loan agreements, or does not have sufficient earnings to make these distributions, we may have to borrow funds to meet these obligations and run our business and, thus, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that funds will be available to borrow under such circumstances on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We are required to pay the two current members and one former member of our operating company who sold to us an aggregate of 6.1 million membership units of our operating company in October 2007 and the holders of Class B units of our operating company who exchange their Class B units for shares of our Class A common stock most of the tax benefit of any depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of the tax basis step up we receive in connection with these sales of membership units and any future exchanges of Class B units. We used the net proceeds of our October 2007 initial public offering to purchase an aggregate of 6.1 million membership units of our operating company from three of its members, or the selling members. These purchases have and are expected to result in increases in our share of the tax basis in the tangible and intangible assets of our operating company that otherwise would not have been available. Any subsequent exchanges of Class B units of our operating company for shares of our Class A common stock are also expected to result in increases in our share of the tax basis in the tangible and intangible assets of our operating company that otherwise would not have been available. These increases in tax basis have and are expected to reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, might challenge all or part of this tax basis increase, and a court might sustain such a challenge. Pursuant to a tax receivable agreement dated October 30, 2007, among the selling members, all holders of Class B units after our October 2007 initial public offering and us, we are required to pay the selling members and any holders of Class B units who elect to exchange their Class B units for shares of our Class A common stock 85% of the amount of the cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that we realize as a result of the increases in tax basis due to the sale to us of 6.1 million membership units in October 2007 and any subsequent exchanges of Class B units for shares of our Class A common stock. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of our income and the tax rates then applicable. We expect that, as a result of the size and increases in our share of the tax basis in the tangible and intangible assets of our operating company attributable to our interest therein, the payments that we may make to these members likely will be substantial. In October 2008, each of the selling members agreed with us to waive any payments that we are or may be required to make to 27 them with respect to the 2008 and 2009 tax years, as a result of their sale to us of an aggregate of 6.1 million membership units in October 2007. There can be no assurance that any of the selling members would grant us similar waivers in the future or that any holder of Class B units would grant us such a waiver related to any future exchanges. Were the IRS to successfully challenge the tax basis increases described above, we would not be reimbursed for any payments made under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances, we could be required to make payments under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. If we are deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act, our business would be subject to applicable restrictions under that Act, which could make it impracticable for us to continue our business as contemplated. We believe our company is not an investment company under Section 3(b)(1) of the Investment Company Act because we are primarily engaged in a non-investment company business. We conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company. However, if we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated. 28 Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our Class A common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our Class A common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares of Class A common stock at or above your purchase price, if at all. We cannot assure you that the market price of our Class A common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our Class A common stock, or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Class A common stock, include: •decreases in our assets under management; •variations in our quarterly operating results; •failure to meet our earnings estimates; •publication of research reports about us or the investment management industry; •additions or departures of our managing principals and other key personnel; •adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; •actions by stockholders; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; •changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations, or differing interpretations thereof, affecting our business, or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; •adverse publicity about the asset management industry, generally, or individual scandals, specifically; and •general market and economic conditions. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline due to the large number of shares of our Class A common stock eligible for future sale upon the exchange of Class B units of our operating company. Pursuant to the operating agreement of our operating company, on at least one date designated by us each year (or, if we do not designate a date by September 30th of any year, on October 30th), each holder of Class B units may exchange up to 15% of its Class B units for an equivalent number of shares of our Class A common stock, subject to certain restrictions set forth in the operating agreement. Pursuant to the resale and registration rights agreement, dated October 30, 2007, among the holders of Class B units and us, (i) on at least one date designated by us each year (or, if we do not designate a date by September 30th of any year, on a date that is three business days after October 30th) these holders may resell the shares of Class A common stock issued to them upon the exchange of up to 15% of their Class B units, and (ii) until October 30, 2011, they may only resell these shares in the manner determined by us. In accordance with our obligations under the operating agreement and the resale and registration rights agreement, we intend to designate (i) at least one date between now and October 30, 2009 on which we will allow holders of Class B units to exchange up to an aggregate of approximately 8.7 million Class B units, which represents 15% of the Class B units outstanding immediately after the consummation of our operating company's reorganization on October 30, 2007, for an equivalent number of shares of Class A common stock and (ii) the date or dates and manner in which we will allow these holders to resell these shares. In addition, our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, allow holders of Class B units to make exchanges in amounts exceeding those described above. 29 We filed a Form S-3 registration statement, which became effective in February 2009, in order to register our issuance to these holders of the total number of shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exchange of all Class B units outstanding immediately after the consummation of our operating company's reorganization. We designated March 3, 2009 as the 2009 exchange date. Certain executive officers and employees elected to exchange an aggregate of 2,445,973 Class B units for an equivalent number of shares of our Class A common stock, which, with the exception of those held by our executive officers, are freely tradable. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales pursuant to the Form S-3 registration statement, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling equity securities in the future, at a time and price that we deem appropriate. None of the members of the Executive Committee of Pzena Investment Management, LLC, who beneficially own a substantial majority of the Class B units currently outstanding, have any present plans to sell any shares of Class A common stock. Control by our Class B stockholders, which include our managing principals, 22 of our other employees, two outside investors and one former employee, of 97.9% of the combined voting power of our common stock may give rise to conflicts of interest. Our Class B stockholders collectively hold approximately 97.9% of the combined voting power of our common stock. These stockholders consist of our managing principals, 22 of our other employees, two outside investors and one former employee. Holders of shares of our Class B common stock have entered into a Class B stockholders' agreement with respect to all shares of Class B common stock then held by them and any additional shares of Class B common stock they may acquire in the future. Pursuant to this agreement, they will vote these shares of Class B common stock together on all matters submitted to a vote of our common stockholders. To the extent that we cause our operating company to issue additional Class B units, which may be granted, subject to vesting, to our employees pursuant to the PIM LLC 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, these employees will be entitled to receive an equivalent number of shares of our Class B common stock, subject to the condition that they agree to enter into this Class B stockholders' agreement. Each share of our Class B common stock entitles its holder to five votes per share for so long as the Class B stockholders collectively hold 20% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding. When a Class B unit is exchanged for a share of our Class A common stock, an unvested Class B unit is forfeited due to the employee holder's failure to satisfy the conditions of the award agreement pursuant to which it was granted, or any Class B unit is forfeited as result of a breach of any restrictive covenants contained in our operating company's amended and restated operating agreement, a corresponding share of our Class B common stock will automatically be redeemed by us. For so long as our Class B stockholders hold at least 20% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding, they will be able to elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby control our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends. In addition, they will be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring approval of stockholders, and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors, and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. Our Class B stockholders have the ability to prevent the consummation of mergers, takeovers or other transactions that may be in the best interests of our Class A stockholders. In particular, this concentration of voting power could deprive Class A stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of Class A common stock as part of a sale of our company, and could ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a change of control that our stockholders may favor, which could also adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be 30 beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of our preferred stock and to designate the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of our preferred stock, each without any vote or action by our stockholders. We could issue a series of preferred stock to impede the consummation of a merger, tender offer or other takeover attempt. The anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may impede takeover attempts, or other transactions, that may be in the best interests of our stockholders and, in particular, our Class A stockholders. In addition, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected to the extent that provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws discourage potential takeover attempts, or other transactions, that our stockholders may favor. On October 28, 2008, we suspended our regular dividend to stockholders, and our ability to pay future regular dividends is limited by the terms and conditions of our debt agreements, and additionally will be subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure and applicable provisions of Delaware law. Due to certain restrictions set forth in our credit agreement and senior subordinated notes, as described above, we have had to suspend our regular dividend payments to stockholders. In the future, our board of directors may, in its discretion, reinstate the dividend at an amount to be determined by it. However, the ability of our operating company to make distributions to us so that we are able to make a dividend distribution to our shareholders is subject to its operating results, debt agreements to which it is or may be a party, cash requirements and financial condition and applicable Delaware laws (which may limit the amount of funds available for distribution to its members). If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we are unable to generate sufficient distributions from our business, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of future dividends on our Class A common stock. The disparity in the voting rights among the classes of our common stock may have a potential adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock. Each share of our Class A common stock entitles its holder to one vote on all matters to be voted on by stockholders generally, while each share of our Class B common stock entitles its holder to five votes for so long as the number of shares of Class B common stock represents 20% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding. The difference in voting rights could adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock to the extent that investors view, or any potential future purchaser of our company views, the superior voting rights of the Class B common stock to have value. If our common stock is de-listed from the NYSE, shareholders liquidity in their shares may be adversely affected and shareholders may have difficulty selling their shares or attaining a satisfactory price. In order for our common stock to be eligible to continue to be listed on the NYSE we must meet the current NYSE continued listing requirements. One of the NYSE's continued listing requirements is that the average closing price of a share of our Class A common stock must not fall below $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. (The NYSE has suspended this continued listing requirement until June 30, 2009 due to the precipitous decline in trading prices of many securities. Following the expiration of the suspension period, any non-compliance with the continued listing requirement would be determined based on a consecutive 30-day trading period commencing on June 30, 2009.) Any de-listing of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of, and the efficiency of the trading market for our common stock, in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price and through delays in the timing of transactions and less coverage of us by securities analysts, if any. It also could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital in the public or private equity markets if we were to determine that we need to seek additional equity capital in the future. 31 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 