ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The public should consider carefully the material risks described below, which we believe represent all the material risks related to our business, together with the other information contained in this Form 10-K, before making a decision to invest in our units. Risks associated with our business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, stockholders will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, stockholders will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders may receive less than $8.00 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination within the prescribed time frames and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution may be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to consummate a business combination, our public stockholders will be forced to wait the full 24 months before receiving liquidation distributions. We have 24 months from the effective date, or October 17, 2007, in which to complete a business combination. We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to such date unless we consummate a business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where investors have sought conversion of their shares. Only after the expiration of this full time period will public stockholders be entitled to liquidation distributions if we are unable to complete a business combination. Accordingly, investors’ funds may be unavailable to them until such date. Stockholders will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange and we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors are not afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances than we would if we were subject to such rule. We allow up to 29.99% of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which stockholders may not agree, and stockholders may not receive the full amount of their investment upon exercise of their conversion rights. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (other than our initial stockholders) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. We will consummate the initial business combination only if the following two conditions are met: (i) a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination and (ii) public stockholders owning 30% or more of the shares sold in our initial public offering do not vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights. Exercise of conversion rights must be effected pursuant to a specific process which may take time to complete and may result in the expenditure of funds by stockholders seeking conversion. A stockholder requesting conversion of his, her or its common stock into cash may do so at any time after the mailing to our stockholders of the proxy statement and prior to the vote taken with respect to a proposed business combination. A stockholder would have from the time we send out our proxy statement through the vote on the business combination to tender (either electronically or through the delivery of physical stock certificates) his, her or its shares of common stock if he, she or it wishes to seek to exercise his, her or its conversion rights, a period which is expected to be not less than 10 nor more than 60 days. There is a nominal cost associated with the above-referenced tendering process and the act of certificating the shares or delivering them through the DWAC system. The transfer agent will typically charge the tendering broker $35 and it would be the broker’s decision whether or not to pass this cost on to the converting holder. There may be additional mailing and other nominal charges depending on the particular process used to tender common stock. Although we believe the time period, costs and other potential burdens associated with the tendering process are not onerous for an average investor, this process may result in additional burdens for our stockholders, including mis-delivery or any other defect in the tendering process. Additionally, if a vote on our initial business combination is held and the business combination is not approved, we may continue to try to consummate a business combination with a different target until twenty four months from the date of our initial public offering, or October 17, 2009. If the initial business combination is not approved or completed for any reason, public stockholders voting against our initial business combination who exercised their conversion rights would not be entitled to convert their shares of common stock into a pro rata share of the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account. In such case, if we have required public stockholders to tender their certificates prior to the meeting, we will promptly return such certificates to the tendering public stockholder. In such case, they would then have to comply with the tendering process again for any vote against a subsequent business combination. 11 Table of Contents Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. Since 2003, based upon publicly available information, approximately 150 similarly structured blank check companies have completed initial public offerings in the United States. Of these companies, only 45 companies have consummated a business combination, while 22 other companies have announced they have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination, but have not consummated such business combination, and 12 companies have failed to complete business combinations and have either dissolved or announced their intention to dissolve and return trust proceeds to their stockholders. Accordingly, there are approximately 71 blank check companies with more than $13.2 billion in trust that are seeking to carry out a business plan similar to our business plan. Of these, there are 8 blank check companies which collectively have more than $891.5 million in trust that are focused on the entertainment, media, digital and communications industries. Furthermore, there are a number of additional offerings for blank check companies that are still in the registration process but have not completed initial public offerings and there are likely to be more blank check companies filing registration statements for initial public offerings after the date of this Form 10-K and prior to our completion of a business combination. While some of those companies must complete a business combination in specific industries, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. Therefore, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours. Because of this competition, we cannot assure our stockholders that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering not being held in trust are insufficient to allow us to operate for at for the full 24 months following the effective date of our initial public offering, we may be unable to complete a business combination. We believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account, plus the interest earned on the funds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to operate for the full 24 months following the effective date of our initial public offering, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure our public stockholders that our estimates will be accurate. We could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. A decline in interest rates could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete a business combination since we will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search, to pay our tax obligations and to complete our initial business combination. Of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, only $100,000 was available to us initially outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. We depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with additional working capital needed to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination, as well as to pay any tax obligations that we may owe. While we are entitled to have released to us for such purposes up to $1.5 million of interest earned on the funds in the trust account, a substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our initial stockholders to operate or may be forced to liquidate. Our initial stockholders are under no obligation to advance funds in such circumstances. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders will be less than approximately $7.90 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors and service providers we engage and prospective target businesses we negotiate with, execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for 12 Table of Contents the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that, even if such entities execute such agreements with us, they will not seek recourse against the trust account. Nor is there any guarantee that a court would uphold the validity of such agreements. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders. If we liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public stockholders, our management stockholders have agreed that they will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. Based on representations made to us by our management stockholders, we currently believe that they are capable of funding a shortfall in our trust account to satisfy their foreseeable indemnification obligations. However, we have not asked them to reserve for such an eventuality. Although we have a fiduciary obligation to pursue our management stockholders to enforce their indemnification obligations, and intend to pursue such actions as and when we deem appropriate, there can be no assurance they will be able to satisfy those obligations, if required to do so or that the proceeds in the trust account will not be reduced by such claims. Furthermore, our management stockholders will not have any personal liability as to any claimed amounts owed to a third party who executed a valid and enforceable waiver (including a prospective target business). Additionally, in the case of a prospective target business that did not execute a waiver, such liability will only be in an amount necessary to ensure that public stockholders receive no less than $7.90 per share upon liquidation. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure our stockholders we will be able to return to our public stockholders at least $7.90 per share. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until 24 months from the date of our initial public offering. If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection thereto, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after the expiration of the twenty four month period and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. We cannot assure our public stockholders that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of the date of distribution. Accordingly, we cannot assure our public stockholders that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the 13 Table of Contents trust account to our public stockholders promptly after October 17, 2009, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors or may have acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure our public stockholders that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing such warrants to be practically worthless. No warrant held by public stockholders will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless at the time such holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a registration statement relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant is effective and current and the common stock has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure our stockholders that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise. In no event will we be required to net cash settle any warrant exercise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current, the warrants held by public stockholders may have no value, the market for such warrants may be limited and such warrants may expire worthless. As a result, a purchaser of a unit may pay the full unit purchase price solely for the shares underlying the unit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the insider warrants may be exercisable for unregistered shares of common stock even if no registration relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is effective and current. An investor will only be able to exercise a public offering warrant if the issuance of common stock upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No public offering warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless the common stock issuable upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Because the exemptions from qualification in certain states for resales of warrants and for issuances of common stock by the issuer upon exercise of a warrant may be different, a warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for issuance of common stock upon an exercise and the holder will be precluded from exercise of the warrant. At the time that the warrants become exercisable (following our completion of a business combination), we expect to either continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange, which would provide an exemption from registration in every state, or we would register the warrants in every state (or seek another exemption from registration in such states). Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. However, we cannot assure our stockholders of this fact. As a result, the warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if the common stock issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. We are unable to currently ascertain the particular merits or risks of the business in which we may ultimately operate. Although we intend to focus our efforts on the entertainment, media, digital and communications industries, there is no current basis for our stockholders to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular target business which we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in our industry or a particular target business, we cannot assure our stockholders that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure our stockholders that an investment in our units will not ultimately prove to be less 14 Table of Contents favorable to investors in our initial public offering than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. We may not obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party as to the fair market value of the target acquisition or that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our stockholders. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that either the target acquisition we select has a fair market value in excess of 80% of our net assets held in the trust account (net of taxes and amounts disbursed for working capital purposes and excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount) or that the price we are paying is fair to our stockholders unless (i) our board is not able to independently determine that a target acquisition has a sufficient market value or (ii) there is a conflict of interest with respect to the transaction. If no opinion is obtained, our stockholders will be relying on the judgment or our board of directors. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 40,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share. Immediately after our initial public offering and the purchase of the insider warrants there were 13,740,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of the shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the purchase option granted to the underwriters) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitment as of the date of this Form 10-K, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in our initial public offering; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if we issue preferred stock with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; • may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • could enhance or adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination. 15 Table of Contents Our ability to successfully effect a business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The role of our key personnel in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following a business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure our stockholders that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following a business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous. Our key personnel will be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments or our securities for services they would render to the company after the consummation of the business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. However, we believe the ability of such individuals to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure our stockholders that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. As a result, a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us and we may miss out on a potential transaction. We may engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships with our initial stockholders, officers or, directors, which may raise potential conflicts of interest. In light of our initial stockholders’, officers’ and directors’ involvement with other entertainment, media, digital and communications companies and our intent to complete a business combination with one or more operating businesses in the same industry, we may decide to acquire one or more businesses affiliated with our initial stockholders, officers or, directors. Our officers, directors and stockholders may have conflicting fiduciary duties in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Also, the completion of a business combination between us and an entity owned by a business in which one of our officers, directors or stockholders has an interest could enhance their prospects for future business from such entity or lead to consulting or other arrangements with such entity. Despite our agreement to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm regarding the fairness to our public stockholders from a financial point of view of a business combination with a business affiliated with our initial stockholders, officers or, directors, potential conflicts of interest still may exist. As a result, the terms of the business combination may not be as advantageous to our public stockholders as they would be absent any conflicts of interest. For example, the purchase price of such a business combination may be higher than the purchase price for similar business combinations. 16 Table of Contents Our officers, directors and stockholders, and their affiliates may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Our officers, directors and stockholders may be, or may in the future become, affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers, directors and stockholders may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure our stockholders that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. As a result, a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us and we may miss out on a potential transaction. All of our officers and directors own shares of our common stock issued prior to our initial public offering and some of them purchased warrants following the initial public offering. These shares and warrants will not participate in liquidation distributions and, therefore, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors own shares of our common stock that were issued prior to our initial public offering. Additionally, certain of our officers and directors purchased insider warrants upon consummation of our initial public offering. Such individuals have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to their initial shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Accordingly, the shares acquired prior to our initial public offering, as well as the insider warrants, and any warrants purchased by our officers or directors in our initial public offering or in the aftermarket will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure our stockholders that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future prior to a business combination. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange will require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure our stockholders that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. Our business combination must be with a business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several operating businesses at the same time. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to diversify our 17 Table of Contents operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. Alternatively, if we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses and such businesses are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our initial stockholders) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata portion of the trust account. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. We may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. Because of our limited resources and structure, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from entities other than blank check companies having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. Because only 67 of the 150 blank check companies that have gone public in the United States since 2003 have either consummated a business combination or entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination, it may indicate that there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities like our company or that many privately held target 18 Table of Contents businesses are not inclined to enter into these types of transactions with publicly held blank check companies like ours. If we are unable to consummate a business combination with a target business within the prescribed time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or the obligation to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure our stockholders that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our initial stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our initial stockholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively own approximately 18% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. However, if a significant number of stockholders vote, or indicate an intention to vote, against a proposed business combination, our officers, directors and stockholders and their affiliates could make such purchases in the open market or in private transactions in order to influence the vote. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of our stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial stockholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our initial stockholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We issued warrants to purchase 9,000,000 shares of common stock as part of the units offered in our initial public offering and 2,100,000 warrants to purchase shares of common stock to our insiders. In addition, on the same date, we consummated the sale of an additional 1,255,000 units pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option. We also issued an option to purchase 700,000 units to Pali Capital, Inc., which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of an additional 700,000 shares of common stock and 700,000 warrants. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants and option could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of any shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, our stockholders may experience dilution to their holdings. If our initial stockholders or the purchasers of the insider warrants exercise their registration rights with respect to their initial shares or insider warrants and underlying securities, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. 19 Table of Contents Our initial stockholders are entitled to make a demand that we register the resale of their initial shares at any time commencing on the date on which their shares are released from escrow. Additionally, the purchasers of the insider warrants are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their insider warrants and underlying shares of common stock at any time after we consummate a business combination. If such individuals exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their securities, then there will be an additional 2,250,000 shares of common stock and 2,100,000 insider warrants (as well as 2,100,000 shares of common stock underlying the warrants) eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional shares of common stock trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or may request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our common stock. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. A company that, among other things, is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, trading or holding certain types of securities would be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Since we will invest the proceeds held in the trust account, it is possible that we could be deemed an investment company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be invested by the trustee only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 having a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are nevertheless deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. Compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted funds. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We may effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States. If we did, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including any of the following: • tariffs and trade barriers; 20 Table of Contents • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • longer payment cycles; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • currency fluctuations; • challenges in collecting accounts receivable; • cultural and language differences; and • employment regulations. We cannot assure our stockholders that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws applicable to such company will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws of the country in which such company operates will govern almost all of the material agreements relating to its operations. We cannot assure our stockholders that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in this new jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Additionally, if we acquire a company located outside of the United States, it is likely that substantially all of our assets would be located outside of the United States and some of our officers and directors might reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties against our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. Foreign Currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial results. A target business with which we combine may do business and generate sales within other countries. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in such international operations. It is also possible that some or all of our operating expenses may be incurred in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies in those countries where we have operations against the U.S. dollar would increase our costs and could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Associated with the Entertainment, Media, Digital and Communications Industries We will focus our search on target businesses in the entertainment, media, digital or communications industries. We believe that the following risks will apply to us following the completion of a business combination with a target business in the entertainment, media, digital or communications industries. The speculative nature of the entertainment, media, digital and communications industries may negatively impact our results of operations. Certain segments of the entertainment, media, digital and communications industries are highly speculative and historically have involved a substantial degree of risk. For example, the success of a particular video game, program or series or recreational attraction depends upon unpredictable and changing factors, including the success of promotional efforts, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, public acceptance and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we complete a business combination with a target business in such a segment, our operations may be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights following a business combination, competitors may be able to use our technology or intellectual property rights, which could weaken our competitive position. If we are successful in acquiring a target business and the target business is the owner of patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property rights for those assets, both in the United States and in other countries. In those circumstances, we may file applications for patents, copyrights and trademarks as our management deems appropriate. We cannot assure our stockholders that these applications, if filed, will be approved, or that we will have the financial and other resources necessary to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement by others. Additionally, we cannot assure our stockholders that any patent, trademark or copyright obtained by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If we are alleged to have infringed on the intellectual property or other rights of third parties, it could subject us to significant liability for damages and may invalidate our proprietary rights. If, following a business combination, third parties allege that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights, privacy rights or publicity rights or have defamed them, we could become a party to litigation. These claims and any resulting lawsuits could subject us to significant liability for damages and could invalidate our proprietary rights or restrict our ability to publish and distribute the infringing or defaming content. We may not be able to comply with government regulations that may be adopted with respect to the entertainment, media, digital and communications industries. Certain segments of the entertainment, media, digital and communications industries, including broadcast networks, cable networks and radio stations, have historically been subject to substantial regulation at the Federal, state and local levels. In the past, the regulatory environment, particularly with respect to the television and radio industry, has been fairly rigid. We cannot assure our stockholders that regulations currently in effect or adopted in the future will not cause us to modify or cease any of the operations then being conducted by a target business that we acquire. Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements prepared in accordance with or reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, we will not be able to complete an initial business combination with some prospective target businesses unless their financial statements are first reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. The federal securities laws require that a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports and proxy materials submitted to stockholders. Our initial business combination must be with a target business that has a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) at the time of our initial business combination. We will be required to provide historical and/or pro forma financial information to our stockholders when seeking approval of a business combination with one or more target businesses. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, as approved by the International Accounting Standards Board, or IASB, and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (U.S.), or PCAOB. If a proposed target business, including one located outside of the U.S., does not have or is unable within a reasonable period of time to provide financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with, or reconciled to, U.S. GAAP or in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB, and audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 22 Table of Contents 