Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Markets and Industry Ongoing consolidation within the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect financial results. Ongoing consolidation within the banking and financial services industry could result in a smaller number of purchasers for our products and services. As banks and other financial services providers consolidate, they may experience a realignment of management responsibilities and undergo a reexamination of strategic and purchasing decisions, and we may lose relationships with key constituencies within our clients’ organizations due to budget cuts, layoffs or other disruptions. In addition, acquiring institutions may have their own in-house systems or outsource to competitors. The loss of business due to consolidation, in particular the loss of a large client due to consolidation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Effect of overall business cycles and other risks in the banking industry could adversely affect financial results. Our revenues are heavily dependent on services we provide to the banking industry and related financial service providers. To the extent that the health and stability of the banking industry are adversely affected by business cycles in general or business conditions that affect the banking industry in particular, our revenues and profits may also be adversely affected due to reduced expenditures for our products and services by banks and related financial service providers. In addition, our revenue and profits, including organic growth, are dependent on our banking clients’ ability to acquire, activate and retain customers. A portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. Any changes in economic factors that adversely affect consumer spending and related consumer debt, or a reduction in check writing or credit and debit card usage, could reduce the volume of transactions that we process, and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Loss of key clients or distributors could adversely affect our financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2007, revenues from M&I represented approximately 7% of our total revenue. In addition, M&I serves as service delivery partner for our BPO services. If we were to lose M&I or a combination of other clients, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We have entered into non-exclusive distribution agreements with several home banking providers, all of which resell our electronic bill payment services as part of their home banking offerings. To the extent that acquisitions or other consolidations occur within this industry, the demand for our services may be adversely affected. We face intense competition in all areas of our business from both external competition and business barriers of potential clients. If we fail to compete effectively or eliminate barriers for potential clients, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The markets for our products and services are intensely competitive and we expect to face increased competition in the future as new competitors enter the market and existing competitors expand their product lines 10 Table of Contents and services. Competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of their products and services. Some current and potential competitors have substantial resources. In addition, many of these competitors have established, or may in the future establish, cooperative relationships or strategic alliances among themselves or with third parties to compete with our products and services. We also face competition from our clients and potential clients who develop their own financial services in-house offerings. Further, potential clients may be reluctant to switch vendors or from in-house offerings to a new vendor as the conversion is a significant undertaking that has a potential for negative impacts such as loss of accustomed functionality, increased cost and business disruption. We face intense pricing pressure in obtaining and retaining larger clients. Larger clients are often able to seek price reductions when they renew a contract, when a contract is extended, when service or performance issues arise with the client, or when the client’s business has significant volume changes. On some occasions, this pricing pressure results in lower revenue or a client loss from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. Our inability to compete successfully in light of the above competitive pressures could result in a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to keep pace with evolving technology and changes in the financial services industry, our revenues and future prospects may decline. The markets for our products and services are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products and services obsolete and unmarketable in short periods of time. We expect new products and services, and enhancements to existing products and services, to be developed and introduced by others, which will compete with the products and services that we offer. The life cycles of our products and services are subject to dramatic shifts. Our future success will depend upon our ability to enhance current products and services, to develop and introduce new products and services that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards, and to maintain existing and establish new business relationships to help us develop and implement new technologies and to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing new products and services or producing enhancements that meet these changing demands, that we will be able to overcome difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products and services, that we will be able to maintain or derive the anticipated benefit from our existing business relationships or be able to establish new relationships or that our new products and services and enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products and services or enhancements in a timely manner, or if a release of a new product or service does not achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Our leverage and debt service requirements could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2007, we have total debt of approximately $1.75 billion. Such indebtedness could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition, results of operations and operational flexibility, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund growth, working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions or other cash requirements; • limiting operational flexibility in planning for or reacting to changing conditions in our business and industry; 11 Table of Contents • requiring dedication of a substantial portion of cash flows from operations (estimated at approximately 36% for 2008) to make payments on debt and interest, which would reduce the availability of such cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • some of the debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates and additional demands on cash flows from operations to make payments on our debt; and • limiting our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged, or whose debt is at more favorable interest rates and that, as a result, may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns. We expect to pay our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on outstanding debt with funds generated by our operations. Our ability to meet expenses and debt service obligations will depend on future performance, which may be affected by the factors discussed in this section, among others. If we do not have sufficient funds to meet our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. We may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable or at all, the failure to do any of which could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition and results of operations. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations (covenants) that could significantly impact our business operations and flexibility and failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default and lead to acceleration of repayment. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and/or the ability of one or more of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt or guaranties, grant liens, pay dividends or redeem stock, make investments or acquisitions, sell assets, engage in affiliate transactions, prepay or change the terms of certain debt, change our lines of business, the ratio of debt to EBITDA, and restrict the uses of our cash flow, asset sales, or other debt. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with the covenants contained in our debt agreements. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in existing or future financing agreements could result in an event of default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the repayment of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on the ability of Metavante and/or our subsidiaries to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if, for any reason, we are unable to comply with these agreements, or that we will be able to refinance debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. If additional debt is added to the debt levels that exist, the related risks that we now face could increase. Damage to the data centers or the data on which we rely could harm our business. Our data centers are an integral part of our business. Damage to the data centers due to acts of terrorism, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure and other causes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, because we rely on the integrity of the data we process, if this data is incorrect or somehow tainted, client relations and confidence in our services could be impaired, which would harm our business. 12 Table of Contents Failures in outsourcing or transaction processing facilities could adversely affect our business and reputation. An operational failure in our outsourcing or transaction processing facilities could cause us to lose business. Damage or destruction that interrupts our services to clients could damage our relationship with clients and may require us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment and recover data loss caused by the interruption. We have installed back-up systems and procedures to prevent or reduce disruption, but such steps may not be sufficient to prevent an interruption of services. An interruption that lasts more than several hours could cause us to experience a reduction in revenues or significant costs to recover operations and as a result could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. Network operational difficulties or security problems with our systems could damage our reputation and business. We depend on the reliable operation of network connections from our clients and our clients’ end-users to our systems. These networks are owned and operated by third-party telecommunications companies. Any operational problems or outages in these systems could cause us to be unable to process transactions for our clients and our clients’ end-users, resulting in decreased revenues. In addition, any system delays, failures or loss of data, whatever the cause, could reduce client satisfaction with our products and services and harm overall financial results. We also depend on the security of our systems. Our networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other disruptive problems. We transmit confidential financial information in providing our services. In addition, under agreements with certain clients, we may be financially liable if consumer data is compromised while in our possession, regardless of the safeguards we may have instituted. A material security problem affecting us could damage our reputation, deter financial services providers from purchasing our products, deter their customers from using our products or result in liability. Any material security problem affecting our competitors could affect the marketplace’s perception of online banking, bill payment and electronic commerce services in general and have the same effects. Lack of system integrity or credit quality related to funds settlement could result in a financial loss. We settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. Transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, ACH payments and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. These payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties and the facilitation of the payment. If the continuity of operations or integrity of processing were compromised this could result in a financial loss to us due to a failure in payment facilitation. In addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. A default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. A failure to comply with privacy regulations could adversely affect relations with clients and have a negative impact on business. In the course of providing services to our clients, we may collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential information on our clients and their customers. A failure of our security facilities and systems due to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar causes could result in the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information. Any such failure could result in damage to our reputation with our clients, expose us to the risk of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations, and negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents We may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which could impact our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. Our products and services are based upon sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new products and services. Further, the software and computing systems underlying our services have occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects. In addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms utilized by our clients. Defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of resources, negative publicity, damage to reputation and exposure to liability claims. If we are unable to continue to make acquisitions, our growth may be limited. A significant part of our growth has come through acquisitions and a key component of our growth strategy is based on our ability to make future acquisitions. As part of our acquisition strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of greater size than recently completed, with public or private companies, headquartered in the United States or internationally, or in industries outside of the financial services technology industry. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition targets or successfully complete acquisitions in the future due to the absence of quality companies, economic conditions, or price expectations from sellers. If we are unable to complete additional acquisitions for these or other reasons, our growth may be limited. Acquisitions may be difficult to integrate, divert management resources or dilute shareholder value. We have undertaken strategic acquisitions in the past and in the future we may acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products and/or technologies. Future acquisitions could pose numerous risks to our operations, including: • problems integrating the purchased operations, personnel, technologies or products; • inability of the acquired business to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow or for us to achieve cross-sale targets or synergies contemplated within the acquisition business case; • unanticipated costs; • diversion of resources and management attention from our core businesses; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and clients and on our ability to enter into new business relationships; • entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organization. In order to avoid triggering significant tax liability due to the Separation Transaction, as provided in Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the amount of equity that we can issue to make acquisitions or raise additional capital will be limited for up to two years following our separation from M&I, which will limit availability of equity to fund acquisitions during that time period. In addition, as we have significant indebtedness and the agreements governing that indebtedness contain limits on our ability to incur additional debt, we may be unable to finance acquisitions that would increase our growth or improve our financial and competitive position. To the extent that debt financing is available to finance acquisitions, our net indebtedness could be increased as a result of any acquisitions. The use of equity to finance acquisitions could also dilute the interests of our shareholders. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and we may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third 14 Table of Contents parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or may develop competitive software or technology. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or services or design around our intellectual property rights. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which is expensive and could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm our business and ability to compete. The financial services industry has been subject to claims of patent infringement relating to areas of check imaging, online banking and bill payment, and use of voice recognition units. We may be subject to costly litigation in defending ourselves and our clients against such claims. We also may be subject to costly litigation if our products or technology are alleged to infringe upon another party’s proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents which might be infringed by our products or technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our products or technology. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could require us to design around a third party’s patent or to license alternative technology from another party. In addition, litigation is time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of the time and attention of management and employees. Any claims from third parties may also result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. Litigation relating to our products could be costly and time consuming to defend. Since our products are used to deliver services that are integral to our clients’ businesses, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our clients. Product liability litigation arising from these errors, defects or problems, even if we were successful, would be time consuming and costly to defend. Existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate any limitations of liability provisions that are included in our agreements with our clients. We are dependent on senior management; failure to attract and retain skilled technical employees could harm our ability to grow. Our future success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical personnel. Because the development of our products and services requires knowledge of computer hardware, operating system software, system management software and application software, our technical personnel must be proficient in a number of disciplines. Competition for such technical personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future growth, if any, will also require additional sales and marketing, financial and administrative personnel to develop and support new products and services, to enhance and support current products and services and to expand operational and financial systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our growth strategies and we may experience constraints that could adversely affect our ability to satisfy client demand in a timely fashion. Our senior management team has significant experience in the financial services industry, either at Metavante or with clients or competitors, and the loss of this leadership could have a material adverse effect on our business operating results and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Changes in regulation of the Internet, the financial services industry and accepted industry practices could harm our business. As the Internet continues to evolve, government regulation of communications and commerce over the Internet is becoming more prevalent. Congress has adopted legislation imposing obligations on financial institutions to develop privacy policies, restrict the sharing of non-public customer data with non-affiliated third parties at the customer’s request and establish procedures and practices to protect and secure customer data. These privacy provisions, which apply to our financial institution clients and may apply to us, as well as other laws and regulations that are currently in existence or may be adopted that govern communications and commerce over the Internet, could limit the market for Internet-based financial services, impose liability for the transmission of protected data and increase expenses. The financial services industry is subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation, and financial institutions operate under high levels of governmental supervision. Additionally, the financial services industry is subject to rules of operation imposed by industry associations that dictate requirements of all industry participants. Our clients must ensure that our services and related products work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements applicable to them. Federal, state, foreign or industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations affecting clients’ businesses which could lead to increased operating costs and could also reduce the convenience and functionality of our products and services, possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. Significant changes in the valuation of the Indian Rupee could impact the valuation of our investment in Firstsource. Metavante has a significant investment in Firstsource Solutions Limited (“Firstsource”), an Indian-based provider of business process outsourcing solutions. This investment is included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and is accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Significant changes in the valuation of the Indian Rupee could impact the valuation of this investment and thus impact on the earnings of Metavante. Risks Related to the Separation Transaction We have a limited history as a stand-alone public company and may be unable to complete all changes necessary to operate effectively as a public entity following our separation from M&I. Immediately preceding the separation from M&I, we implemented or enhanced our corporate infrastructure including, but not limited to, insurance, accounting, legal, finance, tax and human resources. During the period following completion of the Separation Transaction we need to continue enhancing this corporate infrastructure and ensure it operates in a well controlled manner. During this transition, we will receive a limited number of services to be provided by M&I. However, there can be no assurance that we will successfully replace all services provided during the transition period or that we will complete successful implementations of our enhanced corporate infrastructure. Any failures could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting and other management systems and resources may not fulfill the financial reporting and other requirements to which we will be subject as an independent company. If we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal controls, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our financial results previously were included within the consolidated results of M&I and our reporting and control systems were appropriate for those of a subsidiary of a public company. Further, we were previously not directly subject to reporting and other requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the 16 Table of Contents “Exchange Act”). We now are directly subject to reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”). We are required to comply with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, the second annual report we file under the Exchange Act. Although we have been subject to this type of review as a subsidiary of M&I, the level of review required as an independent company will be higher due to our smaller size as an independent company and a consequently lower level of materiality in the review process. These reporting and other obligations place significant demands on our management and administrative and operational resources, including accounting resources. To comply with these requirements, we are upgrading our systems, including information technology, implementing additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hiring additional legal, accounting and finance staff. If we are unable to upgrade our financial and management controls, reporting systems, information technology and procedures and hire additional staff in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with the financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. Therefore, any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The historical consolidated financial information may not be representative of what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as a stand-alone company during the periods presented. The historical consolidated financial information included in this filing does not reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been as a stand-alone company during the periods presented. This is primarily because: • our historical consolidated financial information reflects allocation of expenses from M&I. Those allocations may be different from the comparable expenses we would have incurred as a stand-alone company. • our working capital requirements historically have been satisfied as part of M&I’s corporate-wide cash management policies. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we and/or one or more of our subsidiaries incurred a large amount of indebtedness and have assumed significant debt service costs. As a result, our cost of debt and capitalization is significantly different from that reflected in the historical consolidated financial information. • as a result of the Separation Transaction significant changes in our cost structure have occurred in comparison to the historical information reported, including the cost to establish appropriate accounting and reporting systems, debt service obligations, public company disclosure and SEC reporting, and other costs of being a stand-alone public company. The M&I share distribution completed as part of the Separation Transaction may be taxable to Metavante shareholders if there is an acquisition of 50% or more of the outstanding common stock of M&I or Metavante within two years of the separation. The distribution of M&I common stock to Metavante shareholders in connection with the Separation Transaction would result in significant United States federal income tax liabilities to Metavante shareholders, (but not M&I shareholders), if there is an acquisition of stock of M&I or Metavante as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the M&I share distribution and that results in an acquisition of 50% or more of the outstanding common stock of M&I or Metavante. For purposes of determining whether the distribution of M&I common stock to Metavante shareholders in connection with the M&I share distribution is disqualified as tax-free to Metavante shareholders under the rules described in the preceding paragraph, any acquisitions of the stock of M&I or Metavante within two years before 17 Table of Contents or after the M&I share distribution are presumed to be part of a plan, although the parties may be able to rebut that presumption. For purposes of this test, the investment by Warburg Pincus is treated as part of such a plan or series of transactions. Under the terms of the investment agreement, Warburg Pincus acquired 25% of the Metavante common stock outstanding at the time of the separation. Thus, an additional 25% change in the ownership of the Metavante common stock could trigger a significant tax liability for Metavante shareholders under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (for which M&I may be required to indemnify Metavante under the tax allocation agreement unless such taxes would not have been imposed but for specified acts of Metavante or its affiliates (including Warburg Pincus)). The process for determining whether a prohibited change of control as described above has occurred under the rules is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. If M&I or Metavante does not carefully monitor its compliance with these rules, it might inadvertently cause or permit a prohibited change in the ownership of Metavante or of M&I to occur, thereby triggering M&I’s or Metavante’s respective obligations to indemnify the other pursuant to the tax allocation agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on Metavante and/or M&I. Metavante will be primarily liable for these taxes, and there can be no assurance that M&I would be able to fulfill its obligations under the tax allocation agreement if M&I was determined to be responsible for these taxes thereunder. In addition, these mutual indemnity obligations could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire either party. In the event that Metavante recognizes a taxable gain in connection with the M&I share distribution because of an acquisition of 50% or more of the outstanding common stock of M&I or Metavante as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the M&I share distribution, the taxable gain recognized by Metavante would result in significant United States federal income tax liabilities to Metavante. Under the Internal Revenue Code, Metavante would be primarily liable for these taxes and M&I could be secondarily liable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 