Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Associated With Our Business We are a newly formed development stage company with no operating history and no revenues and, accordingly, our investors will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have any operations or an operating history, our investors will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire one or more operating businesses in the education industry. To date, although we continue to search for a potential candidate for a business combination, we have not entered into any definitive agreements with any target business for a business combination. We will not generate any revenues or income, other than interest on the trust account funds, until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you as to when or if a business combination will occur. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate, our public stockholders will receive less than $8.00 per share upon distribution of the trust account and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination, and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per share liquidation will be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of the offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. The per share liquidation value will be $7.92 per share, plus interest earned thereon (net of amounts released to us and net of taxes payable thereon), which includes the net proceeds of the offering and the private placement of the insider warrants and $1,590,312 ($0.24 per share) of deferred underwriting discounts and commissions. While we will pay, or reserve for payment, from funds not held in trust, our liabilities and obligations, and our sponsor has agreed to indemnify us under certain circumstances for such liabilities and obligations, we cannot assure you, where it is subsequently determined that the reserve for liabilities is insufficient, that stockholders will not be liable for such amounts to creditors. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. For a more complete discussion of the effects on our stockholders if we are unable to complete a business combination, see the section below entitled “Effecting a business combination—Liquidation if no business combination.” If we are unable to consummate a business combination, our public stockholders will be forced to wait the full 24 months before receiving liquidation distributions. We have 24 months in which to complete a business combination. We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to such date unless we consummate a business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where investors have sought redemption of their shares. Only after the expiration of this full time period will the public stockholders be entitled to liquidation distributions if we are unable to complete a business combination. Accordingly, investors’ funds may be unavailable to them until such date. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies, including the ability to receive all interest earned on the amount held in trust. Since the net proceeds of the initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business which has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we had net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC following consummation of the initial public offering, including an audited balance sheet, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors are not afforded the benefits or protections of those rules, such as entitlement to all the interest earned on the funds deposited into the trust account. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, a portion of the interest earned on the funds deposited in the trust account will be released to us to fund our working capital and will not be available at all to those public stockholders redeeming in connection with a business combination. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to complete a business combination. Based upon publicly available information, we have identified approximately 161 similarly structured blank check companies which have completed initial public offerings since August 2003, of which 63 have actually consummated a business combination and 36 have liquidated. As of such date, the remaining 62 companies have more than $12.6 billion in the trust account and are seeking to consummate business combinations. Of these companies 19 have announced that they have entered into definitive agreements for business combinations but have not yet consummated these transactions. While many of these companies are targeted towards specific industries in which they must complete a business combination, certain of these companies may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. As a result, there may be significant demand for the types of privately-held companies we target, which demand may limit the number of potential acquisition targets for us. - 12- Further, because only 82 of such companies have either consummated a business combination or entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination, it may indicate there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately-held target businesses are not inclined to enter into these types of transactions with publicly-held blank check companies like ours. We cannot assure you we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the prescribed time period. If we are unable to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time period, we will be forced to liquidate. The terms on which we may effect a business combination can be expected to become less favorable as we approach our twenty four month deadline. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we must adopt a plan of dissolution and liquidation and initiate procedures for our dissolution and liquidation and the distribution of our assets, including the funds held in the trust account, if we do not effect a business combination within 24 months after the completion of the offering. We have agreed with the trustee to promptly adopt a plan of dissolution and liquidation and initiate procedures for our dissolution and liquidation and the distribution of our assets, including the funds held in the trust account, upon expiration of the time periods set forth above. Any entity with which we negotiate, or attempt to negotiate, a business combination, will, in all likelihood, be aware of this time limitation and can be expected to negotiate accordingly. In such event, we may not be able to reach an agreement with any proposed target prior to such period and any agreement that is reached may be on terms less favorable to us than if we did not have the time period restrictions set forth above. Additionally, as the 24 month time period draws closer, we may not have the desired amount of negotiating leverage in the event any new information comes to light after entering into definitive agreements with any proposed target but prior to consummation of a business transaction. The fact we will proceed with the business combination if public stockholders holding less than 30% of the shares sold in the initial public offering exercise their redemption rights, rather than the 20% threshold of most other blank check companies, may hinder our ability to consummate a business combination in the most efficient manner or to optimize our capital structure. Unlike most other blank check offerings which have a 20% redemption threshold, we will proceed with the business combination if public stockholders holding less than 30% of the shares sold in the offering exercise their redemption rights. As a result of our higher redemption threshold, we may have less cash available to complete a business combination. Because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such redemption rights, we will need to structure a business combination meeting the 80% of our net assets test that requires less cash, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund the transaction in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. Alternatively, to compensate for the potential shortfall in cash, we may be required to structure the business combination, in whole or in part, using the issuance of our stock as consideration. Accordingly, this increase in redemption threshold to 30% may hinder our ability to consummate a business combination in the most efficient manner or to optimize our capital structure. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders from the trust account will be less than $7.92 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, with the exception of our independent registered public accountants, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we execute agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee they will execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account including but not limited to fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility and other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain an advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. We may elect to forego obtaining waivers only if we receive the approval of our Chief Executive Officer and the approving vote or written consent of at least a majority of our board of directors, including all of our non-independent directors. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In addition, there is no guarantee such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. - 13- Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than the $7.92 per share held in the trust account, plus interest (net of any taxes due on such interest, which taxes, if any, shall be paid from the trust account and net of any amounts released to us as working capital), due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to dissolve and liquidate, our sponsor will be liable to ensure the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of various vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us, to the extent necessary to ensure such claims do not reduce the amount in the trust account in order to preserve a $7.92 per-share liquidation price. In order to protect the amounts held in the trust account, our sponsor has agreed to indemnify us for claims of creditors that have not executed a valid and binding waiver of their right to seek payment of amounts due to them out of the trust account. However, we cannot assure you the sponsor will be able to satisfy those obligations. We believe the likelihood of our sponsor having to indemnify the trust account is minimal because we will endeavor to have all vendors and prospective target businesses, as well as other entities, execute agreements with us waiving all right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to monies held in the trust account. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our public stockholders. To the extent bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us, and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented to. None of our directors or officers has been a principal of, or affiliated with, a “blank check” company that executed a business plan similar to our business plan and none of such individuals is currently affiliated with any such entity. However, our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. While our officers and directors have agreed to present business opportunities first to the company, subject to any pre-existing duty they may have, they may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us, as well as the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Because the amount of time it will take to obtain physical stock certificates is uncertain and beyond our control, stockholders who wish to redeem may be unable to obtain physical certificates by the deadline for exercising their redemption rights. We may require that stockholders who wish to exercise their redemption rights tender physical certificates representing their shares to us not later than the day prior to the stockholders meeting. In order to obtain a physical stock certificate, a stockholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that stockholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical stock certificate. If it takes longer than we anticipate to obtain a physical certificate, stockholders who wish to redeem may be unable to obtain physical certificates by the deadline for exercising their redemption rights and thus will be unable to redeem their shares. - 14- Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. In the event of dissolution, stockholders may be held liable under the Delaware General Corporation Law for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders within 10 business days after the 24 month period and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with these procedures. Because we will not be complying with Section 280, we will comply with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, requiring us to adopt a plan of dissolution that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the only likely claims to arise would be from our vendors (such as accountants, lawyers, investment bankers, etc.) or potential target businesses. As described above, we intend to have all vendors and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account. As a result, the claims that could be made against us are significantly limited and the likelihood any claim would result in any liability extending to the trust is minimal. However, because we will not be complying with Section 280, our public stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution, and any such liability of our stockholders will likely extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our public stockholders amounts owed to them by us. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Any distributions received by stockholders could also be viewed under applicable Delaware fraudulent transfer laws and debtors/creditors could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after November 29, 2009, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, we may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price thereafter at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. The foregoing does not apply to the warrants included as part of the 2,800,000 warrants purchased prior to the offering, as such warrants are not subject to redemption while held by the initial holder or any permitted transferee of such initial holder. Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares underlying the warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee a registration statement will be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise our warrants. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrant only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have undertaken in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares underlying the warrants following completion of the offering to the extent required by federal securities law, and we intend to comply with such undertaking, we cannot assure you we will be able to do so. In addition, we have agreed to use our reasonable efforts to register the shares underlying the warrants under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the exercising warrant holders, to the extent an exemption is not available. The value of the warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. For example, some states may not permit us to register the shares issuable on exercise of our warrants for sale. We are not obligated to pay cash or other consideration to the holders of the warrants in such situations. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire worthless. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. - 15- Because the warrants sold in the private placement were originally issued pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements under the federal securities laws, holders of such warrants will be able to exercise their warrants even if, at the time of exercise, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants is not current. As a result, the holders of the warrants purchased in the private placement will not have any restrictions with respect to the exercise of their warrants. As described above, the holders of the warrants purchased in the initial public offering will not be able to exercise them unless we have a current registration statement covering the shares issuable upon their exercise. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 20,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. As of the date of this Annual Report, there are 1,134,900 authorized but unissued and unreserved shares of our common stock available for issuance, together with all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this Annual Report to issue our securities, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in the offering; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock; and · may subordinate the rights of holders of our common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to the common stock. Additionally, acquisitions in the education industry can be capital intensive, often using indebtedness to finance acquisitions and working capital needs. If we finance the purchase of assets or operations through the issuance of debt securities, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due, if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; · covenants that limit our ability to acquire capital assets or make additional acquisitions; and · our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. For a more complete discussion of the possible structure of a business combination, see the section below entitled “Effecting a business combination—Selection of a target business and structuring of a business combination.” - 16- Resources could be expended in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and other third party fees and expenses. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control, such as 29.99% or more of our public stockholders voting against the business combination and opting to have us redeem their stock into a pro rata share of the trust account even if a majority of our stockholders approve the business combination. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. We may have insufficient resources to cover our operating expenses and the expenses of consummating a business combination. We have received approximately $800,000 (not including up to $600,000 of interest we may earn on funds in the trust account, which we are entitled to in order cover our operating expenses and our costs associated with our plan of dissolution and liquidation if we do not consummate a business combination) from the proceeds of the initial public offering and the private placement to cover our operating expenses for the next 24 months and to cover the expenses incurred in connection with a business combination. This amount is based on management’s estimates of the costs needed to fund our operations for the next 24 months and consummate a business combination. Those estimates may prove inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with a business combination, or if we expend a significant portion of the available proceeds in pursuit of a business combination that is not consummated. If we do not have sufficient proceeds available to fund our expenses, we may be forced to obtain additional financing, either from our management or the existing stockholders or from third parties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing and our founding stockholders and management are not obligated to provide any additional financing. If we do not have sufficient proceeds and cannot find additional financing, we may be forced to dissolve and liquidate as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation prior to consummating a business combination. We will be dependent upon interest earned on the trust account to fund our search for a target company and consummation of a business combination. Of the net proceeds of the offering and the private placement, only approximately $800,000 is available to us initially outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. We will be dependent upon sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the additional working capital we will need to search for a target company and consummate a business combination. While we are entitled up to $600,000 of the interest earned on the trust account, if interest rates were to decline substantially, we may not have sufficient funds available to complete a business combination. In such event, we would need to sell additional shares of common stock, borrow funds from our insiders or others or be forced to dissolve, liquidate and wind up. Our ability to effect a business combination and to execute any potential business plan afterwards will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. Our ability to effect a business combination will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Although we expect most of our management and other key personnel to remain associated with us following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate terms with the combined company as part of any such combination. If we acquired a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain with us if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company following a business combination, it may be less likely management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment or consulting agreement or other arrangement. The determination to remain as officers of the resulting business will be determined prior to the completion of the transaction and will depend upon the appropriateness or necessity of current management to remain. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the management of our target business, and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed to be in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. If management negotiates to be retained post-business combination as a condition to any potential business combination, such negotiations may result in a conflict of interest. - 17- None of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company, which could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination. None of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company. Accordingly, you may not have sufficient information with which to evaluate the ability of our management team to identify and complete a business combination using the proceeds of the offering and the private placement. Our management’s lack of experience in operating a blank check company could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination and force us to dissolve and liquidate the trust account to our public stockholders as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Each of our officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. For a discussion of potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the section below entitled “Management—Conflicts of Interest.” We cannot assure you these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Certain directors and officers of ours own shares of our common stock, and certain of our directors own warrants purchased in the private placement, which will not participate in liquidation distributions and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. Our sponsor is partially owned, indirectly, by David Warnock, our President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and it is the sponsor that owns shares of our common stock, as well as warrants purchased in a private placement consummated prior to the initial public offering. The sponsor has waived its right to the liquidation of the trust account as part of our stockholder-approved plan of dissolution and liquidation with respect to those shares upon the liquidation of the trust account to our public stockholders if we are unable to complete a business combination. The shares and warrants owned by the sponsor will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of Mr. Warnock may influence his motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination in a timely manner. Consequently, his discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. Our founding stockholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent such expenses exceed the amount available outside the trust account unless the business combination is consummated, and therefore they may have a conflict of interest. Our founding stockholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent such expenses exceed the amount available outside the trust account, unless the business combination is consummated. The amount of available proceeds is based on management estimates of the capital needed to fund our operations for the next 24 months and to consummate a business combination. Those estimates may prove to be inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment or pay exclusivity or similar fees in connection with a business combination, or if we expend a significant portion in pursuit of an acquisition which is not consummated. The financial interests of such persons could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of less than $5,000,000 and our common stock has a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: - 18- · make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; · receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; · provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and · obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our common stock becomes subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. It is probable our initial business combination will be with a single target business, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. Additionally, we may face obstacles to completing simultaneous acquisitions. Our initial business combination must be with a business or businesses with a collective fair market value of at least 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding deferred underwriting compensation, and interest thereon, held in the trust) at the time of such acquisition, which amount is required as a condition to the consummation of our initial business combination. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the amount of funds available to consummate a business combination, possible complex accounting issues, which would include generating pro forma financial statements reflecting the operations of several target businesses as if they had been combined, and numerous logistical issues, which could include attempting to coordinate the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings with multiple target businesses. In addition, we may not have sufficient management, financial or other resources to effectively investigate the business and affairs of multiple acquisition candidates simultaneously or to negotiate the terms of multiple acquisition agreements at the same time, which could result in a failure to properly evaluate multiple acquisitions. Further, we would also be exposed to the risk that conditions to closings with respect to the acquisition of one or more of the target businesses would not be satisfied, bringing the fair market value of the initial business combination below the required fair market value of 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding deferred underwriting compensation, and interest thereon, held in the trust). Accordingly, while it is possible we may attempt to effect our initial business combination with more than one target business, we are more likely to choose a single target business if deciding between one target business meeting such 80% threshold and comparable multiple target business candidates collectively meeting the 80% threshold. Consequently, it is probable that, unless the purchase price consists substantially of our equity, we will have the ability to complete only the initial business combination with the proceeds of the offering and the private placement. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their redemption rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. At the time we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder the right to have such stockholder's shares of common stock redeemed for cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such redemption rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their redemption rights than we expected. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. - 19- We will not be required to obtain an opinion from an investment banking firm as to the fair market value of a proposed business combination if our board of directors independently determines the target business has sufficient fair market value. The initial target business we acquire must have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding $1,590,312 of deferred compensation to be held for the benefit of the underwriters) at the time of such acquisition. There is no limitation on our ability to raise funds privately or through loans that would allow us to acquire a target business or businesses with a fair market value in an amount considerably greater than 80% of the amount in our trust account (excluding underwriter’s deferred underwriting compensation held in the trust) at the time of such acquisition. We have not had any preliminary discussions, or made any agreements or arrangements, with respect to financing arrangements with any third party. The fair market value of such business will be determined by our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial community, such as actual and potential sales, earnings and cash flow and book value, and the price for which comparable businesses have recently been sold. If our board is not able to independently determine whether the target business has a sufficient fair market value, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA. with respect to the satisfaction of such criteria. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe the net proceeds of the offering and the private placement will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, in as much as we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of the offering and the private placement prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to redeem for cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our founding stockholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. Our founding stockholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively own 21.68% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock (not including the purchase of 2,800,000 warrants in the private placement by our sponsor). None of our other founding stockholders, officers and directors has indicated to us they intend to purchase units or warrants on the open market. In addition, our sponsor has entered into an agreement with the representative pursuant to which it will place limit orders for $4,000,000 of our common stock commencing ten business days after we file our Current Report on Form 8-K announcing our execution of a definitive agreement for a business combination and ending on the business day immediately preceding the meeting date for the meeting of stockholders at which such business combination is to be approved. These purchases will be made in accordance with Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act at a price equal to the per share amount held in our trust account as reported in such Form 8-K. Our board of directors is divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years, with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, initially only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our founding stockholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our founding stockholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. In addition, our founding stockholders and their affiliates and relatives are not prohibited from purchasing units in the open market. If they do, we cannot assure you our founding stockholders will not have considerable influence upon the vote in connection with a business combination. - 20- Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with the initial public offering as part of the units, and the private placement, we issued warrants to purchase up to 9,426,300 shares of our common stock. Additionally, we issued an option to the underwriters to purchase up to 625,000 units each consisting of one share and one warrant. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our founding stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our founding stockholders, including our sponsor, which purchased warrants in the private placement, are entitled to require us to register the resale of their warrants as well as their shares of common stock at any time after the date on which their securities are released from escrow. If such existing security holders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock (including those 2,800,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants included as part of the insider warrants), there will be an additional 4,362,500 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market and we will bear the costs of registering such securities. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. Our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which limits the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. Our securities are traded in the over-the-counter market and quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, an NASD-sponsored and operated inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not included in the Nasdaq Stock Market. Quotation of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board limits the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. Lack of liquidity will limit the price at which you may be able to sell our securities or your ability to sell our securities at all. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. We may be deemed to be an investment company, as defined under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, because, prior to the consummation of a business combination, we may be viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities (in this case United States government securities as described below) having a value exceeding 40% of our total assets. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our activities may be restricted which, among other problems, may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. Such restrictions include restrictions on the nature of our investments and restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. However, we do not believe our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in “government securities” with specific maturity dates or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to avoid being deemed an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940. The offering was not intended for persons who are seeking a return on investments in government securities. The trust account and the purchase of government securities for the trust account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either: (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business combination, or (ii) absent a business combination, our dissolution and return of the funds held in trust to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. - 21- Our directors may not be considered “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc. and, therefore, may take actions or incur expenses not deemed to be independently approved or independently determined to be in our best interest. No salary or other compensation will be paid to any of our officers or directors for services rendered by them on our behalf prior to or in connection with a business combination. We do not believe any members of our board of directors are currently “independent” as that term is commonly used. Under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., because our directors may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf, such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, state securities administrators could take the position such individual is not “independent.” If this were the case, they would take the position that we would not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Additionally, there is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. To the extent such out-of-pocket expenses exceed the available proceeds not deposited in the trust account, such out-of-pocket expenses would not be reimbursed by us unless we consummate a business combination, in which event this reimbursement obligation would in all likelihood be negotiated with the owners of a target business. Although we believe all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not they are deemed to be “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrator Association, we cannot assure you this will actually be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock held by the public stockholders. Since we have not currently selected a prospective target business with which to complete a business combination, investors in the offering are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the target business’ operations. Since we have not yet identified a prospective target, our stockholders have no current basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business’ operations. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company, an entity in its development stage and/or an entity subject to unknown or unmanageable liabilities, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you an investment in our units will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors in the offering than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. For a more complete discussion of our selection of a target business, see the section below entitled “Effecting a business combination—We have not identified a target business.” Your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination will be limited to voting for or against the business combination submitted to our stockholders for approval. Your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination will be limited to voting for or against the business combination submitted to our stockholders for approval. In addition, a proposal you vote against could still be approved if a sufficient number of public stockholders vote for the proposed business combination. Alternatively, a proposal you vote for could still be rejected if a sufficient number of public stockholders vote against the proposed business combination. We will need to consummate a business combination in the future to continue operations as a going concern. Our Report from our Independent Registered Accounting Firm raises substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue present operations will be dependent upon our ability to consummate a business combination. Potential sources for business combinations have not been established. Although we are exploring various alternatives, there can be no assurance we will be able to locate, negotiate or consummate a transaction with a suitable target business on acceptable terms, if at all. If a suitable business partner is not available, or if we determine it to otherwise be in our best interest not to consummate a business combination, we will, in all likelihood seek to liquidate, in which such event amounts currently held in our trust account will be returned to our common stockholders and our shares, along with our units and warrants, would then expire worthless. - 22- Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited beginning with our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm report on management’s evaluation of our system of internal controls. A target company may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Risks Associated with the Our Acquisition of a Target Business in the Education Industry We intend to seek a business combination with a company in the education industry. The following risk factors address issues that may arise in connection with the purchase of such a company. Because we have not yet identified a target business, there are likely to be additional risks applicable to any particular target business, and some of the following risks may be inapplicable. Therefore, you should bear in mind that the following risks are illustrative only. Failure of any acquired schools to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on operations and loss of external financial aid funding, which could affect revenues and impose significant operating restrictions on any business we acquire. Any on-ground or online schools we acquire can be expected to be subject to extensive regulation by federal and state governmental agencies and by accrediting commissions. In particular, the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of Education, or DOE, set forth numerous standards schools must satisfy to participate in various federal student financial assistance programs under Title IV Programs. To participate in Title IV Programs, schools must receive and maintain authorization by the applicable education agencies in the state in which each school is physically located, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the DOE and be certified as an eligible institution by the DOE. These regulatory requirements can be expected to cover the vast majority of operations of any business we acquire in the education services market, including educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and financial condition. These regulatory requirements may also affect our ability to acquire or open additional schools, add new educational programs, expand existing educational programs, and change our corporate structure and ownership. If any acquired school fails to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the school and its related main campus and/or additional locations, if any, could be subject to the loss of state licensure or accreditation, the loss of eligibility to participate in and receive funds under the Title IV Programs, the loss of the ability to grant degrees, diplomas and certificates, provisional certification, or the imposition of liabilities or monetary penalties, each of which could adversely affect our revenues and impose significant operating restrictions upon us. The various regulatory agencies periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements and restrictions. We cannot predict with certainty how any of these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether each of our schools will be able to comply with these requirements or any additional requirement instituted in the future. If we fail to demonstrate "administrative capability" to the Department Of Education, our business could suffer. DOE regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV Programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: • Comply with all applicable Title IV regulations; • Have capable and sufficient personnel to administer Title IV Programs; - 23- • Have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; • Provide financial aid counseling to its students; and • Submit in a timely manner all reports and financial statements required by the regulations. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria or any other DOE regulation, the DOE may: • Require repayment of Title IV funds; • Impose a less favorable payment system for the institution's receipt of Title IV funds; • Place the institution on provisional certification status; or • Commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV Programs. If we are found not to have satisfied the DOE's "administrative capability" requirements, one or more of our institutions, including its additional locations, could be limited in its access to, or lose, Title IV Program funding which could materially impact our future growth and financial prospects. If we do not meet specific financial responsibility ratios and tests established by the DOE, our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs. To participate in the federal student financial aid programs, an institution must either satisfy quantitative standards of financial responsibility, or post a letter of credit in favor of the DOE and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in the federal student financial aid programs. Each year, based on financial information submitted by institutions that participate in federal student financial aid programs, the DOE calculates three financial ratios for an institution: an equity ratio, a primary reserve ratio and a net income ratio. Each of these ratios is scored separately and then combined to determine the institution’s financial responsibility. If an institution’s score is above 1.5, it may continue its participation in federal student financial aid programs. We cannot assure you that we and our institutions will continue to satisfy the numeric standards in the future. Congress may change the law or reduce funding for Title IV Programs, which could reduce student population, revenues or profit margin. Congress periodically revises the Higher Education Act and other laws governing Title IV Programs and annually determines the funding level for each Title IV Program. Recently, Congress temporarily extended the provisions of the Higher Education Act, or HEA, pending completion of the formal reauthorization process. In February 2006, Congress enacted the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, which contained a number of provisions affecting Title IV Programs, including some provisions that had been in the HEA reauthorization bills. It is possible the Democrat-controlled U.S. Congress will revise provisions of the HEA in significantly different ways than were being considered by the Republican-controlled U.S. Congress in 2005 and 2006. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV Programs or the ability of schools or students to receive funding through these programs could reduce student population and revenues of any target business we acquire. Congressional action may also require modification of practices in ways that could result in increased administrative costs and decreased profit margin. In addition, current requirements for student and school participation in Title IV Programs may change or one or more of the present Title IV Programs could be replaced by other programs with materially different student or school eligibility requirements. If we cannot comply with the provisions of the Higher Education Act, as they may be revised, or if the cost of such compliance is excessive, our revenues or profit margin could be adversely affected. Regulatory agencies or third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us. If the results of these reviews or claims are unfavorable, our future results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Because education is a highly regulated industry, a company we acquire may be subject to compliance reviews and claims of noncompliance and lawsuits by government agencies and third parties. If the results of these reviews or proceedings are unfavorable, or if we are unable to defend successfully against third-party lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, limitations on the operations of our business, loss of federal funding, injunctions or other penalties. Even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a third-party lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or defend those lawsuits or claims. - 24- If our target business is unable to respond to the technological, legal, financial or other changes in the education industry and changes in our customers’ requirements and preferences, we will not be able to effectively compete with our competitors. If our target business is unable, for technological, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner to changing market conditions, customer needs or regulatory requirements, it could lose customers. Changes in customer requirements and preferences, the introduction of new products and services embodying new technologies, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render the existing products of the company we acquire obsolete. The success of our target business will depend, in part, on its ability to: • Enhance products and services; • Anticipate changing customer requirements by designing, developing and launching new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of customers; • Respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; and • Respond to changing regulatory requirements in a cost effective and timely manner. The development of additional products and services involves significant technological and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead time. We cannot assure you, even if our target business is able to introduce new products or adapt our products to new technologies, its products would gain acceptance among its customers. We may be unable to protect or enforce the intellectual property rights of any target businesses we acquire. We may acquire a target business whose business is dependent upon its proprietary technology and intellectual property. Accordingly, the protection of trademarks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets may be critical to the ability of our target business to compete with its competitors. In such a case, our target business will likely rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect any proprietary technology and rights it may acquire. Despite the efforts of our target business to protect its proprietary technology and rights, our target business may not be able to prevent misappropriation of its proprietary rights, disclosure of such rights to government entities in connection with performing work for them or deter independent development of technologies that compete with the business we acquire. Competitors may file patent applications or obtain patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with patents of any company we acquire. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce intellectual property rights, to protect trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. It is also possible third parties may claim our target business has infringed their patent, trademark, copyright or other proprietary rights. Claims or litigation, with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the competitive position and business of our target business. Depending on the target business or businesses we acquire, we may have to protect trademarks, patents and domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful in every location. With respect to certain proprietary rights, such as trademarks and copyrighted materials, of the target business or businesses we will acquire, the target business or businesses may have entered into license agreements in the past and will continue to enter into such agreements in the future. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of such target business or businesses’ proprietary rights or cause harm to such target business or businesses’ reputation. Our target business may regularly employ subcontractors to assist in satisfying its contractual obligations. If these subcontractors fail to adequately perform their contractual obligations, our target business’s prime contract performance and its ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. The performance by our target business of government contracts may involve the issuance of subcontracts to other companies upon which our target business may rely to perform all or a portion of the work it is obligated to deliver to customers. There is a risk our target business may have disputes with subcontractors concerning a number of issues including the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor. A failure by one or more subcontractors to satisfactorily deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact the ability of our target business to perform its obligations as a prime contractor. In extreme cases, such subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in the government terminating our target’s contract for default. A default termination could expose our target business to liability for excess costs of reprocurement by the government and have a material adverse effect on the ability of our target business to compete for future contracts. - 25- Our ability to execute our business plan will depend, in part, on our ability to respond to constantly changing trends and consumer demands. Our ability to execute our business plan will depend, in part, on our ability to originate and define products and trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our products and services will need to appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We cannot assure you we will be able to develop appealing products or have the ability to meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you any new products we introduce will be accepted by consumers. Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and trends could adversely affect acceptance of our products and services. Failure to establish and operate additional schools or campuses or effectively identify suitable expansion opportunities could reduce our ability to implement our growth strategy. In the event we acquire a company with on-ground schools, as part of our business strategy we may open and operate new schools or campuses following consummation of the business combination. Establishing new schools or campuses poses unique challenges and requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses and devote other resources that are different, and in some cases greater, than those required with respect to the operation of acquired schools. To open a new school or campus, we would be required to obtain appropriate state and accrediting commission approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible for federal Title IV Program funding, a new school or campus would have to be certified by the DOE and would require federal authorization and approvals. In the case of entirely separate, freestanding U.S. schools, a minimum of two years' operating history is required to be eligible for Title IV Program funding. We cannot be sure we will be able to identify suitable expansion opportunities or that we will be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate any new schools or campuses. A failure to effectively identify suitable expansion opportunities and establish and manage the operations of newly established schools or online offerings could slow our growth and make any newly established schools or online programs unprofitable or more costly to operate than we had planned. Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs in a cost-effective manner and on a timely basis. Prospective employers demand that employees possess appropriate technological skills. These skills are becoming more sophisticated in line with technological advancements across all industries. Accordingly, educational programs must keep pace with those technological advancements. The expansion of our existing programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by our students, prospective employers or the education market. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as our competitors or as quickly as employers demand. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to financial constraints, unusually rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired, our placement rates could suffer and our revenues could be adversely affected. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain the personnel needed to sustain and grow our business. The success of any business we acquire will depend largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers who generally have significant experience within the education industry. Our success also depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school directors, administrators and corporate management. Due to the nature of the business, we expect to face significant competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave and subsequently compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business efficiently and execute our growth strategy. If we are unable to hire, retain and continue to develop and train our employees responsible for student recruitment, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected. In order to support revenue growth, we need to hire new employees dedicated to student recruitment and retain and continue to develop and train our current student recruitment personnel. Our ability to develop a strong student recruiting team may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to integrate and motivate our student recruiters; our ability to effectively train our student recruiters; the length of time it takes new student recruiters to become productive; regulatory restrictions on the method of compensating student recruiters; the competition in hiring and retaining student recruiters; and our ability to effectively manage a multi-location educational organization. If we are unable to hire, develop or retain our student recruiters, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected. - 26- Competition could decrease our market share and cause us to lower our tuition rates. The education market is highly competitive, as we expect to compete for students and faculty with colleges and universities and proprietary schools, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we expect to have, which may, among other things, allow our competitors to secure strategic relationships with some or all of our existing strategic partners or develop other high profile strategic relationships or devote more resources to expanding their programs and their school network, all of which could affect the success of our marketing programs. If we are unable to compete effectively for students, our student enrollments and revenues will be adversely affected. We may be required to reduce tuition or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract students or pursue new market opportunities. As a result, our market share, revenues and operating margin may be decreased. We cannot be sure we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not adversely affect our revenues and profitability. An institution would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if its former students defaulted on repayment of their federal student loans in excess of specified levels, which could reduce its student population and revenues. An institution of higher education loses its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV Programs if its former students default on the repayment of their federal student loans in excess of specified levels. If any institution we acquire exceeds the official student loan default rates published by the DOE, it will lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. That loss would adversely affect students' access to various government-sponsored student financial aid programs, which could reduce its student population and revenues. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students. Interest rates have reached historic lows in recent years, creating a favorable borrowing environment for students. Much of the financing students receive is tied to floating interest rates. However, interest rates have increased recently, resulting in a corresponding increase in the cost to students of financing their education. Higher interest rates can also contribute to higher default rates with respect to student repayment of education loans. Higher default rates may in turn adversely impact eligibility for Title IV Program participation or the willingness of private lenders to make private loan programs available to students who attend any schools we may acquire, which could result in a reduction in student population. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations governing education activities could result in financial penalties and other costs which could adversely impact results of operations. On-ground schools use hazardous materials and generate small quantities of waste, such as used oil, antifreeze, paint and car batteries. As a result, schools are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and waste, and the clean-up of contamination at on-site or off-site locations to which hazardous waste is sent for disposal. In the event of non-compliance with any of these laws and regulations, or any on-ground school we acquire or establish, is responsible for a spill or release of hazardous materials, we could incur significant costs for clean-up, damages, and fines or penalties which could adversely impact our results of operations. The number of lenders and financial institutions that make federally guaranteed student loans and that guarantee Title IV loans is relatively small. The loss of any of these lenders or guarantors could cause a material adverse effect on revenues. While we believe the lenders would be willing to make federally guaranteed student loans to students if loans were no longer available from current lenders, we cannot assure you there are other lenders who would make federally guaranteed loans to students. If such alternative lenders were not forthcoming, enrollment and our results of operations and future operating prospects could be materially and adversely affected. - 27- Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 