D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history and recent entrance into new markets, especially our limited experience in the wind energy market, may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and future prospects. We have a limited operating history. GaoKe commenced operations in 2003 and to date we have conducted nearly all of our business within China through GaoKe. Accordingly, our operating history upon which you can evaluate the viability and sustainability of our business and its acceptance by industry participants is limited. Our business model has evolved in conjunction with our entrance into the international distributed power generation and micro grid market as well as our entrance into the wind energy market, and it continues to evolve in conjunction with the evolution of the alternative energy market in China and globally. We have expanded our distributed power generation business to markets outside of China but have not completed a project outside of China as of the date of this report. While we have completed constructions of our wind turbine production facility, we have only just begun manufacturing and have not completed any wind turbine units as of the date of this annual report nor have we generated any revenues from our wind energy business. These circumstances may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and future prospects, and you should not rely on our past results or our historic growth rate as an indication of our future performance. We have limited or no experience producing wind turbines, which is a critical component of our growth and overall business strategy. We only began production of wind turbines in June 2009, and as of the date of this annual report, we have yet to complete production of a single wind turbine unit. The production of wind turbines is a key element of our business strategy. However, it is a new line of business for us and one in which we have limited experience. Accordingly, it is difficult to forecast accurately our future revenues and expenses related to this business. Additionally, our wind energy operations will continue to be subject to risks inherent in the establishment of a new business, including, among other things, efficiently deploying our capital, sourcing components, developing our product and service offerings, developing and implementing our marketing campaigns and strategies and developing awareness and acceptance of our products. Our ability to generate future revenues from these operations will be dependent on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. To be successful, we must, among other things, begin assembly of wind turbines, demonstrate the stability of our wind turbines and establish market recognition in this business. This will require us to expend significant resources, including capital and management time and there can be no assurance that this aspect of our business will be successful. Our revenue depends on gaining new customers and we do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Our revenues have historically, and are expected to continue in the near future to, result from performing individual contracts in our power distribution generation and micro-grid system business that, once completed, typically produce only a limited amount of ongoing revenues for maintenance and other services. Furthermore, customers may change or delay or terminate orders for products without notice for any number of reasons unrelated to us. As a result, in order to maintain and expand our business, we must be able to replenish the orders in our pipeline on a continuous basis. We may not be successful in securing new contracts and therefore our revenues and profits may be reduced. It is also possible that some of our potential customers could choose the products of our competitors instead. Should they do so, we would suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. 5 Our manufacturing and assembly of wind turbines will entail significant amounts of working capital. If we cannot satisfy these working capital requirements the growth and development of our wind turbine business could suffer materially. Unlike our distributed power generation business, our wind turbine business will be capital intensive, and the assembly of wind turbines will entail significant working capital for the procurement of components and assembly. Our recovery of these costs will be dependent on customers purchasing our wind turbines. The working capital required to assemble wind turbines is primarily based on the costs of components. Upon placement of orders, our suppliers typically require a 30% down payment for components related to our more advanced 2.7 MW wind turbine units, and 10% to 30% down payment for components related to our 750 kW wind turbine units. If prices of key components used to build the wind turbines increase, we may require additional financing to produce our wind turbines. Additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we do not manage our growth successfully, our growth and opportunity to maintain and increase profitability may be hindered or impeded. We have expanded our operations rapidly during the last year and we plan to further our expansion efforts by capitalizing on acceleration of westward industrial expansion in China into areas poorly served by the national power grid, targeting customers outside of China and increasing and enhancing our ability to produce wind turbines. This expansion has created significant demands on our corporate administrative, operational and financial personnel and other human resources. Additional expansion into existing or new markets and new lines of business could strain these resources and increase our need for capital, which may result in cash flow shortages. Our resources may not be adequate to support our desired expansion. Consequently, our ability to take advantage of market demand for our products and services and to maintain and increase our profitability may be hindered or impeded. A change in priority for local governments or significant reduction in government subsidies or incentives could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from projects in cooperation with local governments, which are heavily dependent on government funding. In addition, the local government approval process is often slow, unpredictable and subject to many factors outside of our control. Curtailments, delays, changes in leadership, shifts in priorities, or general reductions in funding could delay or reduce our revenues. Funding difficulties experienced by local governments could also cause those institutions to be more resistant to change and could slow investments in energy projects which could harm our business. In addition, demand for some of our products is influenced by government incentives aimed to promote greater use of these products, technologies and potential energy sources. In many instances, such as in the biomass power market, applications for alternative energy products and technologies may not be commercially viable (or would be significantly less attractive) without these government incentives. The scope of the government incentives depends, to a large extent, on political and policy priorities in a given country, which could lead to a significant reduction in or a discontinuation of the support for these products, technologies or potential energy sources as the political or policy environment changes over time. A significant reduction in the scope of government incentive programs would have a materially adverse effect on the demand for some of our products and technologies, as well as our results of operations. We will rely on government refunds on importation tariffs and importation value-added tax on the components and raw materials imported for the production of our wind turbines. In April 2008, the PRC government changed its policy to restrict refunds on imported components and parts only for wind turbines greater than 2.5 MW which will increase our cost of assembling wind turbines that are less than 2.5 MW. We may not be able to retain, recruit and train adequate technical and management personnel, and increased competition for qualified personnel in China could result in an increase in wages that we may not be able to offer in order to stay competitive. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified technical personnel such as engineers, particularly those with expertise in the wind power industry. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our qualified technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified technical personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We rely heavily on the continued services of our executive management personnel, who have contributed to our growth and expansion. Our executive team plays an important role in our operations and the development of our new products. Accordingly, the loss of their services, in particular those of Mr. Jinxiang Lu, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. John S. Lin, our Chief Operating Officer, without suitable replacement (which may be difficult to find), could have an adverse affect on our operations and future business prospects. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. As a result, our business may be severely disrupted and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some or all of our customers. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain these key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled managerial, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. 6 Each of our executive officers and other key personnel have entered into employment agreements with us, which contain confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any disputes arise between our employees and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where some of our executive officers reside and hold some of their assets. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” A lack of adequate grid capacity in China could limit demand for our wind turbines and damage our business prospects. Our customers will rely on access to the electrical grid to market the wind power they generate. In 2008 nearly 8 GW of additional wind power capacity was installed in China. Installed wind power capacity is expected to rise to 25-30 GW by 2010 and 35-40 GW by 2012. Current grid capabilities are unable to cope with the expected increased capacity and it is likely grid bottlenecks will reduce the ability of wind power to access the market. If our customers are unable to access the electrical market, the demand for our wind turbines may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipated. Our technicians may have difficulty adapting our licensed technology to local conditions. In 2007, we entered into licenses to produce and sell wind turbines based on technology from Germany and Denmark. Our ability to develop these products depends on our technicians ability to understand and localize this technology. For example, the wind turbines must be adapted to operate in Northern China, which typically has temperatures that are much colder in the winter than temperatures in Germany and Denmark. If our technicians fail to understand or adopt this technology for application in China, it may cause significantly delays in the development of our wind turbines and we may be required to spend a significant amount of time and financial resources to resolve these technical problems. We are dependent on our licensing partners, and events involving these licensing partners or any future licensing partners could prevent us from developing our wind turbine business. The success of our current business strategy will depend in part on our ability to successfully perform under and manage strategic licensing partners. Since we do not currently possess the technology necessary to independently develop and assemble wind turbines, we may need to enter into additional collaborative agreements to assist in the development of wind turbines in certain markets for a particular customer. Establishing strategic partnerships is difficult and time-consuming. Potential partners may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position, and our discussions with potential partners may not lead to the establishment of new partnerships on acceptable terms. We and our present and future collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products covered by our present and future collaborations. With respect to our licensing agreement with Norwin A/S, or Norwin, we agreed to pay the balance of the licensing fee of $1.7 million to Norwin in installments based on the number of 750 kW and 225 kW wind turbines we produce, provided that this amount is paid by February 15, 2009. As of the date of this annual report, we have yet to start producing any 750 kW or 225 kW wind turbines and have not paid the balance of $1.75 million to Norwin, however, Norwin has provided us written confirmation dated May 31, 2009 that the agreement we have with them is still valid. Nevertheless, in the event Norwin, or any of our other licensing partners terminates our licensing agreements with them, we may not be able to develop our wind turbine business, which would materially harm our wind energy business and our financial prospects. Moreover, disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to any technology developed with any current or future partner. Lengthy negotiations with potential new partners or disagreements between us and our partners or conflicts among our partners may lead to termination of our licensing rights or delays in the production of our wind turbines. If we are not able to establish additional partnerships on terms that are favorable to us or if our existing partnerships are terminated and we cannot replace them, we may not be able to develop our wind turbine business. Any of the foregoing may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Systems that we develop and install may contain design or manufacturing defects, which could result in reduced demand for our services and customer claims and uninsured liabilities. We design, produce and oversee the construction of relatively large and complex electric generating, co-generation and micro grid power networks. At times these systems may contain design or manufacturing errors or defects, including defects in equipment that we purchases for use with our systems. Any defects in our systems may result in claims for economic damage, delays in completion, or reduced or cancelled customer orders. If these types of problems occur, we may incur additional costs, and if they occur frequently, we may sustain additional costs, loss of business reputation and legal liability. The liability of product suppliers in China is evolving. Until recently that liability has been difficult to impose for various reasons, including an underdeveloped civil justice system. As a result, the need for insurance has not been substantial, and the types of insurance products that western companies typically procure to protect against these risks may be difficult or even impossible to obtain at reasonable cost or any cost. If a litigant were successful against us it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect our market reputation which could result in a decline in demand for our products. 7 We expect to rely increasingly on our proprietary products and systems and on technology developed by our licensors, and if we or our licensors become involved in an intellectual property dispute, we may be forced to spend a significant amount of time and financial resources to resolve such intellectual property dispute, diverting time and resources away from our business and operations. Our business is based on a number of proprietary products and systems, which we protect as trade secrets, and we recently licensed wind turbine technology from third parties. We expect that our reliance on these proprietary products, systems and technology will grow, as the functionality of distributed power generation and micro power grids increases to meet customer demand, as we commence and expand our wind turbine production and as we try to open new markets for our products. If a third party should infringe on any of our intellectual property rights or those of our licensors, we may need to devote significant time and financial resources to attempt to halt the infringement, and we may not be successful in such a dispute. Similarly, in the event of an infringement claim against us or our licensors, we may be required to spend a significant amount of time and financial resources to resolve the claim. We may not be successful in defending our position or negotiating an alternative. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Our alternative energy products and systems compete with different products and systems as well as other renewable energy sources in the alternative energy market. If we fail to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors, our business prospects and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We operate in an industry that is competitive and developing rapidly. If we fail to attract and retain customers in our target markets for our current and future products and systems, we will be unable to increase our revenues and market share. We often compete with local and international producers of alternative energy systems and products that are substantially larger than us, including the divisions of large international conglomerates. We may also face competition from new entrants to the market for alternative energy systems and products, including those that offer more advanced or different technological solutions or that have greater financial resources. A significant number of potential competitors are developing or currently producing products based on advanced technologies which may eventually offer cost advantages over our products, systems and technologies. A widespread adoption of any of these competitive technologies could result in a rapid decline in our position in the renewable energy market and our revenues if we fail to adopt such technologies. Furthermore, the entire alternative energy industry also faces competition from conventional energy and non-renewable energy providers. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. This is particularly the case with respect to our wind energy business. The greater size of many of our competitors provides them with cost advantages as a result of their economies of scale and their ability to obtain volume discounts and purchase raw materials at lower prices. As a result, such competitors may have stronger bargaining power with their suppliers and have an advantage over us in pricing as well as securing sufficient supply of required components during times of shortage. Many of our competitors also have better brand name recognition, more established distribution networks, larger customer bases or more in-depth knowledge of the target markets. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the research and development, promotion and sale of their products and respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions as compared to us. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or future competitors would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations. A shortage of adequate components could increase our costs or cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders, and our failure to estimate customer demand properly may result in excess component inventories that could adversely affect our future growth. Occasionally, we may experience a supply shortage, or a delay in receiving, certain component parts for wind turbines as a result of strong demand for the component parts, such as gear boxes, generators and blades, and/or capacity constraints or other problems experienced by suppliers. This is particularly true with respect to component parts for our 2.7 MW wind turbines that use advanced technology, and with respect to which we compete globally against other wind turbine producers purchasing the same components. Component parts for our 750 kW and 225 kW wind turbines are more readily available domestically and internationally. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. Conversely, we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new wind turbines in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Our operating results would also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we need. Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. 8 Our foreign sources of components may not always be reliable, which may result in a disruption in the supply of parts to our production facilities and cause delays in our wind turbine assembly. We currently purchase components directly from foreign suppliers for our wind turbine assembly. Our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs and quotas. We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business with foreign suppliers and importing components from abroad, such as: (i) political instability; (ii) security measures at Chinese ports, which could delay delivery of imports; (iii) imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into China from countries in a region within which we do business; (iv) imposition of duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; (v) delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to the failure of foreign-source suppliers to comply with applicable import regulations; (vi) delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to organized labor strikes or unexpected or significant port congestion at Chinese ports; and (vii) local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards which may result in adverse publicity. Any inability on our part to rely on our foreign sources of production due to any of the factors listed above could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our wind turbine production facility and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Given that many of the wind farm operators are large state-owned power companies in China with extensive bargaining power, we may not be able to pass on the increase of costs of wind turbine components to our customers, reducing our margins and negatively affecting our results of operations. Our expansion of our business outside of China will subject us to risks inherent in conducting business internationally and may not be successful. To date we have conducted nearly all of our business within China. However, a key component of our business strategy is to expand our international activities. The expansion of our business internationally will require meaningful amounts of management time and attention. Our products and our overall approach to the distributed power generation and micro grid business may not be accepted in other markets to the extent needed to make that effort profitable. In addition, the additional demands on our management from these activities may detract from their efforts in the Chinese market, causing the operating results in our principal customer market to be adversely affected. In addition, there are risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including: · Exchange rate fluctuations; · Political, economic, legal or other developments affecting target markets, including changes or developments in tax regimes or regulations relating to our industry; and · Potential tariff and trade barriers in target markets resulting in additional costs for our business and products. Our earnings may fluctuate from period to period due to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Renminbi and US$. Our functional currency is the RMB, however, we report our financial information in U.S. dollars. The value of the Renminbi fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies such as the U.S. dollar has been generally based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, which are set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. While the official exchange rate had remained stable over the past several years, the PRC has adopted a floating rate with respect to the Renminbi, with permitted ranges of fluctuation. Since we report our financial information in US$, fluctuations between the RMB and US$ could result in swings in our reported results of operations. 9 Inclement weather conditions could adversely affect our operating results in particular quarters and/or fiscal years. We recognize revenue on our distributed power generation system projects on a percentage completion basis. Historically, we have completed these projects in 12 to 24 months, depending on the size of the project. However, completion dates of our distributed power generation projects in North East China, where a majority of our projects are located, are difficult to predict primarily due to the unpredictable and potentially harsh weather conditions in this region from November through March of each year. As a result, a significant amount of expected revenue could go unrealized in particular quarters and/or fiscal years. For example, in addition to our expected seasonality slowdown in production during the winter months, extremely cold and stormy weather conditions in Northern China can cause unexpected delays in production. The number and length of project delays resulting from adverse weather conditions are difficult to predict and may adversely affect our operating results in particular quarters and/or fiscal years. Increases in the price of raw materials and labor may increase our cost of sales and reduce our earnings. We typically procure the raw materials used in our distributed power generation project developments. In certain circumstances, our third-party subcontractors will procure raw materials. We also hire contract labor for our projects. We usually have provisions in our agreements with our customers that in the event the prices of raw materials or labor increase beyond a certain threshold (usually by an increase of 30% or greater), the agreements are subject to renegotiation to factor in increased prices. In China, raw materials can fluctuate in price, particularly the price of steel. In 2008, the average price of steel increased approximately 28% from January to August, and then dropped 36% from August to December. Other raw materials, such as cement and concrete blocks can also fluctuate. If we are unable to pass on such increases to our customers, our construction costs would increase accordingly and our earnings could be reduced. We may experience construction and development delays on our projects which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. The construction of distributed power generation systems and other forms of power plants involves many risks, including shortages of equipment, material and labor, labor disturbances, accidents, inclement weather, unforeseen engineering, environmental, geological, delays and other problems and unanticipated cost increases, any of which could give rise to significant delays and/or cost overruns. Construction delays may result in loss of revenues. Failure to complete construction according to specifications may result in liabilities, decreased efficiency, increased operating costs and reduced earnings. No assurance can be given that construction of future projects will be completed on schedule or within budget. In addition, we are evaluating opportunities in the market for the construction of biomass power plants. Substantial capital is required for developing and constructing new power plants and if we determine to enter that market we expect we will need to raise additional capital to pursue those opportunities. We may not be able to obtain new capital on reasonable commercial terms, or at all. Our ability to arrange financing and the cost of such financing depends on numerous factors, including general economic and capital market conditions, credit availability from banks or other lenders, investor confidence in us and the continued success of our business. Failure to obtain capital on reasonable commercial terms will increase our finance cost and may cause delays in any expansion plans. In addition, the operation of power plants involves many risks and hazards, including breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment, improper installation or operation of equipment, labor disturbances, natural disasters, environmental hazards and industrial accidents. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the above events, may adversely affect the profitability of a power plant. Future acquisitions may require us to incur costs and liabilities which may adversely affect our operating results. In addition to internal growth, our current strategy involves growth through acquisitions of complementary technologies, businesses and services and strategic alliances. Like other companies with similar growth strategies, we may be unable to continue to implement our growth strategy, and this strategy may be ultimately unsuccessful. A portion of our expected future growth in revenues may result from acquisitions. We frequently engage in evaluations of potential acquisitions and negotiations for possible acquisitions, certain of which, if consummated, could be significant to us. Any potential acquisitions may result in material transaction expenses, increased interest and amortization expense, increased depreciation expense and increased operating expense, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Acquisitions may entail integration and management of the new businesses to realize economies of scale and control costs. In addition, acquisitions involve other risks, including diversion of management resources otherwise available for ongoing development of our business and risks associated with entering new markets. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, obtain acceptable financing or consummate any future acquisitions. Finally, as a result of our acquisitions of other businesses, we may be subject to the risk of unanticipated business uncertainties or legal liabilities relating to those acquired businesses for which the sellers of the acquired businesses may not indemnify us. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of securities. Decreases in the price of oil and gas could reduce demand for our distributed power generation and wind turbine systems, which would harm our ability to grow our business. Higher oil and gas prices provide incentives for customers to invest in “green” energy technologies such as distributed power generation and wind turbine systems that reduce their need for petroleum-based fuels. Conversely, lower oil and gas prices would tend to reduce the incentive for customers to invest in capital equipment to produce electrical power. Demand for our products and services depends in part on the current and future commodity prices of oil and gas. Decreases in the growth of demand for electricity could reduce demand for our distributed power generation and wind turbine systems, which would harm our ability to grow our business. The China Electricity Council forecast that the rate of growth in China's electric demand will significantly decrease in 2009 as the growth in electricity consumption falls due to the continued downturn in foreign economies and the significant adjustments in the Chinese economy. If the resulting supply of electricity exceeds demand and there is a surplus of electricity generation capacity, then we may experience increased competition in the power industry leading to decreased demand for our distributed power generation and wind turbine systems, which would harm our ability to grow our business. 10 Risks Related to Doing Business in China The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as governmental policies, could affect the financial markets in China and our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments, especially in major metropolitan areas, or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. More generally, if the business environment in China deteriorates from the perspective of domestic or international investors, our business in China may also be adversely affected. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China, regardless of outcome, may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, a majority of our material agreements are governed by PRC law. We and our PRC subsidiaries may not be able to enforce our material agreements, and remedies may not be available outside of the PRC. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in the PRC may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the U.S. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC, which could result in misconduct and difficulty in complying with applicable laws and requirements. Our operations are conducted through subsidiary operating companies organized under the laws of the PRC. We acquired these Chinese operating companies in 2008. As privately held companies in the PRC, they have not historically focused on establishing Western-style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as modern banking, computer and other internal control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified internal control employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. If the PRC does not continue its policy of economic reforms, it could result in an increase in tariffs and trade restrictions on products we produce or sell. The PRC government has been reforming its economic system since the late 1970s. The economy of the PRC has historically been a nationalistic, “planned economy,” meaning it has functioned and produced according to governmental plans and pre-set targets or quotas. 11 However, in recent years, the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership in business enterprises. Our business has benefited greatly from that new outlook. Although we believe that the changes adopted by the PRC government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the PRC, additional changes still need to be made. For example, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC are still owned by government entities. Additionally, governments continue to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. We cannot predict the timing or extent of any future economic reforms that may be proposed. A recent positive economic change has been the PRC’s entry into the World Trade Organization, the global international organization dealing with the rules of trade between nations. Many observers believe that the PRC’s entry will ultimately result in a reduction of tariffs for industrial products, a reduction in trade restrictions and an increase in international trade with China. However, the PRC has not yet fully complied with all of obligations that it must meet prior to being admitted as a full member of the WTO, including fully opening its markets to goods from other countries, currency exchange requirements and other measures designed to ease the current trade imbalance that China has with many of its trading partners. If the scheduled actions to rectify these problems are not completed, trade relations between China and some of its trading partners may be strained. While the majority of our business currently is conducted solely within China, this may have a negative impact on China’s economy generally, which would adversely affect our business. It could also reduce or eliminate any benefits that we hope to achieve by expanding our business internationally. The Chinese government could change its policies toward, or even nationalize, private enterprise, which could reduce or eliminate the interests we hold in our Chinese operating subsidiaries. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activities and decentralization of economic regulation. The Chinese government may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. Changes in policies by the Chinese government that result in a change of laws, regulations, their interpretation, or the imposition of high levels of taxation, restrictions on currency conversion or imports and sources of supply could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. If nationalization of private enterprise were to occur, it is possible that compensation from the Chinese government would be available to us, however, the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises by the Chinese government could result in the total loss of our investment in China. A decrease in the rate of growth in Chinese industry and the Chinese economy in general may lead to a decrease our revenues because industrial companies in China are our principal current source of revenues. Industrial companies operating in China are the principal current source of our revenues. Our business has benefited in the past from the rapid expansion of China’s industrial activity, which has created additional demand and led to the formation of numerous additional companies that have need for our products and services. China’s industrial expansion has been fueled in large measure by international demand for the low-cost goods that China is able to produce due to labor advantages and other comparative advantages, such as governmental subsidies to offset research and development expenses and taxes and reduced land use/facilities costs for targeted industries. The Chinese economy may not be able to sustain this rate of growth in the future and any reduction in the rate of China’s industrial growth or a shrinking of China’s industrial base could adversely affect our revenues. The resulting increase in competition for customers might also cause erosion of profit margins that we have been able to achieve historically. A decrease in the prices paid under the national concession program for electricity generated by wind power generators or a reduction in the local content requirement that 70% of the valued of turbines installed under the program be manufactured in China may lead to a decrease in our revenues. Prices for electricity generated by wind power generators is generally either established by tender under the PRC central government's national concession program (for both private and state-owned developers) or negotiated on a case-by-case basis for individual wind projects that are not part of the concession program. In addition, provincial governments have established various pricing mechanisms for wind projects. The national concession program also requires that 70% of the value of turbines installed under the program be manufactured in China. Any reduction in the prices paid for electricity generated by wind power projects may reduce the demand for our wind turbines and any reduction in the local content requirement may lead to increased competition from foreign competitors further reducing demand for our turbines. 12 Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries and affiliated entities to make dividend or distribution payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands and conduct all of our business and operations through our subsidiaries in China. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund a statutory reserve until such reserve reaches 50% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the loan agreements governing that debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements we currently have in place in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries and affiliated entities to distribute dividends or other payments to us could materially limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business or otherwise fund and conduct our business. The dividends we receive from our wholly-owned operating subsidiaries and our global income may be subject to PRC tax under the new PRC tax law, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law enacted by the National People’s Congress of China, or the new PRC tax law, and the Implementation Regulations of the Enterprise Income Tax Law, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and is subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its global income, and “de facto management bodies” is defined as the bodies that have material and overall management and control over the business, personnel, accounts and properties of the enterprise. If the PRC tax authorities subsequently determine that we and our subsidiaries established outside of China should be classified as a resident enterprise, then our global income including the dividends we receive from our subsidiaries incorporated in China will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25%, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The new PRC tax law and its implementation regulations further provide that dividends distributed between qualified resident enterprises, which means the investment income derived by a resident enterprise from direct investment in other resident enterprises (other than investment income from stocks issued publicly by resident enterprises and traded on stock exchanges where the holding period is less than 12 months) are exempt from the enterprise income tax. As the term “resident enterprises” needs further clarification and interpretation, we cannot assure you that if we and our subsidiaries established outside of China are deemed as resident enterprises, the dividends distributed by our subsidiaries incorporated in China as foreign-invested enterprises to their direct shareholders would be regarded as dividends distributed between qualified resident enterprises, and be exempt from the enterprise income tax. In addition, even if we and our subsidiaries established outside of China are not deemed to be resident enterprises, they still may be regarded as a “non-resident enterprise,” and under the new PRC enterprise income tax law and its implementation regulations, dividends payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investor who is a non-resident enterprise will be subject to a 10% withholding tax unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. The direct shareholders of our subsidiaries incorporated in China as foreign-invested enterprises are located in Hong Kong. According to the Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Arrangement on Avoiding Double Taxation or Evasion of Taxation on Income agreed between China and Hong Kong in August 2006, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its direct holding company in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of no more than 5% (if the foreign investor owns directly at least 25% of the shares of the foreign-invested enterprise). The imposition of withholding tax on dividends payable by our PRC subsidiaries to us, or the imposition of PRC tax on our global income as a “resident enterprise” registered outside the PRC under the new enterprise income tax law could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Foreign exchange regulations in the PRC may affect our ability to pay dividends in foreign currency or conduct other foreign exchange business. We currently receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. RMB is not presently a freely convertible currency, and the restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside the PRC or to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars. The PRC government, through the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, regulates conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign invested enterprises, such as our operating subsidiaries, are required to apply for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates” and to renew those certificates annually. However, even with that certification, conversion of currency in the “capital account” (e.g. capital items such as direct investments or loans) still requires the approval of SAFE. There is no assurance that SAFE approval will be obtained, and if it is not, it could impede our business activities and restrict our ability to pay dividends. 13 PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 along with related procedural guidance in January 2007 requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equity of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” Under this public notice, PRC residents who are shareholders and/or beneficial owners of such offshore special purpose companies were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. We have requested our shareholders and/or beneficial owners who are subject to the registration requirements under the SAFE notice to register with the local SAFE branch. Failure of these shareholders and/or beneficial owners to register with the local SAFE branch as required by the SAFE notice or failure of future shareholders of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE notice may subject such shareholders and/or beneficial owners to fines and other government actions and may also limit our ability to fund our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to our company or otherwise adversely affect our business. Recently adopted merger and acquisition regulations relating to acquisitions of assets and equity interests of Chinese companies by foreign persons may subject our prior acquisitions to governmental review or make it difficult us to complete future business combinations or acquisitions. On September 8, 2006, new regulations relating to acquisitions of assets and equity interests of Chinese companies by foreign persons, or the M&A regulations, which were adopted by China’s Ministry of Commerce and several other governmental agencies, took effect. We completed our acquisition of our Chinese subsidiaries in January 2008. While we do not believe that the acquisition was subject to the M&A regulations, the regulations contain a number of ambiguities and uncertainties that will be resolved only with the passage of time and application of the regulations. It is possible that the future interpretations of the M&A regulations will differ from current interpretations and that under such future interpretations some aspects of our acquisition transaction may be found to be subject to the regulations. It is not possible to know the effect of such a determination, but it could conceivably include invalidating the transaction in its entirety. Were that to occur, it is possible that we would lose our ownership interests in GaoKe, perhaps without any compensation to be paid, which would substantially reduce the value of our common stock. In addition, we intend to grow our operations through acquisitions and business combinations with other companies, including companies in China, and such acquisitions and business combinations may be subject to the M&A regulations and related governmental approvals. To the extent that the M&A regulations apply, we expect that transactions subject to compliance with the M&A Regulations will be more time consuming to complete than before the M&A regulations took effect, will be more costly for the Chinese parties (making them less attractive), and will permit the government much more extensive opportunities for evaluation and control over the terms of the transaction. Therefore, it may not be possible to complete certain desirable acquisitions in China because the terms of the transaction may not satisfy the criteria used in the governmental approval process or, even if approved, if they are not consummated within the time permitted by the approvals granted. The PRC Labor Contract Law and its implementing rules may adversely affect our business and results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. On September 18, 2008, the State Council adopted the implementing rules for the Labor Contract Law, which became effective upon adoption. This new labor law and its implementing rules have reinforced the protection for employees, who, under the existing PRC Labor Law, already have certain rights, such as the right to have written labor contracts, the right to enter into labor contracts with no fixed terms under specific circumstances, the right to receive overtime wages when working overtime, and the right to terminate or alter terms in the labor contracts. In addition, the Labor Contract Law and its implementing rules have made some amendments to the existing PRC Labor Law and added some clauses that could increase cost of labor to employers. For example, under the Labor Contract Law, employers are required to base their decisions to dismiss employees on seniority, as opposed to merit, under certain circumstances. As the Labor Contract Law and its implementing rules are relatively new, there remains significant uncertainty as to their interpretation and application by the PRC government authorities. In the event that we decide to significantly reduce our workforce, the Labor Contract Law and its implementing rules could adversely affect our ability to effect these changes cost-effectively or in the manner we desire, which could lead to a negative impact on our business and results of operations. We face risks related to health epidemics, other catastrophes or acts of terrorism, which could disrupt our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by an outbreak of the avian flu, swine flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, another health epidemic, or catastrophe or an act of terrorism. In recent years, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. In April 2009, influenza A, or H1N1, a new strain of flu virus commonly referred to as “swine flu,” was first discovered in North America and quickly spread to other parts of the world, including China. In May 2008, a major earthquake hit Sichuan Province in southwestern China, causing huge casualties and property damages. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, swine flu or other adverse public health developments in China or elsewhere in Asia may have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. For instance, an outbreak of avian flu, a recurrence of SARS, or any other epidemic may lead to health or other government regulations requiring temporary closure of our business or the businesses of our subcontractors, suppliers or customers. In addition, terrorist attacks, such as those that took place on September 11, 2001, a significant earthquake or other geological disturbance in any of China’s more populated cities and financial centers could severely disrupt the Chinese economy or cause temporary restrictions on our business or the businesses of our subcontractors, suppliers or customers, which would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have limited business insurance coverage in China. PRC insurance companies do not offer extensive business insurance products. As a result, we have very limited business liability, disruption insurance, or product liability coverage for our operations in China. We have determined that the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially applicable terms and the nature of the industry makes it impractical for us to obtain such coverage. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster could result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources, which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. 14 Risks Related to Our Shares We have a substantial, but not majority, shareholder, whose interests may not be aligned with the interest of our other shareholders. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Jinxiang Lu, beneficially owns approximately 31.2% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, Mr. Lu may exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of a majority of the directors and the determination of significant corporate actions. In addition, under the terms of the purchase agreement dated April 14, 2007 pursuant to which we acquired our Chinese operating companies, we are obligated to issue an aggregate of up to 9,000,0000 additional shares to Mr. Lu if we reach certain levels of after-tax profit for each year from 2007 through 2012. We satisfied the after-tax profit minimum for 2007 and 2008 and have issued 1,000,000 shares in respect of 2007 which are included in the percentage ownership figure above, and expect to issue an additional 1,000,000 shares in respect of 2008 later this year. Pursuant to an agreement between Mr. Lu and Mr. Lin, our Chief Operating Officer and Director, Mr. Lu will transfer 5% of any of these additional incentive shares issued to him to Mr. Lin. Mr. Lin beneficially owns approximately 4.7% of our outstanding common stock. If all of the remaining 7,000,000 additional shares are issued to Mr. Lu, his percentage ownership, along with Mr. Lin’s percentage ownership of our shares would increase significantly. The concentration of ownership by Mr. Lu and Mr. Lin may preclude actions being taken even if supported by our other shareholders. In addition, it may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of any sale of our company. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, rules mandating that certain information be made available to shareholders of United States public companies. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: · the rules requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; · the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations with respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act; · Regulation FD precluding selective disclosures of material information; and · the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders file public prompt reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short swing” trading transactions (i.e., a purchase and sale, or a sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, our shareholders will not be afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. You may experience dilution due to future sales of common shares or convertibles debt or the issuances of common shares upon conversion of outstanding convertible notes and warrants. We may require additional cash resources to finance our continued growth or other future developments. To satisfy our financing needs in the future, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities. The sale of additional equity securities, including additional warrants, or convertible debt securities, could result in dilution to our shareholders. In addition, the conversion of our outstanding convertible notes and warrants issued in June 2009 to certain institutional investors could result in dilution to our existing common shareholders. The convertible notes contain provisions that will reset the conversion ratio in certain circumstances after the common shares underlying the convertible notes become freely tradable. Any such resetting of the conversion ratio could result in further dilution to our shareholders. Further, the convertible notes and the warrants issued in connection with the convertible notes contain full-ratchet anti-dilution rights for a period of two years. As a result of these anti-dilution rights, if we issue or grant in the future any rights to purchase any of our common shares, or other security convertible into our common shares, for an effective per share price less than the conversion price then in effect with respect to the convertible notes, or the exercise price then in effect with respect to the warrants, the conversion price of all unconverted notes will be decreased to equal such lower price and the exercise of all unexercised warrants will be reduced to equal such lower price. The foregoing adjustments to the conversion price of the notes and the exercise price of the warrants will not apply to certain exempt issuances, including issuances pursuant to employee stock option plans. After two years, the notes and the warrants are subject to standard weighted-average anti-dilution protection. 15 Our U.S. shareholders may not be able to obtain jurisdiction over our officers or directors or access to our assets located in the PRC in the event of a lawsuit and, as a result, may not be able to enforce their legal rights against us and/or our officers and directors. Because most of our officers and directors reside outside of the U.S., it may be difficult for U.S. shareholders to acquire jurisdiction over these persons in the event of a lawsuit against us and/or our officers and directors. It also is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the U.S. and the PRC would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of federal securities laws against us or our officers and directors. Furthermore, because substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC, it would also be extremely difficult to access those assets to satisfy an award entered against us in U.S. court. Moreover, we have been advised that the PRC does not have treaties with the U.S. providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the U.S. to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under U.S. federal securities laws. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur higher general and administrative costs as a result of being a public company. As a result of our business combination transactions and listing on NASDAQ in 2008, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur a significantly higher level of legal, accounting and other expenses than we did before we became a public company. As a public company, we are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies listed on U.S. national stock exchanges, including foreign private issuers such as us. The U.S. securities laws and related rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made certain activities more time-consuming and costly. We will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with our obligations as a public company including complying with the internal control over financial reporting obligations of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our reporting obligations as a public company will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Investor confidence and the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted if we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. As a public company, we are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring most public companies to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the company’s independent registered public accounting firms must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal controls are not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree. If our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our internal control over financial reporting is documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do, then they may issue an adverse or qualified opinion. Historically, our business has been conducted as a private company and we have had limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. In respect of 2008, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We have taken, and will continue to take, steps to improve our internal control over financial reporting. However, if we fail to timely achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting for subsequent years. Moreover effective internal control over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability and completeness of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly and we may not be able to meet requirements for continued listing on NASDAQ. The market price for our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · announcements of technological or competitive developments by us and our competitors; · regulatory developments in China and our other target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; 16 · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies that focus on the China market; · departures or additions of executive officers or other key personnel; and · fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and RMB. The securities markets have also from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, there is no assurance that we will continue to meet the NASDAQ Global Select listing requirements, or that there will be an active, liquid trading market for our common stock in the future. Failure to meet the NASDAQ Global Select Market’s continued listing requirements could result in the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, which may adversely affect the liquidity of our shares, the price that can be obtained for them, or both. We may not pay cash dividends, so the liquidity of your investment depends on your ability to sell your shares at an acceptable price. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Instead, we expect to apply earnings toward the further expansion and development of our business. Thus, the liquidity of your investment is dependent upon your ability to sell stock at an acceptable price, rather than receiving an income stream from it. Fluctuations in the market price of our shares may limit your ability to realize any value from your investment, including recovering the initial purchase price. Certain provisions of our Memorandum and Articles of Association may have the effect of preventing an acquisition or tender offer which might be viewed by our shareholders to be in their best interests. Certain provisions of our Memorandum and Articles of Association, including our advance notice requirement for shareholder proposals to be brought before our annual meeting of shareholders and restrictions on the ability of our shareholders to call a meeting, are designed in part to discourage any tender offer or other attempt to gain control of our company in a transaction that is not approved by our board of directors. However, to the extent these provisions discourage a change of control or tender offer for all or part of our authorized shares, they may have the effect of preventing an acquisition or tender offer which might be viewed by shareholders to be in their best interests. These provisions may also serve to insulate incumbent management from change and to discourage not only sudden or hostile takeover attempts, but also any attempts to acquire control that are not approved by our board of directors. We are organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands and, because the rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have fewer protections as a shareholder than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association, the Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibility of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are governed by the common law of the British Virgin Islands and the Business Companies Act. The common law of the British Virgin Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the British Virgin Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the British Virgin Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the British Virgin Islands has a less prescriptive body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. BVI law also provides greater restrictions on the abilities of shareholders to initiate derivative actions than are provided under the laws of many U.S. jurisdictions. You may not be able initiate shareholder derivative actions in U.S. courts and, in addition, British Virgin Islands courts are less likely to enforce against us judgments of courts in the U.S., thereby potentially depriving our shareholders of the ability to protect their interests. Shareholders of British Virgin Islands companies may not be able to initiate shareholder derivative actions in a federal court of the United States. The circumstances in which any such action may be brought, and the procedures and defenses that may be available in respect to any such action, may result in the rights of shareholders of a British Virgin Islands company, such as ours, being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Accordingly, shareholders may have fewer alternatives available to them if they believe that corporate wrongdoing has occurred. The British Virgin Islands courts are also unlikely to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts in the United States based on certain liability provisions of U.S. securities law; and to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands, based on certain liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the British Virgin Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the British Virgin Islands will generally recognize and enforce the non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. This means that even if shareholders were to sue us successfully, they may not be able to recover anything to make up for the losses suffered as the basis for a claim at common law in the British Virgin Islands unless certain conditions were satisfied. 17 We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our common stock. We do not expect to be considered a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ending December 31, 2009. However, the determination of our PFIC status is dependent upon the composition of our income and assets and, in addition, we must make a separate determination at the close of each taxable year as to whether we are a PFIC. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2009, or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The market value of our assets will be determined based on the market price of our common stock, which is likely to fluctuate. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. person held our common stock, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. person. See Item 10., “Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” ITEM 