risk factors address issues that may arise in connection with the purchase of such a company. Because we have not yet identified a target business, there are likely to be additional risks applicable to any particular target business, and some of the following risks may be inapplicable. Therefore, you should bear in mind that the following risks are illustrative only. Failure of any acquired schools to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on operations and loss of external financial aid funding, which could affect revenues and impose significant operating restrictions on any business we acquire. Any on-ground or online schools we acquire can be expected to be subject to extensive regulation by federal and state governmental agencies and by accrediting commissions. In particular, the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of Education, or DOE, set forth numerous standards schools must satisfy to participate in various federal student financial assistance programs under Title IV Programs. To participate in Title IV Programs, schools must receive and maintain authorization by the applicable education agencies in the state in which each school is physically located, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the DOE and be certified as an eligible institution by the DOE. These regulatory requirements can be expected to cover the vast majority of operations of any business we acquire in the education services market, including educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and financial condition. These regulatory requirements may also affect our ability to acquire or open additional schools, add new educational programs, expand existing educational programs, and change our corporate structure and ownership. If any acquired school fails to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the school and its related main campus and/or additional locations, if any, could be subject to the loss of state licensure or accreditation, the loss of eligibility to participate in and receive funds under the Title IV Programs, the loss of the ability to grant degrees, diplomas and certificates, provisional certification, or the imposition of liabilities or monetary penalties, each of which could adversely affect our revenues and impose significant operating restrictions upon us. The various regulatory agencies periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements and restrictions. We cannot predict with certainty how any of these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether each of our schools will be able to comply with these requirements or any additional requirement instituted in the future. -22- If we fail to demonstrate "administrative capability" to the Department Of Education, our business could suffer. DOE regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV Programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: · Comply with all applicable Title IV regulations; · Have capable and sufficient personnel to administer Title IV Programs; · Have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; · Provide financial aid counseling to its students; and · Submit in a timely manner all reports and financial statements required by the regulations. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria or any other DOE regulation, the DOE may: · Require repayment of Title IV funds; · Impose a less favorable payment system for the institution's receipt of Title IV funds; · Place the institution on provisional certification status; or · Commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV Programs. If we are found not to have satisfied the DOE's "administrative capability" requirements, one or more of our institutions, including its additional locations, could be limited in its access to, or lose, Title IV Program funding which could materially impact our future growth and financial prospects. If we do not meet specific financial responsibility ratios and tests established by the DOE, our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs. To participate in the federal student financial aid programs, an institution must either satisfy quantitative standards of financial responsibility, or post a letter of credit in favor of the DOE and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in the federal student financial aid programs. Each year, based on financial information submitted by institutions that participate in federal student financial aid programs, the DOE calculates three financial ratios for an institution: an equity ratio, a primary reserve ratio and a net income ratio. Each of these ratios is scored separately and then combined to determine the institution’s financial responsibility. If an institution’s score is above 1.5, it may continue its participation in federal student financial aid programs. We cannot assure you that we and our institutions will continue to satisfy the numeric standards in the future. Congress may change the law or reduce funding for Title IV Programs, which could reduce student population, revenues or profit margin. Congress periodically revises the Higher Education Act and other laws governing Title IV Programs and annually determines the funding level for each Title IV Program. Recently, Congress temporarily extended the provisions of the Higher Education Act, or HEA, pending completion of the formal reauthorization process. In February 2006, Congress enacted the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, which contained a number of provisions affecting Title IV Programs, including some provisions that had been in the HEA reauthorization bills. It is possible the Democrat-controlled U.S. Congress will revise provisions of the HEA in significantly different ways than were being considered by the Republican-controlled U.S. Congress in 2005 and 2006. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV Programs or the ability of schools or students to receive funding through these programs could reduce student population and revenues of any target business we acquire. Congressional action may also require modification of practices in ways that could result in increased administrative costs and decreased profit margin. In addition, current requirements for student and school participation in Title IV Programs may change or one or more of the present Title IV Programs could be replaced by other programs with materially different student or school eligibility requirements. If we cannot comply with the provisions of the Higher Education Act, as they may be revised, or if the cost of such compliance is excessive, our revenues or profit margin could be adversely affected. Regulatory agencies or third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us. If the results of these reviews or claims are unfavorable, our future results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Because education is a highly regulated industry, a company we acquire may be subject to compliance reviews and claims of noncompliance and lawsuits by government agencies and third parties. If the results of these reviews or proceedings are unfavorable, or if we are unable to defend successfully against third-party lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, limitations on the operations of our business, loss of federal funding, injunctions or other penalties. Even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a third-party lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or defend those lawsuits or claims. -23- If our target business is unable to respond to the technological, legal, financial or other changes in the education industry and changes in our customers’ requirements and preferences, we will not be able to effectively compete with our competitors. If our target business is unable, for technological, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner to changing market conditions, customer needs or regulatory requirements, it could lose customers. Changes in customer requirements and preferences, the introduction of new products and services embodying new technologies, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render the existing products of the company we acquire obsolete. The success of our target business will depend, in part, on its ability to: · Enhance products and services; · Anticipate changing customer requirements by designing, developing and launching new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of customers; · Respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; and · Respond to changing regulatory requirements in a cost effective and timely manner. The development of additional products and services involves significant technological and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead time. We cannot assure you, even if our target business is able to introduce new products or adapt our products to new technologies, its products would gain acceptance among its customers. We may be unable to protect or enforce the intellectual property rights of any target businesses we acquire. We may acquire a target business whose business is dependent upon its proprietary technology and intellectual property. Accordingly, the protection of trademarks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets may be critical to the ability of our target business to compete with its competitors. In such a case, our target business will likely rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect any proprietary technology and rights it may acquire. Despite the efforts of our target business to protect its proprietary technology and rights, our target business may not be able to prevent misappropriation of its proprietary rights, disclosure of such rights to government entities in connection with performing work for them or deter independent development of technologies that compete with the business we acquire. Competitors may file patent applications or obtain patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with patents of any company we acquire. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce intellectual property rights, to protect trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. It is also possible third parties may claim our target business has infringed their patent, trademark, copyright or other proprietary rights. Claims or litigation, with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the competitive position and business of our target business. Depending on the target business or businesses we acquire, we may have to protect trademarks, patents and domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful in every location. With respect to certain proprietary rights, such as trademarks and copyrighted materials, of the target business or businesses we will acquire, the target business or businesses may have entered into license agreements in the past and will continue to enter into such agreements in the future. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of such target business or businesses’ proprietary rights or cause harm to such target business or businesses’ reputation. -24- Our target business may regularly employ subcontractors to assist in satisfying its contractual obligations. If these subcontractors fail to adequately perform their contractual obligations, our target business’s prime contract performance and its ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely impacted. The performance by our target business of government contracts may involve the issuance of subcontracts to other companies upon which our target business may rely to perform all or a portion of the work it is obligated to deliver to customers. There is a risk our target business may have disputes with subcontractors concerning a number of issues including the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor. A failure by one or more subcontractors to satisfactorily deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact the ability of our target business to perform its obligations as a prime contractor. In extreme cases, such subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in the government terminating our target’s contract for default. A default termination could expose our target business to liability for excess costs of reprocurement by the government and have a material adverse effect on the ability of our target business to compete for future contracts. Our ability to execute our business plan will depend, in part, on our ability to respond to constantly changing trends and consumer demands. Our ability to execute our business plan will depend, in part, on our ability to originate and define products and trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our products and services will need to appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We cannot assure you we will be able to develop appealing products or have the ability to meet constantly changing consumer demands in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you any new products we introduce will be accepted by consumers. Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and trends could adversely affect acceptance of our products and services. Failure to establish and operate additional schools or campuses or effectively identify suitable expansion opportunities could reduce our ability to implement our growth strategy. In the event we acquire a company with on-ground schools, as part of our business strategy we may open and operate new schools or campuses following consummation of the business combination. Establishing new schools or campuses poses unique challenges and requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses and devote other resources that are different, and in some cases greater, than those required with respect to the operation of acquired schools. To open a new school or campus, we would be required to obtain appropriate state and accrediting commission approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible for federal Title IV Program funding, a new school or campus would have to be certified by the DOE and would require federal authorization and approvals. In the case of entirely separate, freestanding U.S. schools, a minimum of two years' operating history is required to be eligible for Title IV Program funding. We cannot be sure we will be able to identify suitable expansion opportunities or that we will be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate any new schools or campuses. A failure to effectively identify suitable expansion opportunities and establish and manage the operations of newly established schools or online offerings could slow our growth and make any newly established schools or online programs unprofitable or more costly to operate than we had planned. Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs in a cost-effective manner and on a timely basis. Prospective employers demand that employees possess appropriate technological skills. These skills are becoming more sophisticated in line with technological advancements across all industries. Accordingly, educational programs must keep pace with those technological advancements. The expansion of our existing programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by our students, prospective employers or the education market. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as our competitors or as quickly as employers demand. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to financial constraints, unusually rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired, our placement rates could suffer and our revenues could be adversely affected. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain the personnel needed to sustain and grow our business. The success of any business we acquire will depend largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers who generally have significant experience within the education industry. Our success also depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school directors, administrators and corporate management. Due to the nature of the business, we expect to face significant competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave and subsequently compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have an adverse effect on our ability to operate our business efficiently and execute our growth strategy. -25- If we are unable to hire, retain and continue to develop and train our employees responsible for student recruitment, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected. In order to support revenue growth, we need to hire new employees dedicated to student recruitment and retain and continue to develop and train our current student recruitment personnel. Our ability to develop a strong student recruiting team may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to integrate and motivate our student recruiters; our ability to effectively train our student recruiters; the length of time it takes new student recruiters to become productive; regulatory restrictions on the method of compensating student recruiters; the competition in hiring and retaining student recruiters; and our ability to effectively manage a multi-location educational organization. If we are unable to hire, develop or retain our student recruiters, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected. Competition could decrease our market share and cause us to lower our tuition rates. The education market is highly competitive, as we expect to compete for students and faculty with colleges and universities and proprietary schools, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we expect to have, which may, among other things, allow our competitors to secure strategic relationships with some or all of our existing strategic partners or develop other high profile strategic relationships or devote more resources to expanding their programs and their school network, all of which could affect the success of our marketing programs. If we are unable to compete effectively for students, our student enrollments and revenues will be adversely affected. We may be required to reduce tuition or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract students or pursue new market opportunities. As a result, our market share, revenues and operating margin may be decreased. We cannot be sure we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not adversely affect our revenues and profitability. An institution would lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if its former students defaulted on repayment of their federal student loans in excess of specified levels, which could reduce its student population and revenues. An institution of higher education loses its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV Programs if its former students default on the repayment of their federal student loans in excess of specified levels. If any institution we acquire exceeds the official student loan default rates published by the DOE, it will lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. That loss would adversely affect students' access to various government-sponsored student financial aid programs, which could reduce its student population and revenues. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students. Interest rates have reached historic lows in recent years, creating a favorable borrowing environment for students. Much of the financing students receive is tied to floating interest rates. However, interest rates have increased recently, resulting in a corresponding increase in the cost to students of financing their education. Higher interest rates can also contribute to higher default rates with respect to student repayment of education loans. Higher default rates may in turn adversely impact eligibility for Title IV Program participation or the willingness of private lenders to make private loan programs available to students who attend any schools we may acquire, which could result in a reduction in student population. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations governing education activities could result in financial penalties and other costs which could adversely impact results of operations. On-ground schools use hazardous materials and generate small quantities of waste, such as used oil, antifreeze, paint and car batteries. As a result, schools are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and waste, and the clean-up of contamination at on-site or off-site locations to which hazardous waste is sent for disposal. In the event of non-compliance with any of these laws and regulations, or any on-ground school we acquire or establish, is responsible for a spill or release of hazardous materials, we could incur significant costs for clean-up, damages, and fines or penalties which could adversely impact our results of operations. -26- The number of lenders and financial institutions that make federally guaranteed student loans and that guarantee Title IV loans is relatively small. The loss of any of these lenders or guarantors could cause a material adverse effect on revenues. While we believe the lenders would be willing to make federally guaranteed student loans to students if loans were no longer available from current lenders, we cannot assure you there are other lenders who would make federally guaranteed loans to students. If such alternative lenders were not forthcoming, enrollment and our results of operations and future operating prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 