ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We face a variety of significant and diverse risks, many of which are inherent in our business. Described below are the risks that we currently believe could materially affect us. The occurrence of any of the risks discussed below could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Risks Related to Our Business If our investment strategies perform poorly, we could lose clients or suffer a decline in AUM which would impair our revenues and earnings. The performance of our investment strategies is one of the most important factors in retaining clients and AUM, and competing for new business. If our investment strategies perform poorly, it could impair our earnings because: • our existing clients might withdraw their funds from our investment strategies, which would cause the level of our advisory fees to decline; • the level of the performance-based fees paid by certain of our clients, which provides us with a percentage of returns if our investment strategies outperform certain agreed upon benchmarks, would decline; • third-party financial intermediaries, advisers or consultants may rate our investment products poorly, which may lead our existing clients to withdraw funds from our investment strategies or to the reduction of asset inflows from these third parties or their clients; or • the mutual funds and other investment funds that we sub-advise may decide not to renew or to terminate the agreements pursuant to which we sub-advise them and we may not be able to replace these relationships. In 2011, our investment strategies underperformed their respective benchmarks, and, although each of our investment strategies outperformed their respective benchmarks in 2009, and most of our investment strategies outperformed their respective benchmarks in 2010, there can be no assurance that some or all of our strategies will not underperform their respective benchmarks in the future. For example, the annualized gross returns (which represents annualized returns prior to payment of advisory fees) of our Large Cap Value strategy (which represented approximately 37.0% of our AUM as of December 31, 2011) for the 1-year, 3-year, 5-year and since inception (October 2000) periods ended December 31, 2010 were (5.3)%, 15.1%, (5.7)%, and 3.7%, respectively. This compares to the returns of the Russell 1000® Value Index, the market index most commonly used by our clients to compare the performance of our Large Cap Value strategy, during the same periods of 0.4%, 11.6%, (2.6)%, and 3.2%, respectively. During periods of declining AUM and revenues, such as we experienced during the first quarter of 2009, and the last three quarters of 2011, there can be no assurance that we will be able to reduce our expenses at a commensurate rate, potentially leading to accelerated profitability declines. Additionally, given the nature of our business, there is a minimum expense base necessary to retain our employees and maintain our operations, and it may be difficult to reduce expenses beyond certain levels. The level of our AUM and revenue has fluctuated in the past and there can be no assurance that there will not be declines in our AUM, revenue and profitability in the future. We depend on the executive committee of our operating company and the loss of the services of any of them could have a material adverse effect on us. The success of our business largely depends on the participation of Richard S. Pzena, John P. Goetz, William L. Lipsey, Antonio DeSpirito, III, and Michael D. Peterson, our CEO, two Presidents, and two Executive Vice Presidents, respectively. Their professional reputations, expertise in investing and relationships with our clients and within the investing community in the U.S. and abroad, are critical elements to executing our business strategy and attracting and retaining clients. Accordingly, the retention of these individuals is 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS crucial to our future success. There is no guarantee that they will not resign, join our competitors or form a competing company. The terms of the current operating agreement of our operating company restrict each of these individuals from competing with us or soliciting our clients or other employees during the term of their employment with us and for a certain period thereafter. The penalty for breach of these restrictive covenants will be the forfeiture of a number of Class B units held by the individual and his permitted transferees as of the earlier of the date of his breach or the termination of his employment, unless our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, determines otherwise. Although we may also seek specific performance of these restrictive covenants, there can be no assurance that we would be successful in obtaining this relief. Further, after this post-employment restrictive period, we will not be able to prohibit them from competing with us or soliciting our clients or employees. If any of these individuals were to join a competitor or form a competing company, some of our current clients or other prominent members of the investing community could choose to invest with that competitor rather than us. Furthermore, we do not carry any “key man” insurance that would provide us with proceeds in the event of the death or disability of any of these individuals. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business and could impact our future performance. Our relationships with two clients represent a significant source of our AUM and revenues, and the termination of one or both of these relationships would impair our revenues and earnings. As of December 31, 2011, two client relationships represented 13.3% and 11.9%, respectively, of our AUM. For the year ended December 31, 2011, these relationships represented 7.4% and 7.7%, respectively, of our total revenues. No other single account represented more than 5% of our AUM as of December 31, 2011, or more than 5% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. There can be no assurance that our agreements with respect to these two client relationships will remain in place. The termination of either relationship would significantly reduce our revenues and earnings, and we may not be able to establish relationships with other accounts in order to replace the lost revenues and earnings. Because our clients can reduce the amount of assets we manage for them, or terminate our agreements with them, on short notice, we may experience unexpected declines in revenue and profitability. Our investment advisory and sub-investment advisory agreements are generally terminable upon short notice. Our sub-investment advisory agreements with thirteen SEC-registered mutual funds each have an initial two-year term and are subject to annual renewal by each fund’s board of directors pursuant to the Investment Company Act. Eight of these thirteen sub-investment advisory agreements, including our largest sub-advised relationship, are beyond their initial two-year term, as of December 31, 2011. Institutional and individual clients, and the funds with which we have sub-investment advisory agreements, can terminate their relationships with us, or reduce the aggregate amount of AUM, for a number of reasons, including investment performance; changes in prevailing interest rates; changes in asset class preference; and financial market performance; or to shift their funds to competitors who may charge lower advisory fee rates; or for no stated reason. Poor performance relative to that of other investment management firms tends to result in decreased investments in our investment strategies, increased withdrawals from our investment strategies and the loss of institutional or individual accounts or sub-investment advisory relationships. In addition, the ability to terminate relationships may allow clients to renegotiate for lower fees paid for asset management services. If our investment advisory agreements are terminated, or our clients reduce the amount of AUM, either of which may occur on short notice, we may experience declines in revenue and profitability. Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our business by reducing the market value of the assets we manage or causing our clients to withdraw funds. Our business would be expected to generate lower revenue in a declining stock market or general economic downturn. Under our advisory fee arrangements, the fees we receive typically are based on the market value of our AUM. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities held in our clients’ portfolios would be expected to cause our revenue and profitability to decline by: 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS • causing the value of our AUM to decline, which would result in lower advisory fees; or • causing some of our clients to withdraw funds from our investment strategies in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk, which also would result in lower advisory fees. Although we experienced growth in AUM and revenues from the quarter ended March 31, 2009 through the quarter ended March 31, 2011, we experienced declines in AUM during the first quarter of 2009 and the last three quarters of 2011, and there can be no assurance that there will not be declines in our AUM, revenue and profitability in the future. Volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets and adverse changes in the global economy may negatively impact our AUM, revenues and profitability. As a company that operates in both U.S. and non-U.S. markets, and with a global client base, our business is subject to changing conditions in the global financial markets, and may also be affected by worldwide political, social and economic conditions in general. Beginning in the second half of 2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008 through early 2009, the financial markets were characterized by unprecedented levels of volatility and limited liquidity. This materially and adversely affected the capital and credit markets and led to a widespread loss of investor confidence. While investor confidence showed some stabilization and improvement during the second half of 2009 through 2010, 2011 was met with continued uncertainty and instability of global markets driven by unemployment, housing and credit concerns, the European debt crisis and the downgrade of long-term sovereign debt of the United States. There has been hesitation among investors to increase allocations to public equity investments, and alternative asset classes have been more highly favored by many of investors. As a result, we have and could in the future be confronted with net outflows of AUM, and could experience difficulties attracting new clients, resulting in a material adverse effect on our AUM, revenue and profitability in the future. As indicated above, we experienced declines in AUM during the first quarter of 2009 and for the last three quarters of 2011, largely due to the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets. During these periods, we experienced declines in revenue and profitability, and there can be no assurance that there will not be declines in our AUM, revenue and profitability should volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets continue in the future. Our ability to retain our senior investment professionals and attract additional qualified investment professionals is critical to our success. A decline in our revenues and profitability may have an adverse effect on our business and our ability to attract and retain employees. Our success depends on our ability to retain the senior members of our investment team and to recruit additional qualified investment professionals. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to retain them, as the market for investment professionals is extremely competitive. Our portfolio managers possess substantial experience and expertise in investing and, in particular, our classic value investment approach, which requires significant qualitative judgments as to the future earnings power of currently underperforming businesses. Our portfolio managers also have significant relationships with our clients. Accordingly, the loss of any of our senior investment professionals could limit our ability to successfully execute our classic value investment approach and, therefore, sustain the performance of our investment strategies, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Future growth of our business may be difficult to achieve, and may place significant demands on our resources and employees, and may increase our expenses. Future growth of our business may be difficult to achieve, and may place significant demands on our infrastructure and our investment team and other employees, and may increase our expenses. In addition, we are required to continuously develop our infrastructure in response to the increasing sophistication of the investment management market, as well as due to legal and regulatory developments. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Although most of our investment strategies outperformed their respective benchmarks in 2009 and 2010, they underperformed their respective benchmarks in 2011. Continued future growth may be challenging, as our underperformance in 2011 may impact our ability to attract inflows of AUM. Additionally, the current overall market environment may impact potential investors’ interest in committing new capital to equity strategies such as those offered by us, thereby making growth more difficult. The future growth of our business, if achieved, will depend, among other things, on our ability to maintain an infrastructure and staffing levels sufficient to address its growth, and may require us to incur significant additional expenses and commit additional senior management and operational resources. We may face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and operational controls, implementing new or updated information and financial systems and procedures and training, managing and appropriately sizing our work force and other components of our business on a timely and cost-effective basis. In addition, our efforts to retain or attract qualified investment professionals may result in significant additional expenses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage the growth of our business effectively, or that we will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses. The investment management business is intensely competitive. Competition in the investment management business is based on a variety of factors, including: • investment performance; • investor perception of an investment manager’s drive, focus and alignment of interest with them; • quality of service provided to, and duration of relationships with, clients; • business reputation; and • level of fees charged for services. We compete in all aspects of our business with a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, broker-dealers, insurance companies and other financial institutions. Our competitive risks are heightened by the fact that some of our competitors may invest according to different investment styles or in alternative asset classes which the markets may perceive as more attractive than our investment approach in the public equity markets. If we are unable to compete effectively, our revenues and earnings could be reduced, and our business could be materially adversely affected. In recent years, in response to market pressures, there has been a trend towards lower fees in the asset management industry and no assurances can be given that we will be able to maintain our current fee structure. Additionally, a shift in the mix in our AUM from higher revenue-generating AUM to lower revenue-generating AUM may result in a decrease in revenues, even if our aggregate level of AUM remains unchanged or increases. We may enter into more performance-based fee arrangements with our clients in the future, which could cause greater fluctuations in our revenues. A small portion of our investment advisory revenue is currently derived from performance fees. We generally earn performance fees under certain client agreements according to the performance in the accounts relative to a certain agreed-upon benchmark, which results in a lower base fee, but allows for us to earn higher fees if the relevant investment strategy outperforms the agreed-upon benchmark. In addition, some performance-based fee arrangements include high-water mark provisions, which generally provide that if a client account underperforms relative to its performance target, it must gain back such underperformance before we can collect future performance-based fees. Therefore, if we fail to achieve the performance target for a particular period, we will not earn a performance fee for that period and, for accounts with a high-water mark provision, our ability to earn future performance fees may be impaired. During fiscal years 2011 and 2010, we earned $3.8 million and $0.5 million in performance fees, respectively. We did not earn performance 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS fees during fiscal year 2009. Performance fees may become more common in our industry. An increase in performance fees, or in performance-based fee arrangements with clients, could create greater fluctuations in our revenues. Reductions in business sourced through consultants, or their poor reviews of us or our products, could materially reduce our revenues and ability to attract new clients. New accounts sourced through consultant-led searches have been a large driver of our inflows in the past, and are expected to be a major component of our future inflows. In addition, we have established relationships with certain mutual fund providers who have offered us opportunities to access certain market segments through sub-investment advisory roles. We have also accessed the high net worth segment of the investing community through relationships with well-respected wealth advisers who utilize our investment strategies in investment programs they construct for their clients. If we fail to successfully maintain these third-party distribution and sub-investment advisory relationships, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, many of these parties review and evaluate our products and our organization. Poor reviews or evaluations of either the particular product, or of us, may result in client withdrawals or may impact our ability to attract new assets through such intermediaries. A change of control of us could result in termination of our sub-investment advisory and investment advisory agreements. Pursuant to the Investment Company Act, each of the sub-investment advisory agreements for the SEC-registered mutual funds that we sub-advise automatically terminates upon its deemed “assignment” and a fund’s board and shareholders must approve a new agreement in order for us to continue to act as its sub-investment adviser. In addition, pursuant to the Investment Advisers Act, each of our investment advisory agreements for the separate accounts we manage may not be “assigned” without the consent of the client. A sale of a controlling block of our voting securities and certain other transactions would be deemed an “assignment” pursuant to both the Investment Company Act and the Investment Advisers Act. Such an assignment may be deemed to occur in the event that the holders of the Class B units of our operating company exchange enough of their Class B units for shares of our Class A common stock such that they no longer own a controlling interest in us. If such a deemed assignment occurs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary consents from clients whose funds are managed pursuant to separate accounts or the necessary approvals from the boards and shareholders of the SEC-registered funds that we sub-advise. An assignment, actual or constructive, would trigger these termination and consent provisions and, unless the necessary approvals and consents are obtained, could adversely affect our ability to continue managing client accounts, resulting in the loss of AUM and a corresponding loss of revenue. Our failure to comply with guidelines set by our clients could result in damage awards against us and a loss of AUM, either of which would cause our earnings to decline or affect our ability to remain in business. As an investment adviser, we have a fiduciary duty to our clients. When clients retain us to manage assets on their behalf, they may specify certain guidelines regarding investment allocation and strategy that we are required to observe in the management of their portfolios. Our failure to comply with these guidelines and other limitations could result in losses to a client account that the client could seek to recover from us, and could result in the client withdrawing its assets from our management or terminating our investment advisory agreement with them. Any of these events could cause our earnings to decline or affect our ability to remain in business. Extensive regulation of our business limits our activities and exposes us to the potential for significant penalties, including fines or limitations on our ability to conduct our business. We are subject to extensive regulation of our investment management business and operations. As a registered investment adviser, the SEC oversees our activities pursuant to its regulatory authority under the Investment Advisers Act. In addition, we must comply with certain requirements under the Investment Company Act with respect to the SEC-registered funds for which we act as sub-investment adviser. We are 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS also subject to regulation by the Department of Labor under ERISA. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of financial services, including the authority to grant, and, in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular businesses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as an investment adviser. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation, result in withdrawal by our clients from our investment strategies, and impede our ability to retain clients and develop new client relationships, which may reduce our revenues. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. Among other things, we could be fined or be prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities. The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us, and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to modifications and further regulation. New laws or regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations, applicable to us and our clients also may adversely affect our business, and our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and react to these changes. Specific regulatory changes also may have a direct impact on our revenue. In addition to regulatory scrutiny and potential fines and sanctions, regulators continue to examine different aspects of the asset management industry. These regulatory changes and other proposed or potential changes may result in a reduction of revenue associated with these activities. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to income as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. and various non-U.S. jurisdictions. We are also subject to potential tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these potential audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these potential audits, and the actual outcomes of these potential audits could have a material impact on our net income or financial condition. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. corporate tax reform, if enacted, could change the amount of taxes we are required to pay and have a significant impact on our future results of operations, profitability and financial condition. We face risks, and corresponding potential costs and expenses, associated with conducting operations and growing our business in numerous countries. We offer investment management services in many different regulatory jurisdictions around the world, and intend to continue to expand our operations internationally. As we do so, we will continue to face challenges in the adequacy of our resources, procedures and controls to consistently and effectively operate our business. In order to remain competitive, we must be proactive and prepared to deploy necessary resources when growth opportunities present themselves. We face a heightened risk that the necessary resources and/or personnel will be unavailable to take full advantage of strategic opportunities when they appear, or that strategic decisions can be efficiently implemented. Local regulatory environments may vary widely, as may the adequacy and sophistication of each. Local requirements or needs may also place additional demands on sales and compliance personnel and resources, such as meeting local cultural requirements and complying with local industry standards. Finding and hiring additional, well-qualified personnel and crafting and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements remain a challenge as we expand our operations internationally. Moreover, regulators in non-U.S. jurisdictions 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to offer our investment products in their respective markets. Any of these local requirements, activities, or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. Operational risks, including any significant limitation, failure or security breach of our software applications, technology or other systems critical to our operations, may disrupt our business, result in losses, or limit our growth. We rely heavily on our financial, accounting, trading, compliance and other data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these systems, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, act of terrorism or war, security breach or otherwise, could result in a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage, and thus materially adversely affect our business. Although we have back-up systems in place and have taken other protective measures, our back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of a failure or interruption may not be adequate and our technology system may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact. The potential inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions also could constrain our ability to expand our businesses. In recent years, we have substantially upgraded and expanded the capabilities of our data processing systems and other operating technology, and we expect that we will need to continue to upgrade and expand these capabilities in the future to avoid disruption of, or constraints on, our operations. Furthermore, we depend on our headquarters in New York City for the continued operation of our business. A disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business, or directly affecting our headquarters, may have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. Although we have disaster recovery programs in place, there can be no assurance that these will be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses. The investment management industry faces substantial litigation risks which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us. We depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, such dissatisfaction may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses. We make investment decisions on behalf of our clients which could result in substantial losses to them. In order for our classic value investment strategies to yield attractive returns, we expect to have to hold securities for multi-year periods and, therefore, our investment strategies may not perform well in the short-term. If our clients suffer significant losses, or are otherwise dissatisfied with our services, we could be subject to the risk of legal liabilities or actions alleging negligent misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty, or breach of contract. These risks are often difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. We may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause significant reputational harm to us. For information on our legal proceedings, see “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” Fulfilling our public company financial reporting and other regulatory obligations has been and will be expensive and time consuming. As a public company, we are required to implement specific corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley” or “SOX”), the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (“Dodd-Frank Act”), and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”). Compliance with these requirements has caused and will cause us to continue to incur significant legal and accounting compliance costs, and place significant demands on our accounting and finance staff, and on our accounting, financial and information systems. We have hired, and may need 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS to further hire, additional accounting and finance staff with appropriate public company financial reporting experience and technical accounting knowledge, which has and may continue to increase our compensation expense. Our management is required to conduct an annual assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and include a report on our internal controls in our annual reports on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 404 of SOX. In addition, we are required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We will continue to incur costs in order to maintain our internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404 of SOX, including necessary auditing and legal fees, and costs associated with accounting, internal audit, information technology, compliance and administrative staff. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, this could lead to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, thus adversely affecting the value of our common stock. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us. However, compliance with this new law and its implementing regulations is expected to result in additional operating costs, and to make certain activities more time consuming and costly, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain changes in accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC or other standard-setting bodies could have a material impact on our financial position or results of our operations. We are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”), which are periodically revised and/or expanded. As such, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting and/or financial reporting standards issued by recognized accounting standard setters or regulators, such as the FASB and the SEC. In 2010, the SEC published a statement of continued support for a single set of high-quality global accounting standards and acknowledged that the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) was best positioned to serve that role. In 2011, the SEC staff released a paper discussing a potential transition method to incorporate IFRS into the financial reporting system for U.S. public companies. While timelines remain uncertain regarding the near-term use of IFRS in the United States, it is possible that future reporting standards issued by the proposed implementation of IFRS could change our current application of GAAP, resulting in a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. The historical consolidated financial information included in this Annual Report and our previously filed public company reports may not necessarily be indicative of our future financial results. The historical consolidated financial information included in this Annual Report and our previously filed public company reports may not necessarily be indicative of our future financial results. There can be no assurance that our AUM and revenue will grow at the same rate as they grew from the quarter ended June 30, 2009 through the quarter ended March 31, 2011. As mentioned above, we experienced declines in AUM, revenue, and profitability during the first quarter of 2009 and for the last three quarters of 2011, and there can be no assurance that there will not be similar, or more severe, declines in our AUM, revenue and profitability in the future. Although all of our strategies are currently open and available to new investments, we may close certain or all of our strategies in the future at any time. See “Part 2, Item 6 — Selected Financial Data” and the historical financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Our Investment Strategies Our results of operations depend on the performance of our investment strategies. Poor performance of our investment strategies will reduce or minimize the value of our assets under management, on which our advisory fees are based. Since advisory fees comprise all of our operating revenues, poor performance of our investment strategies will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, poor performance will make it difficult for us to retain or attract clients and to grow our business. Our investment strategies are subject to some or all of the following risks. Our classic value investments subject the performance of our investment strategies to the risk that the companies in which we invest may not achieve the level of earnings recovery that we initially expect, or at all. We generally invest in companies after they have experienced a shortfall in their historic earnings, due to an adverse business development, management error, accounting scandal or other disruption, and before there is clear evidence of earnings recovery or business momentum. While very few investors are willing to invest when companies lack earnings visibility, our classic value investment approach seeks to capture the return that can be obtained by investing in a company before the market has a level of confidence in its ability to achieve earnings recovery. However, our investment approach entails the risk that the companies included in our portfolios are not able to execute the turnaround that we had expected when we originally invested in them, thereby reducing the performance of our strategies. Since our positions in these investments are often substantial, there is the risk that we may be unable to find willing purchasers for our investments when we decide to sell them. Most of our strategies construct concentrated portfolios, generally ranging from 30 to 60 holdings, of companies underperforming their historical earnings power, which is subject to a higher risk of underperformance relative to benchmarks than the investment approaches of some of our competitors. Since we apply the same investment process across all of our investment strategies, utilizing one team, and given the overlapping universes of many of our investment strategies, we could have common positions and industry or sector concentrations across many of our investment strategies at the same time. As such, factors leading one of our investment strategies to underperform may lead other strategies to underperform simultaneously. Our investment strategies may not obtain attractive returns in certain periods or during certain market conditions. Our products are best suited for investors with long-term investment horizons. In order for our classic value investment approach to yield attractive returns, we must typically hold securities for an average of over three years. Our investment strategies may not perform well during certain periods of time. In addition, our strategies may not perform well during points in the economic cycle when value-oriented stocks are relatively less attractive. For instance, during the late stages of an economic cycle, investors may purchase relatively expensive stocks in order to obtain access to above average growth, as was the case in the late 1990s. Value-oriented strategies may also experience weakness during periods when the markets are focused on one investment thesis or sector. In 2011, our investment strategies underperformed their respective benchmarks, and there can be no assurance that such underperformance will not occur in future periods. Our investment approach may underperform other investment approaches, which may result in significant withdrawals of client assets or client departures or a reduction in our AUM. Even when securities prices are rising generally, portfolio performance can be affected by our investment approach. We employ a classic value investment approach in all of our investment strategies. This investment approach has outperformed the market in some economic and market environments and underperformed it in others. In particular, a prolonged period in which the growth style of investing outperforms the value style may cause our investment strategy to go out of favor with some clients, consultants or third-party intermediaries. Our investment strategy may be less favored during certain time periods for other reasons as well, including due to perceived riskiness or volatility of our approach. Poor performance relative to peers, coupled with changes in personnel, extensive periods in particular market environments, or other difficulties may result in significant withdrawals of client assets, client departures or a reduction in our AUM. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS Market environments may negatively affect the companies in which we invest. The disruption in the global credit markets and the deterioration of the economy and the financial markets beginning in the second half of 2007, and continuing through early 2009, created difficult conditions for most companies, including many of those in which we invest. Although global market conditions showed some stabilization and improvement during 2010, capital and credit markets continued to experience uncertainty and instability throughout 2011, driven by unemployment, housing and credit concerns, the European debt crisis and the downgrade of long-term US sovereign debt. The environment that the United States and the world faced as a result of these factors had the effect of pushing the prices of equity securities in which we invest lower than their historical levels. In addition, the market environment had the effect of reducing the funds available to our clients to invest. There can be no assurance that both of these trends will not continue to impact our AUM, which is the main driver of our revenues and profitability. Our investment process requires us to conduct extensive fundamental research on any company before investing in it, which may result in missed investment opportunities and reduce the performance of our investment strategies. We take a considerable amount of time to complete the in-depth research projects that our investment process requires before adding any security to our portfolio. Our process requires that we take this time in order to understand the company and the business well enough to make an informed decision as to whether we are willing to own a significant position in a company whose current earnings are below its historic norms and that does not yet have earnings visibility. However, the time we take to make this judgment may cause us to miss the opportunity to invest in a company that has a sharp and rapid earnings recovery. Any such missed investment opportunities could adversely impact the performance of our investment strategies. Our Global Value, EAFE Value, Global Diversified Value, EAFE Diversified Value, European Value and Emerging Markets Value strategies consist primarily of investments in the securities of issuers located outside of the United States, which may involve foreign currency exchange, political, social and economic uncertainties and risks. Our Global Value, EAFE Value, Global Diversified Value, EAFE Diversified Value, European Value and Emerging Markets Value strategies, which together represented $5.6 billion, $5.5 billion, and $4.7 billion of our AUM as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and may comprise a larger portion of our AUM in the future, are primarily invested in securities of companies located outside the United States. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact the portfolios of our clients who are invested in these strategies. In addition, foreign currency fluctuations may affect the levels of our AUM from one reporting period to another. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to non-U.S. currencies may result in a decrease in the dollar value of our AUM, which, in turn, would result in lower U.S. dollar denominated revenue. We do not currently engage in any hedging activities for these portfolios and continue to market these products as unhedged. Investments in non-U.S. issuers may also be affected by political, social and economic uncertainty affecting a country or region in which we are invested, such as the European debt crisis in 2011. Many non-U.S. financial markets are not as developed, or as efficient, as the U.S. financial market, and, as a result, liquidity may be reduced and price volatility may be higher. The legal and regulatory environments, including financial accounting standards and practices, may also be different, and there may be less publicly available information in respect of such companies. These risks could adversely impact the performance of our strategies that are invested in securities of non-U.S. issuers. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Our Structure We are dependent upon distributions from our operating company to make distributions to our Class A stockholders, and to pay taxes and other expenses. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our ownership of membership units of our operating company. We have no independent means of generating revenue and cash flow. Our operating company is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, is not itself subject to U.S. federal income tax. Instead, its taxable income is allocated to its members, including us, pro-rata according to the number of membership units each owns. Accordingly, we incur income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of our operating company. We also incur expenses related to our operations. We intend to cause our operating company to distribute cash to its members in an amount at least equal to that necessary to cover their tax liabilities, if any, with respect to the earnings of our operating company. To the extent that we need funds to pay our tax or other liabilities or to fund our operations, and our operating company is restricted from making distributions to us under applicable laws or regulations, or contractual restrictions, or does not have sufficient earnings to make these distributions, we may have to borrow funds to meet these obligations and run our business and, thus, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that funds will be available to borrow under such circumstances on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We are required to pay certain former and current members of our operating company who sold to us membership units of our operating company in October 2007, and the other holders of Class B units of our operating company who subsequently have and will exchange their Class B units for shares of our Class A common stock, most of the tax benefit of any amortization deductions we may claim as a result of the tax basis step up we receive in connection with these sales of membership units and any future exchanges of Class B units. We used the net proceeds of our October 2007 initial public offering to purchase membership units of our operating company from three of its members, or the selling members. These purchases have and are expected to continue to result in increases in our share of the tax basis in the tangible and intangible assets of our operating company that otherwise would not have been available. Subsequent and future exchanges of Class B units of our operating company for shares of our Class A common stock have and are expected to continue to result in increases in our share of the tax basis in the tangible and intangible assets of our operating company that otherwise would not have been available. These increases in tax basis have and are expected to continue to reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, might challenge all or part of this tax basis increase, and a court might sustain such a challenge. Pursuant to a tax receivable agreement dated October 30, 2007, among the selling members, all holders of Class B units after our October 2007 initial public offering and us, we are required to pay the selling members, and any holders of Class B units who elect to exchange their Class B units for shares of our Class A common stock, 85% of the amount of the cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that we realize as a result of the increases in amortizable tax basis due to the sale to us of membership units in October 2007 and the subsequent and future exchanges of Class B units for shares of our Class A common stock. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of our income, and the tax rates then applicable. Payments under the tax receivable agreement are expected to give rise to certain additional tax benefits attributable to further increases in basis. Any such benefits are covered by the tax receivable agreement and will increase the amounts due thereunder. We expect that, as a result of the size and increases in our share of the tax basis in the tangible and intangible assets of our operating company attributable to our interest therein, the payments that we may make to these members likely will be substantial. In October 2008, each of the selling members agreed with us to waive any payments that we were required to make to them with respect to the 2008 and 2009 tax years, as a result of their sale to us of an aggregate of 6.1 million membership units in October 2007. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 9 — Income Taxes.” 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we exercise our right to terminate the tax receivable agreement early, we will be obligated to make an early termination payment to the selling and converting shareholders, based upon the net present value (based upon certain assumptions and deemed events set forth in the tax receivable agreement) of all payments that would be required to be paid by us under the tax receivable agreement. If certain change of control events were to occur, we would be obligated to make an early termination payment. Were the IRS to successfully challenge the tax basis increases described above, we would not be reimbursed for any payments made under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances, we could be required to make payments under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. If we are deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act, our business would be subject to applicable restrictions under that Act, which could make it impracticable for us to continue our business as contemplated. We believe our company is not an investment company under Section 3(b)(1) of the Investment Company Act because we are primarily engaged in a non-investment company business. We conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company. However, if we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders. The market price of our Class A common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume of our Class A common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our Class A common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares of our Class A common stock at or above your purchase price, if at all. We cannot assure you that the market price of our Class A common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our Class A common stock, or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Class A common stock, include: • decreases in our assets under management; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • failure to meet our earnings estimates; • publication of research reports about us or the investment management industry; • additions or departures of our key personnel; • adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; • actions by stockholders; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations, or differing interpretations thereof, affecting our business, or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; • adverse publicity about the asset management industry, generally, or individual scandals, specifically; and • general market and economic conditions. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline due to the large number of shares of our Class A common stock eligible for future sale upon the exchange of Class B units of our operating company. Pursuant to the operating agreement of our operating company, on at least one date designated by us each year, certain holders of Class B units may exchange up to 15% of their Class B units for an equivalent number of shares of our Class A common stock, subject to certain restrictions set forth in the operating agreement. Also, as of October 30, 2011, the fourth anniversary of our initial public offering, the non-employee members of our operating company may exchange all of their vested Class B units, in accordance with the timing restrictions set forth in the operating agreement. Pursuant to the resale and registration rights agreement, dated October 30, 2007, among the holders of Class B units and us, (i) on at least one date designated by us each year these holders may resell the shares of Class A common stock issued to them upon the exchange of up to 15% of their Class B units, or, in the case of non-employee members, all of their Class B units. We filed a Form S-3 registration statement, which became effective in February 2009, in order to register our issuance to these holders of 57,937,910 shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exchange of all Class B units outstanding immediately after the consummation of our operating company’s reorganization. On January 27, 2012, the SEC declared effective a subsequent registration statement on Form S-3 which registers the resale of 40,114,701 shares of our Class A common stock by the selling stockholders named therein. We designated March 28, 2011, September 15, 2011 and March 31, 2010 as the 2011and 2010 exchange dates, respectively. Certain executive officers and employees elected to exchange an aggregate of 536,528, 670,902 and 734,618, respectively, of their Class B units for an equivalent number of shares of our Class A common stock, which, with the exception of those held by our executive officers, are freely tradable. The market price 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales pursuant to the Form S-3 registration statements, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling equity securities in the future, at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Control by our Class B stockholders of 96.2% of the combined voting power of our common stock may give rise to conflicts of interest. Our Class B stockholders collectively hold approximately 96.2% of the combined voting power of our common stock. These stockholders consist of our six named executive officers, 26 of our other employees, certain other members of our operating company, including one of our directors and his related entities, and five former employees. Holders of shares of our Class B common stock have entered into a Class B Stockholders’ Agreement with respect to all shares of Class B common stock then held by them and any additional shares of Class B common stock they may acquire in the future. Pursuant to this agreement, they will vote these shares of Class B common stock together on all matters submitted to a vote of our common stockholders. To the extent that we cause our operating company to issue additional Class B units, which may be granted, subject to vesting, to our employees pursuant to the PIM LLC 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, these employees will be entitled to receive an equivalent number of shares of our Class B common stock, subject to the condition that they agree to enter into this Class B Stockholders’ Agreement. Each share of our Class B common stock entitles its holder to five votes per share for so long as the Class B stockholders collectively hold 20% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding. When a Class B unit is exchanged for a share of our Class A common stock, an unvested Class B unit is forfeited due to the employee holder’s failure to satisfy the conditions of the award agreement pursuant to which it was granted, or any Class B unit is forfeited as a result of a breach of any restrictive covenants contained in our operating company’s amended and restated operating agreement, a corresponding share of our Class B common stock will automatically be redeemed by us. For so long as our Class B stockholders hold at least 20% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding, they will be able to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors and thereby control our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends. In addition, they will be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring approval of stockholders, and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our Company or a change in the composition of our Board of Directors, and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our Company. Our Class B stockholders have the ability to prevent the consummation of mergers, takeovers or other transactions that may be in the best interests of our Class A stockholders. In particular, this concentration of voting power could deprive Class A stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of Class A common stock as part of a sale of our company, and could ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a change of control that our stockholders may favor, which could also adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of our preferred stock and to designate the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of our preferred stock, each without any vote or action by our stockholders. We could issue a series of preferred stock to impede the consummation of a merger, tender offer or other takeover attempt. The anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may impede takeover attempts, or other transactions, that may be in the best interests of our stockholders and, in particular, our Class A stockholders. In addition, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected to the extent that provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws discourage potential takeover attempts, or other transactions, that our stockholders may favor. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our ability to pay dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and may be limited by our holding company structure and applicable provisions of Delaware law. We currently intend to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis. However, our Board of Directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends, or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, as a holding company, we depend upon the ability of Pzena Investment Management, LLC to generate earnings and cash flows and distribute them to us so that we may pay our obligations and expenses and pay dividends to our stockholders. We expect to cause Pzena Investment Management, LLC to make distributions to its members, including us. However, the ability of Pzena Investment Management, LLC to make such distributions is subject to its operating results, cash requirements and financial condition and applicable Delaware laws (which may limit the amount of funds available for distribution to its members), as well as any contractual restrictions. If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we are unable to generate sufficient distributions from our business, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our Class A common stock. Because of these various limitations and restrictions, we have, in the past, had to suspend our quarterly dividend payment. See “Item 5 — Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities — Our Dividend Policy.” The disparity in the voting rights among the classes of our common stock may have a potential adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock. Each share of our Class A common stock entitles its holder to one vote on all matters to be voted on by stockholders generally, while each share of our Class B common stock entitles its holder to five votes for so long as the number of shares of Class B common stock represents 20% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding. The difference in voting rights could adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock to the extent that investors view, or any potential future purchaser of our company views, the superior voting rights of the Class B common stock to have value. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 