ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face a variety of significant and diverse risks, many of which are inherent in our business. Described below are certain risks that we currently believe could materially affect us. Other risks and uncertainties that we do not presently consider to be material, or of which we are not presently aware, may become important factors that affect us in the future. The occurrence of any of the risks discussed below could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on Richard S. Pzena, John P. Goetz, A. Rama Krishna and William L. Lipsey and the loss of the services of any of them could have a material adverse effect on us. The success of our business depends on the participation of Richard S. Pzena, John P. Goetz, A. Rama Krishna and William L. Lipsey, whom we collectively refer to as our managing principals. Their professional reputations, expertise in investing and relationships with our clients and within the investing community in the U.S. and abroad, are critical elements to executing our business strategy and attracting and retaining clients. Accordingly, the retention of our managing principals is crucial to our future success. There is no guarantee that they will not resign, join our competitors or form a competing company. The terms of the amended and restated operating agreement of Pzena Investment Management, LLC restrict each of Messrs. Pzena, Goetz and Lipsey from competing with us or soliciting our clients or other employees during the term of their employment with us and for three years thereafter. Under the terms of his employment agreement, Mr. Krishna has agreed not to compete with us for a period of 18 months following (i) his notice of resignation, which must be given six months prior to the termination of his employment with us pursuant to his agreement, or (ii) the date of any other termination of his employment with us. The penalty for their breach of these restrictive covenants will be the forfeiture of a number of Class B units held by the managing principal that is equal to 50% of the number of membership units collectively held by the managing principal and his permitted transferees as of the earlier of the date of his breach or the termination of his employment, unless our board of directors, in its sole discretion, determines otherwise. Although we may also seek specific performance of these restrictive covenants, there can be no assurance that we would be successful in obtaining this relief. Further, after this post-employment restrictive period, we will not be able to prohibit them from competing with us or soliciting our clients or employees. If any of our managing principals were to join a competitor or form a competing company, some of our current clients or other prominent members of the investing community could choose to invest with that competitor rather than us. Furthermore, we do not intend to carry any "key man" insurance that would provide us with proceeds in the event of the death or disability of any of our managing principals. The loss of the services of any of our managing principals could have a material adverse effect on our business and could impact our future performance. If our investment strategies perform poorly, we could lose clients or suffer a decline in assets under management which would impair our earnings. The performance of our investment strategies is one of the most important factors in retaining clients and AUM and competing for new business. If our investment strategies perform poorly, it could impair our earnings because: •our existing clients might withdraw their funds from our investment strategies, which would cause the level of our advisory fees to decline; •the level of the performance-based fees paid by certain of our clients, which provides us with a percentage of returns if our investment strategies outperform certain agreed upon benchmarks, would decline; 18 •third-party financial intermediaries, advisers or consultants may rate our investment products poorly, which may lead our existing clients to withdraw funds from our investment strategies or to the reduction of asset inflows from these third parties or their clients; or •the mutual funds and other investment funds that we sub-advise may decide not to renew or to terminate the agreements pursuant to which we sub-advise them and we may not be able to replace these relationships. Our sub-investment advisory relationships with mutual funds advised by John Hancock Advisers represent a significant source of our revenues, and the termination of these relationships would impair our revenues and earnings. We currently act as a sub-investment adviser to the John Hancock Classic Value Fund, the John Hancock Classic Value Fund II, the John Hancock International Classic Value Fund and the John Hancock Classic Value Mega Cap Fund, each of which are SEC-registered mutual funds advised by John Hancock Advisers. Our sub-investment advisory relationships with these four mutual funds represented, in the aggregate, 26.3% of our AUM at December 31, 2007. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, 20%, 20% and 14%, respectively, of our total revenue was generated from these relationships. Our sub-investment advisory agreement with the John Hancock Classic Value Fund represented all, or substantially all, of this revenue during these periods. There can be no assurance that our agreements with respect to any of these four mutual funds will remain in place. In addition, these agreements would terminate automatically in the event that the investment management agreement between John Hancock Advisers and each individual fund is assigned or terminated. Such a termination of our sub-investment advisory agreements would significantly reduce our revenues and we may not be able to establish relationships with other mutual funds' investment advisers and/or significant institutional separate accounts in order to replace the lost revenues. Because our clients can reduce the amount of assets we manage for them, or terminate our agreements with them, on short notice, we may experience unexpected declines in revenue and profitability. Our investment advisory and sub-investment advisory agreements are generally terminable upon short notice. Our sub-investment advisory agreements with twelve SEC-registered mutual funds, such as the four mutual funds advised by John Hancock Advisers, each have an initial two-year term and are subject to annual renewal by the fund's board of directors pursuant to the Investment Company Act. Seven of these twelve sub-investment advisory agreements are beyond their initial two-year term, including the agreement for the John Hancock Classic Value Fund. Institutional and individual clients, and the funds with which we have sub-investment advisory agreements, can terminate their relationships with us, or reduce the aggregate amount of AUM, for a number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, and financial market performance, or to shift their funds to competitors who may charge lower advisory fee rates, or for no stated reason. Poor performance relative to that of other investment management firms tends to result in decreased investments in our investment strategies, increased withdrawals from our investment strategies and the loss of institutional or individual accounts or sub-investment advisory relationships. In addition, the ability to terminate relationships may allow clients to renegotiate for lower fees paid for asset management services. If our investment advisory agreements are terminated, or our clients reduce the amount of AUM, either of which may occur on short notice, we may experience declines in revenue and profitability. We experienced declines in AUM during the third and fourth quarters of 2007, as compared to the immediately preceding quarter, and declines in revenue and net income during the fourth quarter of 2007, as compared to the preceding quarter, and there can be no assurance that there will not be continued declines in our AUM, revenue and net income in the future. 19 Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our business by reducing the market value of the assets we manage or causing our clients to withdraw funds. Our business would be expected to generate lower revenue in a declining stock market or general economic downturn. Under our advisory fee arrangements, the fees we receive typically are based on the market value of our AUM. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities held in our clients' portfolios would be expected to cause our revenue and net income to decline by: •causing the value of our AUM to decline, which would result in lower advisory fees; or •causing some of our clients to withdraw funds from our investment strategies in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk, which also would result in lower advisory fees. We experienced declines in AUM during the third and fourth quarters of 2007, as compared to the immediately preceding quarter, and declines in revenue and net income during the fourth quarter of 2007, as compared to the preceding quarter. If there is a continued decline in our AUM and revenue without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income will be further reduced. Accordingly, difficult market conditions could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We may be required to make term loan amortization payments under our credit agreement, as amended, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. On July 23, 2007, we entered into a credit agreement, as amended, which requires us to amortize our term loan beginning in any period when assets under management are less than $20 billion and ending when assets under management are greater than $21.5 billion. See "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources." Our ability to retain our senior investment professionals and attract additional qualified investment professionals is critical to our success. Our success depends on our ability to retain the senior members of our investment team and to recruit additional qualified investment professionals. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to retain them, as the market for investment professionals is extremely competitive. Our portfolio managers possess substantial experience and expertise in investing and, in particular, our classic value investment approach, which requires significant qualitative judgments as to the future earnings power of currently underperforming businesses. Our portfolio managers also have significant relationships with our clients. Accordingly, the loss of any one of our senior investment professionals could limit our ability to successfully execute our classic value investment approach and, therefore, sustain the performance of our investment strategies, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Future growth of our business may be difficult to achieve, and may place significant demands on our resources and employees, and may increase our expenses. Future growth of our business may be difficult to achieve, and may place significant demands on our infrastructure, our investment team and other employees, and may increase our expenses. In addition, we are required to continuously develop our infrastructure in response to the increasing sophistication of the investment management market, as well as due to legal and regulatory developments. 20 The future growth of our business will depend, among other things, on our ability to maintain an infrastructure and staffing levels sufficient to address its growth and may require us to incur significant additional expenses and commit additional senior management and operational resources. We may face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and operational controls, implementing new or updated information and financial systems and procedures and training, managing and appropriately sizing our work force and other components of our business on a timely and cost-effective basis. In addition, our efforts to retain or attract qualified investment professionals may result in significant additional expenses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage the growth of our business effectively or that we will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses. The investment management business is intensely competitive. Competition in the investment management business is based on a variety of factors, including: •investment performance; •investor perception of an investment manager's drive, focus and alignment of interest with them; •quality of service provided to, and duration of relationships with, clients; •business reputation; and •level of fees charged for services. We compete in all aspects of our business with a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, broker-dealers, insurance companies and other financial institutions. Our competitive risks are heightened by the fact that some of our competitors may invest according to different investment styles or in alternative asset classes which the markets may perceive as more attractive than our investment approach in the public equity markets. If we are unable to compete effectively, our earnings and revenues could be reduced, and our business could be materially adversely affected. Reductions in business sourced through third-party distribution channels, or their poor reviews of us or our products, could materially reduce our revenue and ability to attract new clients. New accounts sourced through consultant-led searches have been a large driver of the growth of our AUM in the past and are expected to be a major component of our future growth. In addition, we have established relationships with certain mutual fund providers, most significantly John Hancock Advisers, who have offered us opportunities to access new market segments through sub-investment advisory roles. We have also accessed the high-net-worth segment of the investing community through relationships with well respected wealth advisers who utilize our investment strategies in investment programs they construct for their clients. If we fail to successfully maintain these third-party distribution and sub-investment advisory relationships, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, many of these parties review and evaluate our products and our organization. Poor reviews or evaluations of either the particular product or of us may result in client withdrawals or may impact our ability to attract new assets through such intermediaries. A change of control of us could result in termination of our sub-investment advisory and investment advisory agreements. Pursuant to the Investment Company Act, each of the sub-investment advisory agreements for the SEC-registered mutual funds that we sub-advise automatically terminates upon its deemed "assignment" and a fund's board and shareholders must approve a new agreement in order for us to continue to act as its sub-investment adviser. In addition, pursuant to the Investment Advisers Act, each of our investment advisory agreements for the separate accounts we manage may not be "assigned" without the consent of the client. A sale of a controlling block of our voting securities and 21 certain other transactions would be deemed an "assignment" pursuant to both the Investment Company Act and the Investment Advisers Act. Such an assignment may be deemed to occur in the event that the holders of the Class B units of Pzena Investment Management, LLC exchange enough of their Class B units for shares of our Class A common stock such that they no longer own a controlling interest in us. If such a deemed assignment occurs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary consents from clients whose funds are managed pursuant to separate accounts or the necessary approvals from the boards and shareholders of the SEC-registered funds that we sub-advise. An assignment, actual or constructive, would trigger these termination and consent provisions and, unless the necessary approvals and consents are obtained, could adversely affect our ability to continue managing client accounts, resulting in the loss of AUM and a corresponding loss of revenue. Our failure to comply with guidelines set by our clients could result in damage awards against us and a loss of AUM, either of which would cause our earnings to decline or affect our ability to remain in business. As an investment adviser, we have a fiduciary duty to our clients. When clients retain us to manage assets on their behalf, they may specify certain guidelines regarding investment allocation and strategy that we are required to observe in the management of their portfolios. Our failure to comply with these guidelines and other limitations could result in losses to a client account that the client could seek to recover from us and could result in the client withdrawing its assets from our management or terminating our investment advisory agreement with them. Any of these events could cause our earnings to decline or affect our ability to remain in business. Extensive regulation of our business limits our activities and exposes us to the potential for significant penalties, including fines or limitations on our ability to conduct our business. We are subject to extensive regulation of our investment management business and operations. As a registered investment adviser, the SEC oversees our activities pursuant to its regulatory authority under the Investment Advisers Act. In addition, we must comply with certain requirements under the Investment Company Act with respect to the SEC-registered funds for which we act as sub-investment adviser. We are also subject to regulation by the Department of Labor under ERISA. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of financial services, including the authority to grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular businesses. A failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Investment Advisers Act on investment advisers, including record-keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as an investment adviser. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation, result in withdrawal by our clients from our investment strategies and impede our ability to retain clients and develop new client relationships, which may reduce our revenues. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. Among other things, we could be fined or be prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities. The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us, and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to modifications and further regulation. New laws or regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations, 22 applicable to us and our clients also may adversely affect our business, and our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and react to these changes. For investment management firms in general, there have been a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries that focus on the mutual fund industry. These inquiries already have resulted in increased scrutiny in the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds and their investment managers. This regulatory scrutiny may limit our ability to engage in certain activities. Specific regulatory changes also may have a direct impact on our revenue. In addition to regulatory scrutiny and potential fines and sanctions, regulators continue to examine different aspects of the asset management industry. New regulation regarding the annual approval process for mutual fund sub-investment advisory agreements may result in the reduction of fees or possible terminations of these agreements. These regulatory changes and other proposed or potential changes may result in a reduction of revenue associated with these activities. Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in losses or limit our growth. We rely heavily on our financial, accounting, trading, compliance and other data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these systems, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise, could result in a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage, and thus materially adversely affect our business. Although we have back-up systems in place, our back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of a failure or interruption may not be adequate. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions also could constrain our ability to expand our businesses. In recent years, we have substantially upgraded and expanded the capabilities of our data processing systems and other operating technology, and we expect that we will need to continue to upgrade and expand these capabilities in the future to avoid disruption of, or constraints on, our operations. Furthermore, we depend on our headquarters in New York City for the continued operation of our business. A disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business, or directly affecting our headquarters, may have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. Although we have disaster recovery programs in place, there can be no assurance that these will be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses. The investment management industry faces substantial litigation risks which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us. We depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, such dissatisfaction may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses. We make investment decisions on behalf of our clients which could result in substantial losses to them. In order for our classic value investment strategies to yield attractive returns, we expect to have to hold securities for multi-year periods and, therefore, our investment strategies may not perform well in the short term. If our clients suffer significant losses, or are otherwise dissatisfied with our services, we could be subject to the risk of legal liabilities or actions alleging negligent misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty or breach of contract. These risks are often difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. We may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us. For information on our current legal proceedings, see "Item 3—Legal Proceedings." 23 In May 2007, our management and our independent auditors identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that, if not properly remediated, could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements and our management's inability to report that our internal controls are effective for 2008 and thereafter, as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, either of which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information or our Class A common stock to lose value. This Annual Report does not include a report of management's assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting or an attestation report of the company's registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules of the SEC for newly-public companies. The material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that are discussed below were identified in connection with the audit of our 2006 consolidated financial statements, and not in connection with an audit of our internal controls over financial reporting. As discussed in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, in May 2007, in connection with their audits of our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2006 for the purpose of including such consolidated financial statements in our Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-1436660), and related prospectus, for our initial public offering, our independent auditors informed us that they identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting for complex and non-routine transactions, as well as inadequate internal review. The material weaknesses related to errors in our accounting for stock-based compensation, liabilities associated with our existing membership units, and the consolidation of investment partnerships in our consolidated financial statements. The errors occurred as a result of not having sufficient access to accounting resources with technical accounting expertise to analyze complex and non-routine transactions, as well as inadequate internal review. We corrected these errors and believe that the audited consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report reflect the proper treatment for the complex and non-routine transactions identified by our independent auditors. In order to improve the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in general, and to remediate the material weaknesses identified by our management and our independent auditors, we have undertaken measures described in "Item 9A(T)—Controls and Procedures." The existence of material weaknesses in internal control over financing reporting is an indication that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a future period. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls requires us to continually expend significant resources in order to establish and maintain a system of internal controls that satisfies our financial reporting obligations as a public company. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will have effective internal control over our financial reporting, or that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be discovered, in the future. If we fail to maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide required financial information in a timely and reliable manner, or otherwise comply with the standards applicable to us as a public company, and our management may not be able to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective for the year ending December 31, 2008, as would be required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or thereafter. If our management is not able to do so, our independent auditors would not be able to certify that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Matters impacting our internal control over financial reporting may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC, or violations of the NYSE listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our consolidated financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements is also likely to suffer if our independent auditors report any additional material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This could lead to a decline in the price of our Class A common stock. 24 Fulfilling our public company financial reporting and other regulatory obligations will be expensive and time consuming. As a public company, we are required to implement specific corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the rules of the NYSE. Compliance with these requirements will increase our legal and accounting compliance costs and place significant additional demands on our accounting and finance staff and on our accounting, financial and information systems. As described in "Item 9A(T)—Controls and Procedures," we have hired, and will need to hire, additional accounting and finance staff with appropriate public company financial reporting experience and technical accounting knowledge, which will increase our compensation expense. As described above, our management will be required to conduct an annual assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and include a report on our internal controls in our annual reports on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, we will be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Under current rules, we will be subject to these requirements beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. We will continue to incur incremental costs in order to improve our internal control over financial reporting and comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including increased auditing and legal fees, and costs associated with hiring additional accounting, internal audit, information technology, compliance and administrative staff. The historical consolidated financial information included in this report is not necessarily indicative of our future financial results. The historical consolidated financial information included in this report may not be indicative of our future financial results. Although our AUM increased almost eightfold in the five years ended December 31, 2007, our AUM declined by 22.9% during the six months ended December 31, 2007. Although we have recently re-opened the Large Cap Value, Value Service, Small Cap Value, Mid Cap Value and All Cap Value strategies, we may close these strategies again at any time. We do not expect our AUM or revenue to grow at the same rate as they have grown in the past five years. In addition, the historical consolidated financial information included in this Annual Report prior to the consummation of the reorganization of Pzena Investment Management, LLC and the concurrent initial public offering of our Class A common stock on October 30, 2007 does not reflect all the added costs that we expect to incur as a public company. For example, because we operated through a limited liability company prior to October 30, 2007 and paid little or no taxes on our profits, our historical consolidated financial information prior to October 30, 2007 does not reflect the tax impact of our adoption of a corporate holding company structure. See "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the historical financial statements included elsewhere in this report. An increase in our borrowing costs may adversely affect our earnings and liquidity. On July 23, 2007, our operating company borrowed $60.0 million pursuant to a three-year term loan facility, the proceeds of which were used to finance a special one-time distribution to the members of our operating company as of that date. Concurrently, our operating company also obtained a $20.0 million revolving credit facility to finance our short-term working capital needs. On February 11, 2008, our operating company entered into Amendment No.1 to these facilities which, among other modifications, reduced the amount of our revolving credit facility to $5.0 million and provided for periodic repayment of outstanding principal on the three-year term loan facility upon certain events. As these facilities mature, we will be required to either refinance any amounts then outstanding by entering into new facilities, which could result in higher borrowing costs, or issuing equity, which would dilute existing shareholders. Our operating company could also repay them by using cash on hand or cash from the sale of our assets. No assurance can be given that we or our operating company will be able to enter into new facilities, or issue equity in the future, on attractive terms, or at all. 25 Risks Related to Our Investment Strategies Our results of operations depend on the performance of our investment strategies. Poor performance of our investment strategies will reduce or minimize the value of our assets under management, on which our advisory fees are based. Since advisory fees comprise all of our operating revenues, poor performance of our investment strategies will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, poor performance will make it difficult for us to retain or attract clients and to grow our business. The performance of our strategies is subject to some or all of the following risks. Our classic value investments in concentrated portfolios subject the performance of our investment strategies to the risk that the companies in which we invest may not achieve the level of earnings recovery that we initially expect, or at all. We generally invest in companies after they have experienced a shortfall in their historic earnings, due to an adverse business development, management error, accounting scandal or other disruption, and before there is clear evidence of earnings recovery or business momentum. While very few investors are willing to invest when companies lack earnings visibility, our classic value investment approach seeks to capture the return that can be obtained by investing in a company before the market has a level of confidence in its ability to achieve earnings recovery. However, our investment approach entails the risk that the companies included in our portfolios are not able to execute the turnaround that we had expected when we originally invested in them, thereby reducing the performance of our strategies. Our strategy of constructing concentrated portfolios, generally ranging from 30 to 60 holdings, of companies underperforming their historical earnings power, is subject to a higher risk of underperformance relative to benchmarks than the investment approaches of some of our competitors. Further, since our positions in these investments are often substantial, there is the risk that we may be unable to find willing purchasers for our investments when we decide to sell them. Our investment strategies may not obtain attractive returns in the short term or during certain market periods. Our products are best suited for investors with long-term investment horizons. In order for our classic value investment approach to yield attractive returns, we must typically hold securities for an average of over three years. Therefore, our investment strategies may not perform well during short periods of time. In addition, our strategies may not perform well during points in the economic cycle when value-oriented stocks are relatively less attractive. For instance, during the late stages of an economic cycle, investors may purchase relatively expensive stocks in order to obtain access to above average growth, as was the case in the late 1990s. Value-oriented strategies may also experience weakness during periods when the markets are focused on one investment thesis or sector. Our investment approach may underperform other investment approaches, which may result in significant withdrawals of client assets or client departures or a reduction in our AUM. Even when securities prices are rising generally, portfolio performance can be affected by our investment approach. We employ a classic value investment approach in all of our investment strategies. This investment approach has outperformed the market in some economic and market environments and underperformed it in others. In particular, a prolonged period in which the growth style of investing outperforms the value style may cause our investment strategy to go out of favor with some clients, consultants or third-party intermediaries. Poor performance relative to peers, coupled with changes in personnel, extensive periods in particular market environments, or other difficulties may result in significant withdrawals of client assets, client departures or a reduction in our AUM. 26 Our investment process requires us to conduct extensive fundamental research on any company before investing in it, which may result in missed investment opportunities and reduce the performance of our investment strategies. We take a considerable amount of time to complete the in-depth research projects that our investment process requires before adding any security to our portfolio. Our process requires that we take this time in order to understand the company and the business well enough to make an informed decision as to whether we are willing to own a significant position in a company whose current earnings are below its historic norms and that does not yet have earnings visibility. However, the time we take to make this judgment may cause us to miss the opportunity to invest in a company that has a sharp and rapid earnings recovery. Any such missed investment opportunities could adversely impact the performance of our investment strategies. Our Global Value and International Value investment strategies consist primarily of investments in the securities of issuers located outside of the United States, which may involve foreign currency exchange, political, social and economic uncertainties and risks. Our Global Value and International Value investment strategies, which together represented $3.1 billion of our AUM as of December 31, 2007, and are expected to comprise a larger portion of our AUM in the future, are primarily invested in securities of companies located outside the United States. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact the portfolios of our clients who are invested in these strategies. In addition, foreign currency fluctuations may affect the levels of our AUM from one reporting period to another. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to non-U.S. currencies may result in a decrease in the dollar value of our AUM, which, in turn, would result in lower U.S.-dollar denominated revenue. We do not currently engage in any hedging activities for these portfolios and continue to market these products as unhedged. Investments in non-U.S. issuers may also be affected by political, social and economic uncertainty affecting a country or region in which we are invested. Many non-U.S. financial markets are not as developed, or as efficient, as the U.S. financial market, and, as a result, liquidity may be reduced and price volatility may be higher. The legal and regulatory environments, including financial accounting standards and practices, may also be different, and there may be less publicly available information in respect of such companies. These risks could adversely impact the performance of our strategies that are invested in securities of non-U.S. issuers. The historical returns of our existing investment strategies may not be indicative of their future results or of our investment strategies under incubation. We have presented the historical returns of our investment strategies under "Item 1—Business—Our Investment Performance." The historical returns of our strategies should not be considered indicative of the future results that should be expected from these strategies or from any other strategies that we may be incubating or developing. Our products' returns have benefited from investment opportunities and general economic and market conditions that may not repeat themselves, and there can be no assurance that our current or future strategies will be able to avail themselves of profitable investment opportunities. 27 Risks Related to Our Structure Our only material asset after completion of the reorganization and our initial public offering on October 30, 2007 is our interest in Pzena Investment Management, LLC, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Pzena Investment Management, LLC to pay taxes and other expenses. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our ownership of membership units of Pzena Investment Management, LLC. We have no independent means of generating revenue. Pzena Investment Management, LLC is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, is not itself subject to U.S. federal income tax. Instead, its taxable income is allocated to its members, including us, pro rata according to the number of membership units each owns. Accordingly, we incur income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of Pzena Investment Management, LLC and also incur expenses related to our operations. We intend to cause Pzena Investment Management, LLC to distribute cash to its members in an amount at least equal to that necessary to cover their tax liabilities, if any, with respect to the earnings of Pzena Investment Management, LLC. To the extent that we need funds to pay our tax or other liabilities or to fund our operations, and Pzena Investment Management, LLC is restricted from making distributions to us under applicable laws or regulations or does not have sufficient earnings to make these distributions, we may have to borrow funds to meet these obligations and run our business and, thus, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that funds will be available to borrow under such circumstances on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We are required to pay holders of Class B units of Pzena Investment Management, LLC most of the tax benefit of any depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of the tax basis step up we receive in connection with the reorganization and future exchanges of Class B units. We used the net proceeds of our initial public offering on October 30, 2007 to purchase membership units of Pzena Investment Management, LLC from three of its members. This purchase, and any subsequent exchanges of Class B units for shares of our Class A common stock, has and are expected to result in increases in our share of the tax basis in the tangible and intangible assets of Pzena Investment Management, LLC that otherwise would not have been available. These increases in tax basis have and are expected to reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, might challenge all or part of this tax basis increase, and a court might sustain such a challenge. We have entered into a tax receivable agreement with the one member of Pzena Investment Management, LLC immediately prior to the initial public offering who sold all of their membership units to us in connection with the offering, each of the current members of Pzena Investment Management, LLC and any future holder of Class B units, pursuant to which we will pay them 85% of the amount of the cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that we realize as a result of these increases in tax basis. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of our income and the tax rates then applicable. We expect that, as a result of the size and increases in our share of the tax basis in the tangible and intangible assets of Pzena Investment Management, LLC attributable to our interest therein, the payments that we may make to these members likely will be substantial. Were the IRS to successfully challenge the tax basis increases described above, we would not be reimbursed for any payments made under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances, we could make payments under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. 28 If we are deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act, our business would be subject to applicable restrictions under that Act, which could make it impracticable for us to continue our business as contemplated. We believe our company is not an investment company under Section 3(b)(1) of the Investment Company Act because we are primarily engaged in a non-investment company business. We conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company. However, if we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated. 29 Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our Class A common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our Class A common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares of Class A common stock at or above your purchase price, if at all. We cannot assure you that the market price of our Class A common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our Class A common stock, or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Class A common stock, include: •decreases in our assets under management; •variations in our quarterly operating results; •failure to meet our earnings estimates; •publication of research reports about us or the investment management industry; •additions or departures of our managing principals and other key personnel; •adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; •actions by stockholders; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; •changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations, or differing interpretations thereof, affecting our business, or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; •adverse publicity about the asset management industry, generally, or individual scandals, specifically; and •general market and economic conditions. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline due to the large number of shares of our Class A common stock eligible for future sale upon the exchange of Class B units. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our Class A common stock eligible for future sale upon the exchange of Class B units, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital by selling equity securities in the future, at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Control by our Class B stockholders, which includes our managing principals, 19 of our other employees and two outside investors, of 97.9% of the combined voting power of our common stock may give rise to conflicts of interest. Our Class B stockholders collectively hold approximately 97.9% of the combined voting power of our common stock. Among these stockholders are each of our managing principals, 19 of our other employees and two outside investors. Holders of shares of our Class B common stock have entered into a Class B stockholders' agreement with respect to all shares of Class B common stock then held by them and any additional shares of Class B common stock they may acquire in the future. Pursuant to this agreement, they will vote these shares of Class B common stock together on all matters submitted 30 to a vote of our common stockholders. To the extent that we cause Pzena Investment Management, LLC to issue additional Class B units, which may be granted, subject to vesting, to our employees pursuant to the Pzena Investment Management, LLC 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, these employees will be entitled to receive an equivalent number of shares of our Class B common stock, subject to the condition that they agree to enter into this Class B stockholders' agreement. Each share of our Class B common stock entitles its holder to five votes per share for so long as the Class B stockholders collectively hold 20% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding. When a Class B unit is exchanged for a share of our Class A common stock, an unvested Class B unit is forfeited due to the employee holder's failure to satisfy the conditions of the award agreement pursuant to which it was granted, or any Class B unit is forfeited as result of a breach of any restrictive covenants contained in our operating company's amended and restated operating agreement, a corresponding share of our Class B common stock will automatically be redeemed by us. For so long as our Class B stockholders hold at least 20% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding, they will be able to elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby control our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends. In addition, they will be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring approval of stockholders, and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors, and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. Our Class B stockholders have the ability to prevent the consummation of mergers, takeovers or other transactions that may be in the best interests of our Class A stockholders. In particular, this concentration of voting power could deprive Class A stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares of Class A common stock as part of a sale of our company, and could ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a change of control that our stockholders may favor, which could also adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of our preferred stock and to designate the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of our preferred stock, each without any vote or action by our stockholders. We could issue a series of preferred stock to impede the consummation of a merger, tender offer or other takeover attempt. The anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may impede takeover attempts, or other transactions, that may be in the best interests of our stockholders and, in particular, our Class A stockholders. In addition, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected to the extent that provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws discourage potential takeover attempts, or other transactions, that our stockholders may favor. We intend to pay regular dividends to our stockholders, but our ability to do so is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure and applicable provisions of Delaware law. We intend to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis. Our board of directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, as a holding company, we depend upon the ability of Pzena Investment Management, LLC to generate earnings and cash flows and distribute them to us so that we may pay our obligations and expenses and pay dividends to our stockholders. We expect to cause Pzena Investment Management, LLC to make distributions to its members, including us. However, the ability of Pzena Investment Management, LLC 31 to make such distributions is subject to its operating results, loan agreements to which it is or may be a party, cash requirements and financial condition and applicable Delaware laws (which may limit the amount of funds available for distribution to its members). If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we are unable to generate sufficient distributions from our business, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our Class A common stock, see "Item 5—Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Our Dividend Policy." The disparity in the voting rights among the classes of our common stock may have a potential adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock. Shares of our Class A and Class B common stock entitle the respective holders to identical rights, except that each share of our Class A common stock entitles its holder to one vote on all matters to be voted on by stockholders generally, while each share of our Class B common stock entitles its holder to five votes for so long as the number of shares of Class B common stock represents 20% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding. The difference in voting rights could adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock to the extent that investors view, or any potential future purchaser of our company views, the superior voting rights of the Class B common stock to have value. 32 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We did not receive, during the period ending 180 days prior to December 31, 2007, any written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 