risk factors disclosed in Item 3.D., “Key Information — Risk Factors,” of this Annual Report on Form 20-F and the other risks and factors outlined in this Annual Report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements contained herein speak only as of the date of the Annual Report. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Except as may be required by applicable law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements in the Annual Report , whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. PART I ITEM 1. IDENTITY OF DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND ADVISERS Not applicable. ITEM 2. OFFER STATISTICS AND EXPECTED TIMETABLE Not applicable. ITEM 3. KEY INFORMATION A. A. Selected Financial Data The following tables present our selected historical consolidated financial data. The selected consolidated statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009 and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2008 and 2009 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F and should be read in conjunction with those financial statements and the accompanying notes and Item 5 — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” Our selected consolidated statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006 and our selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 has been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements for these periods and dates, which are not included in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. 5 Our financial statements were prepared and are presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our historical results included below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F are not necessarily indicative of our future performance. Selected Statement of Operations Data For the year ended December 31, 2009 (2) 2008 2007 2006 2005 (in thousands, except for share and per share data) Revenue $ 311,252 $ 264,866 $ 152,544 $ 98,705 $ 75,452 Cost of sales and business taxes 260,167 227,990 131,987 85,915 66,946 Gross profit 51,085 36,876 20,557 12,790 8,506 Income from operations 38,240 28,176 17,075 10,890 6,584 Net (loss) income (1) (16,692 ) 28,516 15,214 7,510 4,378 Foreign currency translation adjustment (119 ) 4,562 1,542 162 354 Comprehensive (loss) income (16,811 ) 33,078 16,756 7,672 4,732 Net (Loss)/Earnings per share: Basic (0.49 ) 0.96 1.17 0.58 0.34 Diluted (0.49 ) 0.94 1.17 0.58 0.34 Weighted average number of shares outstanding: Basic 34,199,100 29,824,158 13,000,000 13,000,000 13,000,000 Diluted 34,199,100 30,432,434 13,000,000 13,000,000 13,000,000 Cash dividend per share: US$ - - - 0.39 - RMB - - - 3.08 - (1) We had no discontinued operations. (2) Net (loss) income and comprehensive (loss) income for the year ended December 31, 2009 includes $52.8 million of expenses related to the accounting for and conversion of Convertible Debt. Selected Consolidated Balance Sheet Data As of December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 (in thousands, except for number of common shares) Current Assets $ 258,189 $ 146,323 $ 60,691 $ 32,396 $ 24,170 Total assets 355,357 205,537 69,177 37,957 29,844 Current liabilities 102,719 49,570 37,643 25,943 13,818 Total liabilities 102,719 49,570 37,643 25,943 13,818 Stockholders’ equity (net assets) 252,638 155,967 31,328 25,122 25,073 Capital stock 4 3 1 1 1 Number of common shares issued and outstanding 39,585,706 33,706,938 13,000,000 13,000,000 13,000,000 Exchange Rate Information The functional currency of our operating subsidiaries in the PRC is the Renminbi, and our functional currency and our holding company subsidiaries’ functional currency is the U.S. dollar. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been translated as necessary and presented in U.S. dollars according to U.S. GAAP and the accounting standard on “Foreign Currency Translation”. In accordance with this accounting standard, all assets and liabilities were translated at the current exchange rate at the balance sheet date, stockholders’ equity was translated at the historical rates, and the consolidated statement of income and consolidated statement of cash flows were translated at the average exchange rate for the period. At December 31, 2009, the assets and liabilities of the Company maintained in Renminbi were translated to U.S. dollars at US$1.00 = RMB6.8259, and the consolidated statement of income of the Company maintained in Renminbi was translated to U.S. dollars at US$1.00 = RMB6.8307. The foreign currency translation adjustment of $119,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009 has been reported as accumulated other comprehensive income in the consolidated statement of stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income. 6 We make no representation that any RMB or U.S. dollar amounts could have been, or could be, converted into U.S. dollars or RMB, as the case may be, at any particular rate, the rates stated below, or at all. The RMB is not freely convertible into foreign currency. The PRC government imposes control over its foreign currency reserves in part through direct regulation of the conversion of the RMB into foreign exchange and through restrictions on foreign trade. Since January 1, 1994, the People’s Bank of China, or the PBOC, has set and published daily a base exchange rate with reference primarily to the supply and demand of RMB against the U.S. dollar in the market during the prior day. On July 21, 2005, the PBOC announced a reform of its exchange rate system and revalued the RMB to RMB8.11 to US$1.00. Under the reform, the RMB is no longer effectively linked to the U.S. dollar but instead is allowed to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies, according to market demand and supply conditions. The PBOC announces the RMB closing price each day and that rate serves as the mid-point of the next day’s trading band. The following table sets forth information concerning exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar for the periods indicated. These rates are provided solely for your convenience and are not necessarily the exchange rates that we used in this Annual Report on Form 20-F or will use in the preparation of our periodic reports or any other information to be provided to you. The source of these rates is the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for the periods through December 2008 and the Federal Reserve H.10 Statistical Release for the periods beginning on or after January 1, 2009. As of March 26, 2010, the RMB: US$ exchange rate was 6.8269. Period Period End Average Low High (RMB per US$1.00) 2005 8.0702 8.1940 8.2765 8.0702 2006 7.8041 7.9723 8.0702 7.8041 2007 7.2946 7.6072 7.8127 7.2946 2008 6.8225 6.9477 7.2946 6.7800 2009 6.8259 6.8307 6.8176 6.8470 September 6.8262 6.8277 6.8247 6.8303 October 6.8264 6.8267 6.8248 6.8292 November 6.8265 6.8271 6.8255 6.8300 December 6.8259 6.8275 6.8244 6.8299 2010 January 6.8268 6.8269 6.8258 6.8295 February 6.8258 6.8285 6.8258 6.8330 March (through March 26) 6.8259 6.8262 6.8254 6.8270 (1) Annual averages are calculated by using the average of the noon buying exchange rates for each trading day during the annual period. 7 B. Capitalization and Indebtedness Not applicable. C. Reasons for the Offer and Use of Proceeds Not applicable. D. Risk Factors Risks related to our business Our limited operating history and recent entrance into new business lines, especially our limited experience in the wind energy and solar energy markets, as well as our entrance into international markets outside of China, may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and future prospects, and are subject to certain risks. We have a limited operating history. GaoKe commenced operations in 2003 and to date we have conducted nearly all of our business within China through GaoKe. Accordingly, our operating history upon which you can evaluate the viability and sustainability of our business and its acceptance by industry participants is limited. Thus, it may be difficult for you to evaluate our business and future prospects, and you should not rely on our past results or our historic growth rate as an indication of our future performance. In addition, we have expanded our operations rapidly during the last three years and we plan to continue our expansion efforts by capitalizing on the accelerating industrialization of China’s inland regions and other areas poorly served by the existing national power grid, targeting customers outside of China, increasing our investments in wind energy and our ability to produce wind turbines and diversifying our portfolio of alternative energy offerings. We recently acquired Evatech, a producer of manufacturing equipment for thin-film silicone amorphous PV cells and solar panels, which we believe will enhance our product offerings, improve our market opportunities and diversify our business. While we have completed construction of our wind turbine production facility in Shenyang, we only began assembly of wind turbines in June 2009 and, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F, we have generated only limited revenues from our wind energy business and no material revenues from our newly-acquired solar energy business. Furthermore, our expansion may have created, and may continue to create, significant demands on our corporate, administrative, operational and financial personnel and other human resources. In addition, this expansion into existing and new markets and new lines of business could strain our management and operational resources and will increase our need for capital, which may result in cash flow shortages. Our resources may not be adequate to support our desired expansion. Our current and planned operations, personnel, systems, internal procedures and controls may not be adequate to support the integration of Evatech or any other planned future growth. Consequently, our ability to take advantage of market demand for our products and services and to maintain and increase our profitability may be materially hindered or impeded In addition to our entrance into the wind energy and solar energy markets, our business model has also evolved with our expansion of our businesses internationally, which will also require significant amounts of management time and attention. Our products and our overall approach to the distributed power generation, micro grid, wind power and solar energy may not be accepted in other markets to the extent needed to make that effort profitable. In addition, the additional demands on our management from these activities may detract from their efforts in the Chinese market, causing the operating results in our principal customer market to be adversely affected. There are risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including: · exchange rate fluctuations; · political, economic, legal or other developments affecting target markets, including changes or developments in tax regimes or regulations relating to our industry; and · potential tariff and trade barriers in target markets resulting in additional costs for our business and products. Our business continues to evolve in conjunction with the evolution of the alternative energy market in China and globally. In addition, due to the forgoing risks, we cannot assure that we will successfully grow or manage our expansion into new business lines or international markets. 8 We have limited or no experience producing wind turbines, which is a critical component of our growth and overall business strategy. We began production of wind turbines only in June 2009, and as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F, we have generated limited revenue from the assembly of ten 2.7 MW wind turbines for use in 49.5 MW and 19.5 MW wind farm projects in Saiwusu, Inner Mongolia and Donggang, Shandong Province. The production of wind turbines is a key element of our business strategy and growth plans. However, it is a new line of business for us and one in which we have limited experience. Additionally, our wind energy operations will continue to be subject to risks inherent in the establishment of a new business, including, among other things, efficiently deploying our capital, sourcing components, developing our production facilities and product and service offerings, maintaining quality controls, adapting to individual customer specifications, developing and implementing our marketing campaigns and strategies and developing awareness and acceptance of our products. Our ability to generate future revenues from these operations will be dependent on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. To be successful, we must, among other things, demonstrate the stability of our wind turbines and establish market recognition in this business. This will require us to expend significant resources, including capital and management time and we cannot give any assurance that this aspect of our business will be successful. For more information, please see Item 4.B – “Business Overview – Competition – Wind Power,” to this Annual Report on Form 20-F. Our alternative energy products and systems compete with different products and systems as well as other renewable energy sources in the alternative energy market. If we fail to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors, our business prospects and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We operate in an industry that is intensely competitive and developing rapidly. If we fail to attract and retain customers in our target markets for our current and future products and systems, we will be unable to increase our revenues and market share. We often compete with local and international producers of alternative energy systems and products that are substantially larger than us, including the divisions of large international conglomerates. We may also face competition from new entrants to the market for alternative energy systems and products, including those that offer more advanced or different technological solutions or that have greater financial resources. A significant number of potential competitors are developing or currently producing products based on advanced technologies which may eventually offer cost advantages over our products, systems and technologies. A widespread adoption of any of these competitive technologies could result in a rapid decline in our position in the renewable energy market and our revenues if we fail to adopt such technologies. Furthermore, the entire alternative energy industry also faces competition from conventional energy and non-renewable energy providers. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. This is particularly the case with respect to our wind energy business. The greater size of many of our competitors provides them with cost advantages as a result of their economies of scale and their ability to obtain volume discounts and purchase raw materials at lower prices. As a result, such competitors may have stronger bargaining power with their suppliers and have an advantage over us in pricing as well as securing sufficient supply of required components during times of shortage. Many of our competitors also have better brand name recognition, more established distribution networks, larger customer bases or more in-depth knowledge of the target markets. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the research and development, promotion and sale of their products and respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions as compared to us. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or future competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations. For more information, please see Item 4.B – “Business Overview – Competition – Distributed Power Generation,” to this Annual Report on Form 20-F. Our revenue from our distributed power generation business segment depends on gaining new customers and project contracts, and we do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Currently and historically, we have only had a limited amount of projects in process at any time. For example, we completed six distributed power generation projects in 2009 and have 12 distributed power generation projects in process. Thus, our revenues have historically resulted, and are expected to continue in the immediate future to result, primarily from performing individual contracts in our power distribution generation and micro-grid system business that, once completed, typically produce only a limited amount of ongoing revenue for maintenance and other services. Customers may also change or delay orders for any number of reasons, such as force majeure or seasonality factors that are unrelated to us. As a result, in order to maintain and expand our business, we must be able to replenish the orders in our pipeline on a continuous basis. However, it is difficult to predict whether and when we will receive such orders or project contracts due to the lengthy and complex bidding and selection process, which is affected by factors that we do not control, such as market and economic conditions, financing arrangements, commodity prices, environmental issues and government approvals. In addition, we may experience delays or failures in receiving payments and therefore our revenues and profits may be reduced. Furthermore, our results of operations may fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year depending on whether and when we receive such orders or project contracts, as well as the commencement and progress of work under such contracts. It is also possible that some of our potential customers could choose the products of our competitors instead, any number of whom may supply products with larger generating capacity than products which we produce. Should they do so, or if any of the foregoing risks materialize, we could suffer a significant and material decline in our revenues and profitability. Our projects and business operations will require significant amounts of working capital. If we or our customers cannot satisfy these working capital requirements, the growth and development of our business could suffer materially. Our wind turbine business is capital intensive and our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to develop and market innovative products and to update our facilities and technology. We may require additional capital in the future to finance our future growth and development, implement further marketing and sales activities, fund our ongoing research and development activities and meet our general working capital needs. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including acceptance of and demand for our products and services, the extent to which we invest in new technology and research and development projects, and the status and timing of competitive developments. However, additional financing may not be available when needed on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on acceptable terms, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our distributed power generation business is capital-intensive. The required capital is generally provided by contractual payments by our customers and customer-arranged financing. Our customers may not be able to obtain new capital on reasonable commercial terms, or at all. Our customers’ ability to arrange financing and the cost of such financing depends on numerous factors, including general economic and capital markets conditions, credit availability from banks, institutions or other lenders, and investor confidence in our customers and the projects we will undertake for them. If our customers are unable to obtain capital on reasonable commercial terms, our project costs could increase or our customers could decline to engage us for distributed power generation projects, as a result of which our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our working capital is necessary to fund our general business operations. Such working capital presently includes cash on hand and from operations, the net proceeds of the Company’s $83 million equity financing in January 2010, and anticipated rebates from the PRC and Chinese local governments in the amount of $22 million for the Evatech acquisition. Although we believe we have sufficient capital on hand for the next 12 months, we cannot predict the amount or timing of additional funds that may be needed under changed circumstances, or those requirements linked to certain contingent events. In addition, various opportunities may arise, such as significant business development transactions, new product development projects, changes to our capital structure, acquisition opportunities or other factors, which may affect our working capital requirements. As a result, we may be required to seek internal or external sources of financing, either through the debt and/or capital markets or other financing sources, in which case, the availability of financing will depend on future credit and capital markets conditions which we cannot control. The continuing uncertainty and volatility of the credit and capital markets may limit our access to additional funding and we may not be able to secure financing on favorable terms to us, or at all. We cannot assure you that we will not experience unexpected changes in capital requirements resulting from opportunities, or the realization of certain contingent events such as future commitments and joint venture agreements, or the unavailability of financing. Any of these possible developments could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and capital resources. 9 Investor confidence and the market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted if we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. As a public company, we are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or SOX, adopted rules requiring most public companies to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the company’s independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal controls are not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree. If our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our internal control over financial reporting is documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do, then they may issue an adverse or qualified opinion. Historically, our business has been conducted as a private company and we have had limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. In 2008 and 2009, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We have endeavored to remediate the weaknesses we identified in our internal control over financial reporting, and we have completed the work we believe is required to remediate the weaknesses identified with respect to (1) oversight of financial reporting, (2) communication of appropriate business practices and standards, (3) written policies and procedures, (4) effective procedures to ensure that risks related to financial reporting are assessed in a timely manner, (5) monitoring of internal controls, and (6) the financial reporting process and the underlying accounting processes. We presently expect to complete our remediation activities with respect to weaknesses in our internal control relating to the assessment of business risks and the monitoring of internal controls by June 2010, which include (1) hiring a vice president to help us improve our internal control by leading our internal control project team and helping headquarters, subsidiaries and business departments improve internal control, (2) performance of risk assessment in a timely manner and better communication on business practices, standards and risks, (3) assessment of key policies and processes and (4) monitoring of internal controls by our Audit Committee and management. However, we cannot assure you that such measures will be successful. If we fail to timely achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting for subsequent years. Moreover effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability and completeness of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and materially and adversely impact the trading price of our common shares. Further we cannot assure you that we will be able to establish Section 404 compliant internal controls at our recently acquired Evatech subsidiary or, if we are able to establish such controls, how long it will take us to do so. Decreases in the price of oil and gas and a decline in popular support for “green” energy technologies could reduce demand for our distributed power generation and wind turbine systems, which could materially harm our ability to grow our business. Higher oil and gas prices provide incentives for customers to invest in “green” energy technologies such as distributed power generation, wind turbine systems biomass power plants and solar systems that reduce their need for petroleum-based fuels. Conversely, lower oil and gas prices would tend to reduce the incentive for customers to invest in capital equipment to produce electrical power or seek out alternative energy. Demand for our products and services depend in part on the current and future commodity prices of oil and gas. We have no control over the current or future prices of oil and gas. In addition, popular support by governments, corporations and individuals for “green” energy technologies may change. Because of the ongoing development of, and the possible change in support for,“green” energy technologies we cannot assure you that negative changes to this industry will not occur. Changes in government or popular support for “green” energy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects and results of operations. Changes in the growth of demand for electricity could reduce demand for our distributed power generation and wind turbine systems, which could materially harm our ability to grow our business. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of the PRC, domestic electricity consumption grew at a rate of 6.3% in 2009. The China Electricity Council has forecast that the rate of growth in China’s electricity demand will continue to increase in 2010 as the growth in electricity consumption increases due to the continued development of the Chinese economy. However, such growth is unpredictable and depends on general economic conditions and consumer demand, both of which are beyond our control. Such changes in the demand for electricity may affect demand for our distributed power generation and wind turbine systems, and therefore, could materially harm our ability to grow our business. 10 Our distributed power generation business and operating entities require certain licenses, registrations and certificates. Our distributed power generation business is subject to various rules and regulations in the PRC. In order to construct, implement and test our power generation systems and micro grids, we are required to have the right to use or possess relevant licenses, such as the Class A license issued by the Ministry of Construction of the PRC, or Ministry of Construction, which includes a construction permit and design permit that allow holders to undertake and construct various power systems, energy and infrastructure projects of any size in China. In 2009, through our joint venture company, LICEG Ltd., in which we hold 90% of the ownership interest, we had the full right to use a Class A License held by LICEG, a construction company established by the Liaoning provincial government, which holds the remaining 10% interest. In early 2010, we obtained ownership of the Class A License as it is currently in the process of being transferred from LICEG to LICEG Ltd. In addition, we are required to hold a Class B License, which allows us to undertake certain construction projects of a smaller size, as well as the PRC Overseas Project Contracting Business Qualification License, issued by the Ministry of Commerce of the PRC, or MOFCOM, which allows us to undertake overseas construction projects. In addition, our operating entities require certain business licenses and registrations. Currently, the terms of our operating entities range from 5 years to 30 years and must be renewed before their expiry. Renewal procedures generally entail the submission of certain applications, supporting materials and fees to the relevant PRC government entity that supervises the entity. However, if any such license or registration were revoked or suspended, or if we experience delays or fail or are unable to renew such licenses or registrations upon expiry or are unable to obtain new licenses and registrations required by the PRC laws, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on our licensing partners, and events involving these licensing partners or any future licensing partners could prevent us from developing our wind turbine business. The success of our current business strategy will depend in part on our ability to successfully perform under and manage strategic licensing partnerships. Since we do not currently possess the technology necessary to independently develop and assemble wind turbines, we may need to enter into additional collaborative agreements to assist in the development of wind turbines in certain markets for a particular customer. Establishing strategic partnerships is difficult and time-consuming. Potential partners may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position, and our discussions with potential partners may not lead to the establishment of new partnerships on acceptable terms. We and our present and future partners may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products covered by our present and future collaborations. With respect to our licensing agreement with Norwin, we agreed to pay the balance of the licensing fee of $1.7 million to Norwin in installments based on the number of 750 kW and 225 kW wind turbines we produce, provided that this amount was paid by February 15, 2009. As of the date of this Annual Report, we have yet to start producing any 750 kW or 225 kW wind turbines and have not paid a balance of $0.55 million of such amount to Norwin; however, Norwin has provided us written confirmation dated May 31, 2009 that the agreement we have with them is still valid and both we and Norwin continue to perform our obligations under this agreement. In May 2007, we entered into a license agreement with Fuhrländer, that gave us an exclusive right to sell and a non-exclusive right to produce Fuhrländer’s 2.5 MW series wind turbines in Liaoning and Hebei provinces of China and a non-exclusive right to produce and sell Fuhrländer’s 2.5 MW series wind turbines in nine other PRC provinces. In January 2009, this license agreement was amended to upgrade the wind turbine series from 2.5 MW wind turbines to 2.7 MW wind turbines. The largely non-exclusive nature of this license agreement reduces barriers to entry and could result in increased competition and/or the entrance of new direct or indirect competitors with our wind turbine business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. There are certain disputes between us and Fuhrländer concerning payment and performance under this license agreement. We are currently attempting to rectify this situation and are also negotiating an amendment to the license agreement to broaden the scope of our rights to use the technology licensed thereunder. There can be no assurance, however, that the parties will succeed in resolving the issues between them. If we are unable to rectify this situation, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Moreover, disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to any technology developed with any current or future partner. Lengthy negotiations with potential new partners or disagreements between us and our partners or conflicts among our partners may lead to termination of our licensing rights or delays in the production of our wind turbines. If we are not able to establish additional partnerships on terms that are favorable to us or if our existing partnerships are terminated and we cannot replace them, we may not be able to develop our wind turbine business. Any of the foregoing may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A lack of adequate grid capacity in China could limit demand for our wind turbines and materially damage our business prospects. Our customers will rely on access to the electrical grid to market the wind power they generate. In 2009, nearly 13 GW of additional wind power capacity was installed in China, which accounted for nearly one-third of new global wind power capacity in 2009, according to the State Electricity Regulatory Commission of the PRC. Installed wind power capacity is expected to rise to 35-40 GW by 2012. Current grid capabilities might be unable to cope with the expected increased capacity and it is likely grid bottlenecks will reduce the ability of wind power to access the market. If our customers are unable to access the electrical market, the demand for our wind turbines may not develop or may develop to a significantly lesser extent than we anticipated. Projects included in our backlog may be delayed or cancelled, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As of March 31, 2010, our backlog was approximately $367.0 million. Backlog represents the dollar amount of revenue we expect to realize in the future as a result of performing work under multi-period contracts that we have entered into. The dollar amount of backlog does not necessarily indicate future earnings related to the performance of that work because of changes in customer orders, project scope, schedule and weather conditions. As a result, we cannot predict with certainty when or if backlog will be performed or the associated revenue will be recognized. In addition, even where a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties may default and fail to pay amounts owed to us. Delays, cancellations or payment defaults could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Systems that we develop and install may contain design or manufacturing defects, which could result in reduced demand for our services and customer claims and uninsured liabilities. We design, produce and oversee the construction of relatively large and complex electric generating, co-generation and micro grid power networks. At times these systems may contain design or manufacturing errors or defects, including defects in equipment that we purchase for use with our systems. Any defects in our systems may result in claims for economic damage, delays in completion, or reduced or cancelled customer orders. If these types of problems occur, we may incur additional significant costs, and if they occur frequently, we may sustain additional significant costs, loss of business reputation and legal liability. 11 The liability of product suppliers in China is evolving. Until recently that liability has been difficult to impose for various reasons, including an underdeveloped civil justice system. As a result, the need for insurance has not been substantial, and the types of insurance products that western companies typically procure to protect against these risks may be difficult or even impossible to obtain at reasonable cost or any cost. If a litigant were successful against us it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could materially and adversely affect our market reputation which could result in a significant decline in demand for our products. We expect to rely increasingly on our proprietary products and systems and on technology developed by our licensors. If we or our licensors become involved in an intellectual property dispute, we could be forced to spend a significant amount of time and financial resources to resolve such intellectual property dispute, diverting time and resources away from our business and operations. Our business is based on a number of proprietary products and systems, which we protect as trade secrets. In addition, we license wind turbine technology from third parties. We expect that our reliance on these proprietary products, systems and technology will grow, as the functionality of distributed power generation and micro power grids increases to meet customer demand, as we commence and expand our wind turbine business as we try to open new markets for our products. If a third party should infringe on any of our intellectual property rights or those of our licensors, we may need to devote significant time and financial resources to attempt to halt the infringement, and we may not be successful in such a dispute. In the absence of patent protection for our trade secrets, if any of these parties are able to “reverse engineer” our products and systems, we might not have legal recourse against them. Similarly, in the event of an infringement claim against us or our licensors, we may be required to spend a significant amount of time and financial resources to resolve the claim. We may not be successful in defending our position or negotiating an alternative. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. A shortage of adequate components could increase our costs or cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders, and our failure to estimate customer demand properly may result in excess component inventories that could adversely affect our future growth. Strong demand for certain component parts for wind turbines, such as gear boxes, generators and blades, and/or capacity constraints, or other problems experienced by suppliers, could result in supply shortages or delivery delays for these components. This is particularly true with respect to component parts for our 2.7 MW wind turbines that use advanced technology and with respect to which we compete globally against other wind turbine producers purchasing the same components. Although we have established joint ventures with GE Electronic and Jiangsu Miracle to produce and sell key wind turbine components in China, including wind turbine gearboxes, rotor blades, hubs and nacelle covers, these joint ventures have not yet commenced production and we currently purchase component parts for our 2.7 MW wind turbines from overseas suppliers. In order to reduce costs, we have considered sourcing these components from suppliers located in China that are price competitive. However, components purchased from domestic suppliers generally use less advanced technology and may result in lower quality products when compared to the components that we currently purchase from our overseas suppliers. In addition, if our licensors do not approve the locally-sourced components, we could lose certain warranties or other rights under our licenses. Component parts for our 750 kW and 225 kW wind turbines are more readily available domestically and internationally. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. Conversely, we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new wind turbines in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Our operating results could also be materially and adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we need. Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. Given that many wind farm operators are large state-owned power companies in China with extensive bargaining power, we may not be able to pass on the increase of costs of wind turbine components to our customers, thereby reducing our margins and negatively affecting our results of operations. Our foreign sources of components might not always be reliable, which may result in a disruption in the supply of parts to our production facilities and cause delays in our wind turbine assembly. We currently purchase components directly from foreign suppliers for our wind turbine assembly. Our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs and quotas. We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business with foreign suppliers and importing components from abroad, such as: (i) political instability; (ii) security measures at Chinese ports, which could delay delivery of imports; (iii) imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into China from countries in a region within which we do business; (iv) imposition of duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; (v) delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to the failure of foreign-source suppliers to comply with applicable import regulations; (vi) delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to organized labor strikes or unexpected or significant port congestion at Chinese ports; and (vii) local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards which may result in adverse publicity. Any inability on our part to rely on our foreign sources of production due to any of the factors listed above could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our wind turbine production facility and our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 The development of our wind energy power plant project in Texas requires significant development work and capital and entails political risks. In December 2009, Shenyang Power Group entered into an agreement with USREG Wind, to establish Texas A Wind, a project company to own, design, develop, construct, manage and operate a US$1.5 billion wind energy power plant. This project is at an early stage of development and requires significant development work, including but not limited to, acquiring additional land or land rights, undertaking feasibility studies and engineering design work, entering into of utility interconnection arrangements, securing additional permits and obtaining debt and equity project financing and governmental incentives to cover development and construction costs. Much of the development work must be completed before the project can obtain project financing, receive turbines and equipment, and commence construction. The development of this project may be further complicated by the introduction of new legislation in the United States. For example, several U.S. senators have recently introduced legislation that would halt U.S. federal funding of renewable energy projects until “Buy American” requirements are written into law. It is uncertain as to whether this legislation will ultimately be passed, or if passed, the final form it will take. We currently intend that a minimum of 70% of each wind turbine to be supplied in relation to this project would be manufactured in a new production and assembly plant in the United States, but we cannot assure you that this plant will be built, or if built, whether it will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of such proposed legislation when and if passed into law. Furthermore, Senator Charles Schumer has specifically urged the Obama administration to block any stimulus money from financing this project. While the prospects and progress of this proposed legislation cannot be predicted, the political and policy priorities in the United States remain uncertain and we cannot assure you that the introduction of this or other legislation in the United States will not adversely impact the development of this project or that U.S. federal funding for this project can or will be obtained. Our inability to obtain U.S. federal funding for this project would significantly increase our costs associated with this project. Under the agreement, our indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary, Ruixiang is designated to be the exclusive manufacturer and supplier of turbines to the power plant and our indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary GaoKe Energy, is designated to be the contractor for the project. The development, financing, construction and operation of the project entails numerous risks, including those referred to above, and we cannot assure you that the project will secure the project financing necessary to purchase and pay for the turbines to be provided by Ruixiang or the construction services to be provided by GaoKe Energy or that all final land or land rights, permitting and transmission rights and capacity will be obtained. All such financing and rights must be obtained for the project to commence commercial operations, generate revenues and achieve economic success. We may not be able to retain, recruit and train adequate technical and management personnel, and increased competition for qualified personnel in China could result in an increase in wages that we may not be able to offer in order to stay competitive. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified technical personnel such as engineers, particularly those with expertise in the wind power industry. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and we cannot give any assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our qualified technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified technical personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We rely heavily on the continued services of our executive management personnel, who have contributed to our growth and expansion. Our executive team plays an important role in our operations and the development of our new products. Accordingly, the loss of their services, in particular those of Mr. Jinxiang Lu, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. John S. Lin, our Chief Operating Officer, without suitable replacement (which may be difficult to find), could have a material adverse affect on our operations and future business prospects. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. As a result, our business may be severely disrupted and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some or all of our customers. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain these key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled managerial, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. 13 Each of our executive officers and other key personnel have entered into employment agreements with us, which contain confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any disputes arise between our employees and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where some of our executive officers reside and hold some of their assets. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” Our technicians may have difficulty adapting our licensed technology to local conditions. In 2007, we entered into licenses to produce and sell wind turbines based on technology from Germany and Denmark. Our ability to develop these products depends on our technicians ability to understand and localize this technology. For example, in Northern China our wind turbines must be adapted to operate in temperatures that are typically much colder in the winter than temperatures in Germany and Denmark. If our technicians fail to understand and localize the technologies we source from Germany and Denmark to China and other regions where we operate, it may cause significant delays in the development of our wind turbines and we may be required to spend a significant amount of time and financial resources to resolve these technical problems. Inclement weather conditions could materially and adversely affect our operating results in particular quarters and/or fiscal years. We recognize revenue on our distributed power generation system projects on a percentage of completion basis. Historically, we have completed these projects in 12 to 24 months, depending on the size of the project. However, completion dates of our distributed power generation projects in Northeastern China, where a majority of our projects are located, are difficult to predict primarily due to the unpredictable and potentially harsh weather conditions in this region from December through March of each year. As a result, a significant amount of expected revenue could go unrealized in particular quarters and/or fiscal years. For example, in addition to our expected seasonal slowdown in production during the winter months, extremely cold and stormy weather conditions in Northern China can cause unexpected delays in production. With respect to our wind turbine business, because we recognize revenue for the manufacture and installation of wind turbines only upon notice of customer acceptance, inclement weather or other conditions affecting the time of acceptance by our customers could also affect the timing associated with our recognition of revenues. The number and length of project delays resulting from adverse weather conditions are difficult to predict and may materially and adversely affect our operating results in particular quarters and/or fiscal years. Increases in the price of raw materials and labor for our distributed power generation business may increase our cost of sales and significantly reduce our earnings. We, or our sub-contractors, typically procure the raw materials used in the construction of our distributed power generation project developments from third party suppliers. We also hire contract labor for our projects. We usually have provisions in our agreements with our customers that in the event the prices of raw materials or labor increase beyond a certain threshold (usually by an increase of 15% or greater), the agreements are subject to renegotiation to factor in increased prices. In China, raw materials can fluctuate in price or experience periodic shortages, particularly different types of steel. Other raw materials, such as diesel fuel, cement and concrete blocks can also fluctuate. If we are unable to pass on such price increases to our customers, our construction costs would increase accordingly and our earnings could be materially and significantly reduced. We may experience construction and development delays or operational risks with respect to our projects which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. The construction of distributed power generation systems and other forms of power plants involves many risks, including shortages of equipment, material and labor, labor disturbances, accidents, inclement weather, unforeseen engineering, environmental, geological, delays and other problems and unanticipated cost increases, any of which could give rise to significant delays and/or cost overruns. Construction delays may result in significant loss of revenues. We may commit to a client that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. We may also commit that a project, when completed, will achieve specified performance standards. If the project is not completed by the scheduled date or subsequently fails to meet required performance standards, we may either incur significant additional costs or be held responsible for the costs incurred by the client to rectify damages due to late completion or failure to achieve the required performance standards. Failure to complete construction according to specifications may result in significant liabilities, decreased efficiency as well as significantly increased operating costs and reduced earnings. We cannot give any assurance that construction of future projects will be completed on schedule or within budget. In addition, the operation of power plants involves many risks and hazards, including breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment, improper installation or operation of equipment, labor disturbances, natural disasters, environmental hazards and industrial accidents. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the above events, may materially and adversely affect the profitability of a power plant. 14 Our earnings may fluctuate from period to period due to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the RMB and US dollar or the Euro or Thai baht. Our functional currency is the RMB, however, we report our financial information in US dollars and we conduct and will continue to conduct transactions in currencies other than RMB, including the Euro and Thai baht. The value of the RMB fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. The conversion of RMB into foreign currencies such as the US dollar has been generally based on rates set by the PBOC, which are set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. While the official exchange rate had remained stable over the past several years, the PRC has adopted a floating rate with respect to the RMB, with permitted ranges of fluctuation. Since we report our financial information in US dollar and conduct transactions in currencies other than RMB, including the Euro and Thai baht, fluctuations between the RMB and US dollar or the Euro or Thai baht could result in swings in our reported results of operations. Future acquisitions may require us to incur costs and liabilities which may adversely affect our operating results. In addition to internal growth, our current strategy involves growth through acquisitions of complementary technologies, businesses and services and strategic alliances. Like other companies with similar growth strategies, we may be unable to continue to implement our growth strategy, and this strategy may be ultimately unsuccessful. We frequently engage in evaluations of potential acquisitions and negotiations for possible acquisitions, certain of which, if consummated, could be significant to us. Any potential acquisitions may result in material transaction expenses, increased interest and amortization expense, increased depreciation expense and increased operating expense, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and require us to raise capital to fund these expenses. Acquisitions may entail integration and management of the new businesses to realize economies of scale and control costs. In addition, acquisitions involve other risks, including diversion of management resources otherwise available for ongoing development of our business and the need to manage relationships with customers and suppliers and risks associated with entering new markets. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, obtain acceptable financing or consummate any future acquisitions. Finally, as a result of our acquisitions of other businesses, we may be subject to the risk of unanticipated business uncertainties or legal liabilities relating to those acquired businesses for which the sellers of the acquired businesses may not indemnify us. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of securities. We might not be able to expand into the solar energy market as planned. We entered the solar energy market by acquiring Evatech, a business with a limited track record in the production and sale of equipment for manufacturing PV cells and solar panels. Before the acquisition, Evatech focused on the production of equipment and materials for liquid crystal displays, plasma displays and related products. Evatech previously developed equipment to produce thin film and PV components but did not commercialize this equipment. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F, we have not generated any material revenue, and have received one purchase order for a set of production equipment since the completion of the Evatech acquisition in January 2010. In addition to the risks generally inherent in acquisitions (see – “– Risks related to our business – Future acquisitions may require us to incur costs and liabilities which may adversely affect our operating results”), our business strategy to expand into the solar energy market by acquiring Evatech exposes us to the following risks: · we might not be able to obtain the necessary approvals and licenses to produce and market our solar products in China and other target markets; · our evaluation of Evatech’s business, products and prospects as well as its liabilities may prove inaccurate and · we have made applications for, but have not received, the expected government rebates representing 45% of the acquisition price of Evatech. If we cannot manage our acquisition effectively, we might be unable to take advantage of market opportunities or execute our business strategies with respect to our solar energy business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects. We need support and permission from our licensing partners to use technology in connection with our wind turbine business in markets outside of China, which may be difficult to obtain and could materially harm our ability to grow our business. In connection with our wind turbine business, we currently license technologies which we are permitted to use in designated territories. We will need technical support and permission from our licensing partners to use such technology in territories not currently granted to us in our existing license agreements. We may be unsuccessful in entering into agreements with our licensing partners in order to provide this technical support and permission or in negotiating favorable terms in these agreements. Further, if any negotiations take considerably longer to conclude than the parties initially anticipate, this could cause us to enter into agreement terms that are less favorable to us, and this could materially harm our ability to grow our business. 15 We use forward foreign purchase instruments that are subject to conditions outside of our control. We began to use forward foreign purchase instruments to avoid foreign currency risk in 2009. We believe forward foreign currency purchase instruments minimize exposures beyond spot contracts, as they allow a purchaser to secure the then exchange rate for settlement at a future date. We believe this forward purchase instrument may protect our profit margins by setting anticipated foreign payables or receivables at present market levels to protect against currency fluctuations. For more information, see Item 11 – “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Foreign currency risk,” to this Annual Report on Form 20-F. However, as with all hedging, derivative and related financial instruments, there are risks arising from foreign exchange market fluctuations and changes in general economic condition that are outside of our control. Market factors may increase or decrease foreign exchange rates, resulting in unfavorable exchange rates or prices and heightened exposure to market risks. We cannot assure you that our purchase instruments will minimize our foreign currency risks, or at all. If we experience losses on our purchase instruments, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent upon third parties to complete many of our contracts. Much of the work performed under for our distributed power generation business is performed by third-party subcontractors we hire. We also rely on third-party equipment manufacturers or suppliers to provide much of the equipment, materials and components used for our distributed power generation projects and wind power business. In limited instances, we may be responsible for any failure by a third-party subcontractor to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations. If we are unable to hire qualified subcontractors or find qualified equipment manufacturers or suppliers, our ability to successfully complete a project could be impaired. If a supplier, manufacturer or subcontractor fails to provide supplies, equipment or services as required under a negotiated contract for any reason, we may be required to source these supplies, equipment or services on a delayed basis or at a higher price than anticipated, which could adversely affect contract profitability. Our use of the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting for our distributed power generation business and multi-deliverable revenue arrangement for our wind turbine business could result in reduction, reversal or an inability to recoznize revenues and profits A substantial portion of our revenues and profits are measured and recognized using the “percentage-of-completion” method of accounting, as discussed in Note 2, “Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies” to our financial statements. Our use of this method results in recognition of revenues and profits ratably over the life of a contract, based generally on the proportion of costs incurred to date to total costs expected to be incurred for the entire project. The effect of revisions to revenues and estimated costs is recorded when the amounts are known or can be reasonably estimated. Such revisions could occur in any period and their effects could be material. Although we have historically made reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion of long-term construction contracts in process, the uncertainties inherent in the estimating process make it possible for actual costs to vary materially from estimates, including reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenues and profits. Such revisions may result from uncertainties risks that include, but are not limited, to (i) engineering design changes; (ii) technical or quality control issues requiring us to use resources to rectify; (iii) changes in costs of components, materials and labor; (iv) difficulties in obtaining government approval; (v) changes in local laws and regulations; (vi) weather delays; and (vii) suppliers or subcontractors failure to perform. We did not have any material cost overruns or resulting losses in 2009. Should we incur cost overruns in performing our distributed power contracts, we will generally negotiate with our customers to modify our construction contracts to account for such overruns and to prevent such incidents during the remainder of that contract. However, if we are unable to accurately estimate and control our construction contract costs and timelines then we could experience overruns, and if we are unable to successfully negotiate modifications to our construction contracts, we would incur losses on our contracts, resulting in decreases in our operating margins and a significant reduction or elimination of our profits. If we do not control our contract costs, we may be unable to maintain positive operating margins or experience operating losses. Substantially all of our sales have involved fixed-price contracts. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price, and therefore, we realize a profit only if we control our costs and prevent cost overruns on the contracts. If our fixed-price contracts are modified, the fixed price is renegotiated and adjusted upwards accordingly. Under our fixed-price contracts, if we are unable to estimate and control costs and/or project timelines, we may incur losses on our contracts, which may result in decreases in our operating margins and in a significant reduction or elimination of our profits. We recognize wind turbine manufacturing revenue under the guidance found in ASU 2009-13 Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangement. The manufacture of wind turbines comprises three stages: (a) manufacture; (b) installation; and (c) quality assurance and warranty. These three stages constitute separate units of accounting. We recognize manufacture and installation stage revenue when we complete manufacture or installation of our turbines and receive notice of customer acceptance. We defer recognition of 10% of wind turbine manufacture revenue, which is recognized on a straight-line basis over a quality assurance and warranty period of 18 months following execution of contracts associated with the sale of our wind turbines. Any delays in our ability to complete various stages of production or delays in notice of acceptance by our customers could prevent us from recognizing revenues and profits in our wind turbine business. Failure by us to successfully defend against potential claims made against us by project owners, suppliers or project subcontractors, or failure by us to recover adequately on potential claims made against project owners, suppliers or subcontractors, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our distributed power generation projects generally involve complex design and engineering, significant procurement of equipment and supplies and construction management. We may encounter difficulties in the design or engineering, equipment and supply delivery, schedule changes and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, that affect our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule or to meet the contractual performance obligations. In addition, we rely on third-party partners, equipment manufacturers and subcontractors to assist us with the completion of our contracts. As such, potential claims involving project owners, suppliers and subcontractors may be brought against us and by us in connection with our project contracts. Potential claims brought against us may include back charges for alleged defective or incomplete work, breaches of warranty and/or late completion of the project work and claims for cancelled projects. The claims and back charges may involve actual damages, as well as contractually agreed upon liquidated sums. These potential claims, if not resolved through negotiation, are often subject to lengthy and expensive litigation or arbitration proceedings. The possible charges associated with these potential claims could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to, and incur costs to comply with, environmental laws. Because we produce air emissions, discharge wastewater, and handle hazardous substances and solid waste at our distributed power generation project sites and wind turbine production facility, we are subject to, and incur costs and liabilities to comply with, environmental laws and regulations. We may incur significant additional costs as those laws and regulations change in the future or if there is an accidental release of pollution or hazardous substances into the environment. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations, all of which may affect our business operations. We have limited business insurance coverage in China. Our business segments are insured up to the requisite minimum amount as required by the relevant PRC laws and regulations. We maintain primary and excess liability insurance, as well as customary workers’ compensation and other insurance as required by relevant PRC laws and regulations. We do not have insurance coverage with regard to property, plant or equipment, nor do we have business interruption or casualty insurance in China. We have determined that the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially applicable terms and the nature of the industry makes it impractical for us to obtain such coverage at this time. Any significant business disruption, litigation or natural disaster could result in our incurring substantial uninsured costs and the diversion of our resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. 16 Risks related to doing business in China Changes in the PRC’s economic, fiscal, monetary, or political policies or factors could materially affect, directly or indirectly, the Company’s operations and shareholders. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and derive substantially all of our revenue from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected to a significant degree by economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. The PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years; however, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. In response to the global economic slowdown and market volatility, however, the PRC government in 2008 and early 2009 lowered interest rates and announced large fiscal stimulus packages to boost the domestic economy, which include RMB4.0 trillion investments in, among other things, airports, highways, railways, power grids and other infrastructure developments, the effects of which cannot yet be fully determined. The PRC government previously implemented a series of measures to slow the pace of growth of the PRC economy by raising interest rates and the deposit reserve rate and issuing administrative guidelines to control lending to certain industries. There is evidence that the PRC government may again be taking measures to slow the pace of growth following the success of the fiscal stimulus packages, including the reduction in bank lending quotas, an increase in the proportion of banks’ assets required to be held in the form of reserves, a reduction in maximum loan-to-valuation ratios for property investment lending and a marginal increase in short-term interest rate. The aggregate effect of these measures may adversely impact the ability of industrial companies and governmental entities to secure bank or other financing for these capital expenditure projects, which could in turn impact our ability to secure new business. In addition, the PRC government, which regulates the power industry in China, has adopted laws related to renewable energy, and has adopted policies for the accelerated development of renewable energy as part of a Development Plan promulgated on August 31, 2007, as discussed in Item 4C — “Information on the Company— Business Overview— Regulation”. Meanwhile, the PRC government has introduced certain policies which may more directly impact our business. For instance, the PRC government has sought to discourage the use of corn as a raw material for industrial use by requiring local governments to limit their approvals of new ethanol projects that process corn. As a result, we have avoided taking on ethanol based distributed power generation system projects. If the government discourages other materials, such as pulp, that are used as inputs in the distributed power generation systems we build, there could be a material adverse effect on our business operations. In September 2009, in response to perceived potential excess capacity in the wind power equipment manufacture sector, the State Council introduced a policy to reduce excess capacity in this sector. Pursuant to this policy, government departments at various levels are required to curb expansion and redundant construction of wind power equipment manufacture projects and financial institutions are required to adjust and manage their credit plans to reflect the PRC’s macroeconomic policies. In addition, pursuant to the Catalogue for the Guidance of Foreign Investment Industries, effective from December 1, 2007, foreign investment in enterprises in the PRC engaging in the manufacture of complete sets or key parts of wind power generation equipment of 1.5 MW or larger is restricted. We believe our existing PRC subsidiaries engaging in wind power generation are not subject to such restrictions on foreign investment. However, we cannot assure you that these restrictions will not be applied to our existing or new subsidiaries in the future. Any adverse change in the economic, political and social conditions or government policies in China, whether they be general or directly related to our business segments, could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business operations and shareholders. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China, regardless of outcome, may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, a majority of our material agreements are governed by PRC law. We and our PRC subsidiaries may not be able to enforce our material agreements, and remedies may not be available outside of the PRC. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in the PRC may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the U.S. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our present or future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC, which could result in misconduct and difficulty in complying with applicable laws and requirements. Our operations are conducted through subsidiary operating companies organized under the laws of the PRC. We acquired these Chinese operating companies in 2008. As privately held companies in the PRC, they have not historically focused on establishing Western-style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as modern banking, computer and other internal control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified internal control employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. See “— Risks Related to Our Business— Investor confidence and the market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted if we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting.” 17 If the PRC does not continue its policy of economic reforms, it could result in an increase in tariffs and trade restrictions on products we produce or sell. The PRC government has been reforming its economic system since the late 1970s. The economy of the PRC has historically been a nationalistic, “planned economy,” meaning it has functioned and produced according to governmental plans and pre-set targets or quotas. However, in recent years, the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership in business enterprises. Our business has benefited greatly from that new outlook. Although we believe that the changes adopted by the PRC government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the PRC, additional changes still need to be made. For example, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC are still owned by government entities. Additionally, governments continue to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. We cannot predict the timing or extent of any future economic reforms that may be proposed. A recent positive economic change has been the PRC’s entry into the World Trade Organization, or the WTO, the global international organization dealing with the rules of trade between nations. Many observers believe that the PRC’s entry will ultimately result in a reduction of tariffs for industrial products, a reduction in trade restrictions and an increase in international trade with China. However, the PRC has not yet fully complied with all of obligations that it must meet prior to being admitted as a full member of the WTO, including fully opening its markets to goods from other countries, currency exchange requirements and other measures designed to ease the current trade imbalance that China has with many of its trading partners. If the scheduled actions to rectify these problems are not completed, trade relations between China and some of its trading partners could be strained. While the majority of our business currently is conducted solely within China, this may have a negative impact on China’s economy generally, which would adversely affect our business. It could also reduce or eliminate any benefits that we hope to achieve by expanding our business internationally. The Chinese government could change its policies toward, or even nationalize, private enterprise, which could reduce or eliminate the interests we hold in our Chinese operating subsidiaries. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activities and decentralization of economic regulation. The Chinese government may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time without notice. Changes in policies by the Chinese government that result in a change of laws, regulations, their interpretation, or the imposition of high levels of taxation, restrictions on currency conversion or imports and sources of supply could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. If nationalization of private enterprise were to occur, it is possible that compensation from the Chinese government would be available to us, however, the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises by the Chinese government could result in the total loss of our investment in China. A decrease in the rate of growth in Chinese industry and the Chinese economy in general may lead to a decrease our revenues because industrial companies in China are our principal current source of revenues. Industrial companies operating in China are the principal current source of our revenues. Our business has benefited in the past from the rapid expansion of China’s industrial activity, which has created additional demand and led to the formation of numerous additional companies that have need for our products and services. China’s industrial expansion has been fueled in large measure by international demand for the low-cost goods that China is able to produce due to labor advantages and other comparative advantages, such as governmental subsidies to offset research and development expenses and taxes and reduced land use/facilities costs for targeted industries. The Chinese economy may not be able to sustain this rate of growth in the future and any reduction in the rate of China’s industrial growth or a shrinking of China’s industrial base could adversely affect our revenues. The resulting increase in competition for customers might also cause erosion of profit margins that we have been able to achieve historically. Any reduction in the prices paid for electricity generated by wind power projects or further regulatory changes in relation to wind projects in China may lead to a decrease in our revenues. Prior to August 2009, prices for electricity generated by wind power generators were generally either established by tender under the PRC central government’s national concession program (for both private and state-owned developers) or negotiated on a case-by-case basis for individual wind projects that were not part of the concession program. In addition, provincial governments at times established various local pricing mechanisms for wind projects. NDRC regulations previously required that 70% of the value of turbines installed on PRC wind farms be manufactured in China. However, in July 2009, the NDRC issued a new policy designed to increase the profitability of PRC wind farms by providing for fixed benchmark feed-in tariffs for new onshore wind farms established after August 1, 2009. The benchmark feed-in tariffs, which are determined based on local project construction conditions and the availability of wind resources in the area in which the wind farm is established, range from a low of RMB0.51/kWh for high wind resource areas to RMB0.61/kWh for low wind resource areas. In addition, the local content requirement was removed in November 2009. Any reduction in the prices paid for electricity generated by wind power projects or further regulatory changes in relation to wind projects in China may reduce demand for our wind turbines or lead to increased competition from foreign competitors. Recently adopted merger and acquisition regulations relating to acquisitions of assets and equity interests of Chinese companies by foreign persons may subject our prior acquisitions to governmental review or make it difficult for us to complete future business combinations or acquisitions. On September 8, 2006, new regulations relating to acquisitions of assets and equity interests of Chinese companies by foreign persons, or the M&A regulations, which were adopted by MOFCOM and several other governmental agencies, took effect. We completed our acquisition of our Chinese subsidiaries in January 2008. While we do not believe that the acquisition was subject to the M&A regulations, the regulations contain a number of ambiguities and uncertainties that will be resolved only with the passage of time and application of the regulations. It is possible that the future interpretations of the M&A regulations will differ from current interpretations and that under such future interpretations some aspects of our acquisition transaction may be found to be subject to the regulations. It is not possible to know the effect of such a determination, but it could conceivably include invalidating the transaction in its entirety. Were that to occur, it is possible that we would lose our ownership interests in GaoKe, perhaps without any compensation to be paid, which would substantially reduce the value of our common shares. In addition, we intend to grow our operations through acquisitions and business combinations with other companies, including companies in China, and such acquisitions and business combinations may be subject to the M&A regulations and related governmental approvals. To the extent that the M&A regulations apply, we expect that transactions subject to compliance with the M&A Regulations will be more time consuming to complete than before the M&A regulations took effect, will be more costly for the Chinese parties (making them less attractive), and will permit the government much more extensive opportunities for evaluation and control over the terms of the transaction. Therefore, it may not be possible to complete certain desirable acquisitions in China because the terms of the transaction may not satisfy the criteria used in the governmental approval process or, even if approved, if they are not consummated within the time permitted by the approvals granted. 18 A change in priority for local governments or significant reduction in government subsidies or incentives could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from projects in cooperation with local governments, which are dependent on government funding. In addition, the local government approval process is often slow, unpredictable and subject to many factors outside of our control. For example, we have applied for but not yet received government rebates representing 45% of the Evatech acquisition price. Curtailments, delays, changes in leadership, shifts in priorities, or general reductions in funding could delay or reduce our revenues. Funding difficulties experienced by local governments could also cause those institutions to be more resistant to change and could slow investments in energy projects which could harm our business. In addition, demand for some of our products is influenced by government incentives aimed to promote greater use of these products, technologies and potential energy sources. In many instances, such as in the distributed power market, applications for alternative energy products and technologies may not be commercially viable (or would be significantly less attractive) without these government incentives. The scope of the government incentives depends, to a large extent, on political and policy priorities in a given country, which could lead to a significant reduction in or a discontinuation of the support for these products, technologies or potential energy sources as the political or policy environment changes over time. A significant reduction in the scope of government incentive programs would have a materially adverse effect on the demand for some of our products and technologies, as well as our results of operations. Under previous PRC policy, issued in April 2008, enterprises that manufactured 1.2 MW or larger wind turbines were eligible to apply for government refunds on import tariffs and import value-added tax for designated parts and components and materials for these turbines. The April 2008 policy was repealed as of July 2009. Under current PRC policy, issued in August 2009; enterprises that manufacture 1.2 MW wind turbines or 2.0 MW or larger wind turbines or designated supporting parts for complete units of 1.2 MW or larger wind turbines (including blades, gearboxes, generators, control systems and converters) and sell designated quantities of these turbines or parts during the year are eligible to apply for an exemption from import tariffs and import value-added tax for parts, components and materials designated under the policy. Enterprises that import 2.5 MW or larger wind turbines remain eligible under the existing regulations to apply for an exemption on import tariffs and import value-added tax with respect to these turbines. We intend to apply for this exemption with respect to parts and components for our 2.0 MW and larger wind turbines. We are a holding company that depends on dividend payments from our subsidiaries for funding. We are a holding company established in the British Virgin Islands and operate all of our business and operations through our subsidiaries in China. Therefore, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and to service our indebtedness depends upon dividends that we receive from our subsidiaries in China. If our subsidiaries incur indebtedness or losses, such indebtedness or loss may impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us. As a result, our ability to pay dividends and to service our indebtedness would be restricted. Regulations in China currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Each of our PRC subsidiaries, including wholly foreign-owned enterprises and domestic companies, is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves or statutory reserve fund until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. As of December 31, 2009, the accumulated reserves with respect to GaoKe, GaoKe Design, LICEG, Jinxiang and Ruixiang amounted to RMB30 million, RMB0.9 million, nil, nil and nil respectively, and the retained earnings (deficit) amounted to RMB674.0 million, RMB11.0 million, RMB2.8 million, a deficit of RMB4.9 million and RMB51.0 million respectively. Our statutory reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, restrictive covenants in bank credit facilities, joint venture agreements or other agreements that we or our subsidiaries enter into in the future might also restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to make contributions to us and our ability to receive distributions. We believe that the present and anticipated retained earnings of our subsidiaries will be sufficient to enable them to pay dividends to us in amounts that we require. However, in the future, these restrictions on the availability and usage of our major source of funding could impact our ability to fund our operations and to service our indebtedness. 19 The dividends we receive from our wholly-owned operating subsidiaries and our global income may be subject to PRC tax under the new PRC tax law, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law enacted by the National People’s Congress of China, or the new PRC tax law, and the Implementation Regulations of the Enterprise Income Tax Law, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and is subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its global income, and “de facto management bodies” is defined as the bodies that have material and overall management and control over the business, personnel, accounts and properties of the enterprise. If the PRC tax authorities subsequently determine that we and our subsidiaries established outside of China should be classified as a resident enterprise, then our global income including the dividends we receive from our subsidiaries incorporated in China will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25%, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The new PRC tax law and its implementation regulations further provide that dividends distributed between qualified resident enterprises, which means the investment income derived by a resident enterprise from direct investment in other resident enterprises (other than investment income from stock issued publicly by resident enterprises and traded on stock exchanges where the holding period is less than 12 months) are exempt from the enterprise income tax. As the term “resident enterprises” needs further clarification and interpretation, we cannot assure you that if we and our subsidiaries established outside of China are deemed as resident enterprises, the dividends distributed by our subsidiaries incorporated in China as foreign-invested enterprises to their direct shareholders would be regarded as dividends distributed between qualified resident enterprises, and be exempt from the enterprise income tax. In addition, even if we and our subsidiaries established outside of China are not deemed to be resident enterprises, they still may be regarded as a “non-resident enterprise,” and under the new PRC tax law and its implementation regulations, dividends payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investor who is a non-resident enterprise will be subject to a 10% withholding tax unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. The direct shareholders of our subsidiaries incorporated in China as foreign-invested enterprises are located in Hong Kong. According to the Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Arrangement on Avoiding Double Taxation or Evasion of Taxation on Income agreed between China and Hong Kong in August 2006, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its direct holding company in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of no more than 5%, if the foreign investor owns directly at least 25% of the shares of the foreign-invested enterprise. The imposition of withholding tax on dividends payable by our PRC subsidiaries to us, or the imposition of PRC tax on our global income as a “resident enterprise” registered outside the PRC under the new PRC tax law could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The termination and expiration or unavailability of preferential tax treatments once available to us may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. GaoKe Energy registered as a foreign invested enterprise, or FIE, in August 2006, entitling it to a 100% exemption from PRC income tax for two years starting with the year ended December 31, 2007, and a 50% exemption from PRC income tax for three years starting with the year ended December 31, 2009. While the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the new EIT Law, eliminated the preferential tax treatment available to FIEs, the preferential tax treatment has been grandfathered for FIEs registered prior to March 16, 2007, including GaoKe Energy. As such, GaoKe Energy was not subject to income taxes in 2007 or 2008. Under the new EIT law, GaoKe Energy should be subject to income tax at a rate of 12.5% for 2009, 2010, and 2011 before being subject to an income tax rate of 25% in 2012. However, GaoKe Energy was granted a full exemption from PRC income tax for 2009 by the relevant local state tax bureau. As a result, no provision for income taxes was made for GaoKe Energy in 2009. Although we believe this tax exemption by the local state tax bureau is permissible, such an exemption may be subject to discretionary interpretation and enforcement by central government PRC tax authorities. If central government PRC tax authorities deem the exemption from PRC income tax to be not permissible, we may be required to pay back taxes owed which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Foreign exchange regulations in the PRC may affect our ability to pay dividends in foreign currency or conduct other foreign exchange business. We currently receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. RMB is not presently a freely convertible currency, and the restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside the PRC or to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars. The PRC government, through the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, regulates conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign invested enterprises, such as our operating subsidiaries, are required to apply for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates” and to renew those certificates annually. However, even with that certification, conversion of currency in the “capital account” (e.g. capital items such as direct investments or loans) still requires the approval of SAFE. There is no assurance that SAFE approval will be obtained, and if it is not, it could impede our business activities and restrict our ability to pay dividends should we determine to do so in the future. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005 along with related procedural guidance in January 2007 requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equity of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” Under this public notice, PRC residents who are shareholders and/or beneficial owners of such offshore special purpose companies were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. We have requested our shareholders and/or beneficial owners who are subject to the registration requirements under the SAFE notice to register with the local SAFE branch. Failure of these shareholders and/or beneficial owners to register with the local SAFE branch as required by the SAFE notice or failure of future shareholders of our Company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE notice may subject such shareholders and/or beneficial owners to fines and other government actions and may also limit our ability to fund our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends, if any, to our Company or otherwise adversely affect our business. 20 The PRC Labor Contract Law and its implementing rules may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. On September 18, 2008, the State Council adopted the implementing rules for the Labor Contract Law, which became effective upon adoption. This new labor law and its implementing rules have reinforced the protection for employees, who, under the existing PRC Labor Law, already have certain rights, such as the right to have written labor contracts, the right to enter into labor contracts with no fixed terms under specific circumstances, the right to receive overtime wages when working overtime, and the right to terminate or alter terms in the labor contracts. In addition, the Labor Contract Law and its implementing rules have made some amendments to the existing PRC Labor Law and added some clauses that could increase cost of labor to employers. For example, under the Labor Contract Law, employers are required to base their decisions to dismiss employees on seniority, as opposed to merit, under certain circumstances. As the Labor Contract Law and its implementing rules are relatively new, there remains significant uncertainty as to their interpretation and application by the PRC government authorities. In the event that we decide to significantly reduce our workforce, the Labor Contract Law and its implementing rules could adversely affect our ability to effect these changes cost-effectively or in the manner we desire, which could lead to a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. We face risks related to health epidemics, other catastrophes or acts of terrorism, which could disrupt our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by an outbreak of the avian flu, swine flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, another health epidemic, or catastrophe or an act of terrorism. In recent years, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. In April 2009, influenza A, or H1N1, a new strain of flu virus commonly referred to as “swine flu,” was first discovered in North America and quickly spread to other parts of the world, including China. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, swine flu or other adverse public health developments in China or elsewhere in Asia may have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. For instance, an outbreak of avian flu, a recurrence of SARS, or any other epidemic may lead to health or other government regulations requiring temporary closure of our business or the businesses of our subcontractors, suppliers or customers. In addition, terrorist attacks, a significant earthquake or other geological disturbance in any of China’s more populated cities and financial centers could severely disrupt the Chinese economy or cause temporary restrictions on our business or the businesses of our subcontractors, suppliers or customers, which would severely disrupt our business operations and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Risks relating to Our Shares Our share price is volatile and you might not be able to resell your securities at or above the price you have paid. The price at which our common shares had traded has been highly volatile, with a high and low sales price of US$21.04 and US$3.00, respectively, from January 1, 2009 through March 30, 2010. You might not be able to sell the shares of our common shares at or above the price you have paid. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the performance of its listed companies. Moreover, only a limited number of our shares are traded each day, which could increase the volatility of the price of our shares. These market fluctuations might cause our share price to fall regardless of our performance. The market price of our common shares might fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in securities analysts’ expectations; · announcements by our competitors or us of significant new products, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; 21 · regulatory developments in China and our other target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; · conditions and trends in our industry; · general market, economic, industry and political conditions; · changes in market values of comparable companies, particularly those that focus on the China market; · additions or departures of key personnel; · stock market price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels; · future sales of equity or debt securities, including sales which dilute existing investors; and · fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and RMB. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common shares, as the future sale of a substantial amount of outstanding shares in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common shares. On January 21, 2010, we entered into a securities purchase agreement with certain institutional investors pursuant to which we sold such investors 5,777,932 of our common shares, together with two series of warrants to purchase an additional 2,888,968 shares. 4,751,130 of these shares are freely tradable, and we have undertaken to register the remainder of these shares and the shares issuable on exercise of the warrants on a registration statement, which we have agreed is to become effective no later than 120 days after the issuance date of these securities. The registration of these securities for resale will be in addition to the registration of 1,504,183 shares issuable upon exercise of warrants that we issued in June 2009. The market price of our common shares could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common shares in the market or the perception that these sales could occur created by significant market overhang. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. We have a substantial, but not majority, shareholder, whose interests may not be aligned with the interest of our other shareholders. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Jinxiang Lu, beneficially owns approximately 24.8% of our outstanding common shares. Accordingly, Mr. Lu may exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of a majority of the directors and the determination of significant corporate actions. In addition, under the terms of the purchase agreement dated April 14, 2007 pursuant to which we acquired our Chinese operating companies, we are obligated to issue an aggregate of up to 9,000,0000 additional shares to Mr. Lu if we reach certain levels of after-tax profit for each year from 2007 through 2012. Mr. Lu’s right to receive these shares if we achieve these levels of after-tax profit does not require his continued employment by our Company. We satisfied the after-tax profit minimum for 2007, 2008 and 2009 and issued 1,000,000 shares in July 2008 and July 2009, respectively, which are included in the percentage ownership figure above. Pursuant to an agreement between Mr. Lu and Mr. Lin, our Chief Operating Officer and Director, Mr. Lu will transfer 5% of any of these additional incentive shares issued to him to Mr. Lin. Mr. Lin beneficially owns approximately 4.0% of our outstanding common shares. If all of the remaining 6,000,000 additional shares are issued to Mr. Lu, his percentage ownership, along with Mr. Lin’s percentage ownership of our shares would increase significantly. The concentration of ownership by Mr. Lu and Mr. Lin may preclude actions being taken even if supported by our other shareholders. In addition, it may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of any sale of our company. With respect to related party transactions, Mr. Lu, along with his spouse, hold an aggregate 49.0% interest in GaoKe Design, an operating company which receives subcontracting work related to our distributed power generation projects. GaoKe Energy holds the remaining 51.0% interest. For more information on this related party transaction, please see Item 4.A – History and Development of the Company and Item 7.B – “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Related Party Transactions,” of this Annual Report on Form 20-F. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain SEC rules mandating that certain information be made available to shareholders of United States public companies. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: · the rules requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; · the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations with respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act; · Regulation FD precluding selective disclosures of material information; and 22 · the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders file public prompt reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short swing” trading transactions (i.e., a purchase and sale, or a sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, our shareholders will not be afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. You may experience dilution due to future sales of common shares or convertible debt or the issuances of common shares upon conversion of outstanding warrants. We have reserved 2,000,000 shares of our common shares for issuance pursuant to awards granted under the 2007 Equity Plan. As of December 31, 2009, there were options outstanding to acquire 1,592,939 shares under our Company’s employee share option plan, with 407,061 shares available to be granted and 581,539 of these options were exercisable. We anticipate requiring additional cash resources to finance our continued growth or other future developments. To satisfy our financing needs in the future, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities. The sale of additional equity securities, including additional warrants, or convertible debt securities, could result in dilution to our shareholders. In addition, the exercise of our outstanding warrants issued in June 2009 and January 2010 to certain institutional investors could result in dilution to our existing common shareholders. The warrants issued in June 2009 contain full-ratchet anti-dilution rights for a period of two years from their date of issuance. After the expiration of this two years period, the June 2009 warrants are subject to standard weighted-average anti-dilution protection. The warrants issued in January 2010 are subject to full ratchet anti-dilution rights until we have received an aggregate of $65 million in proceeds from the sale of securities (net of any proceeds that are repaid or returned by us). Once we have received an aggregate of $65 million from the sale of securities, the January 2010 warrants are subject to adjustment on the basis of weighted average anti-dilution. No adjustments for any such dilutive issuance will be made to the January 2010 warrants following the third anniversary of the issuance date of those warrants, regardless of the amount of proceeds received by us from the sale of securities. As a result of these anti-dilution rights, if we issue or grant in the future any rights to purchase any of our common shares, or other security convertible into our common shares, for an effective per share price less than the exercise price then in effect with respect to the June 2009 warrants, the exercise of all unexercised June 2009 warrants will be reduced to equal such lower price for the two year period following there issuance and, thereafter, weighted average anti-dilution rights will apply. The exercise price of the January 2010 warrants will be reduced if we issue shares or rights to acquire shares at less than the applicable exercise price during the three year period from the date the January 2010 warrants were issued, such reduction will be either to equal to such lower issuance price or to an amount based on an weighted average price formula, pursuant to the conditions discussed above. The foregoing adjustments to the exercise price of the warrants will not apply to certain exempt issuances, including issuances pursuant to employee share option plans. Restrictive covenants in our outstanding warrants and under the related Securities Purchase Agreements may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions. Our outstanding warrants issued in June 2009 would require us to make an downward adjustment to the exercise price of the warrants in the event of any distribution of our cash or property, including any cash dividend. Further, the Securities Purchase Agreement pursuant to the which the warrants were issued contains a number of covenants, including a covenant that requires us to allow the purchasers of the warrants to participate in future offers of equity or equity equivalents until June 2011 (two years from the date the warrants were issued) subject to an exception for certain bona fide underwritten public offerings and offers and sales of certain “Excluded Securities” (e.g., certain shares issued for compensatory purposes). Our outstanding warrants issued in January 2010 also require us to make certain downward adjustments to the exercise price of the warrants in the event of any distribution of our cash or our property, including any cash dividend. Further, the Securities Purchase Agreement pursuant to which the January 2010 warrants were issued prohibits us from issuing any additional equity interests until we have registered for resale all of the securities that we issued to institutional investors in our January 2010 placement of securities. Our officers and directors have limited experience in public company reporting and financial accounting, which could impair our ability to satisfy public company filing requirements and increase our securities compliance costs. Our officers and directors have limited experience as officers and directors of a publicly traded company, or in complying with the regulatory requirements applicable to a public company. As a result, we could have difficulty satisfying the regulatory requirements applicable to public companies, which could adversely affect the market for our common shares. At present, we primarily rely upon outside experts to advise us on matters relating to financial accounting and public company reporting. While we believe that it will be possible to satisfy our public company reporting requirements through the use of third party experts, our general and administrative costs will remain higher to the extent our officers alone are not able to satisfy our public company reporting requirements. 23 Our U.S. shareholders may not be able to obtain jurisdiction over our officers or directors or access to our assets located in the PRC in the event of a lawsuit and, as a result, may not be able to enforce their legal rights against us and/or our officers and directors. Because most of our officers and directors reside outside of the U.S., it may be difficult for U.S. shareholders to acquire jurisdiction over these persons in the event of a lawsuit against us and/or our officers and directors. It also is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the U.S. and the PRC would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of federal securities laws against us or our officers and directors. Furthermore, because substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC, it would also be extremely difficult to access those assets to satisfy an award entered against us in U.S. court. Moreover, we have been advised that the PRC does not have treaties with the U.S. providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the U.S. to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under U.S. federal securities laws. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur higher general and administrative costs as a result of being a public company. As a result of our business combination transactions and listing on NASDAQ in 2008, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur a significantly higher level of legal, accounting and other expenses than we did before we became a public company. As a public company, we are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. In addition, SOX, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies listed on U.S. national stock exchanges, including foreign private issuers such as us. The U.S. securities laws and related rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made certain activities more time-consuming and costly. We will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with our obligations as a public company including complying with the internal control over financial reporting obligations of Section 404 of SOX. Our reporting obligations as a public company will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, so the liquidity of your investment depends on your ability to sell your shares at an acceptable price. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Instead, we expect to apply earnings toward the further expansion and development of our business. Thus, the liquidity of your investment is dependent upon your ability to sell shares at an acceptable price, rather than receiving an income stream from it. Fluctuations in the market price of our shares may limit your ability to realize any value from your investment, including recovering the initial purchase price. Certain provisions of our memorandum and articles of association may have the effect of preventing an acquisition or tender offer which might be viewed by our shareholders to be in their best interests. Certain provisions of our memorandum and articles of association, including our advance notice requirement for shareholder proposals to be brought before our annual meeting of shareholders and restrictions on the ability of our shareholders to call a meeting, are designed in part to discourage any tender offer or other attempt to gain control of our company in a transaction that is not approved by our board of directors. However, to the extent these provisions discourage a change of control or tender offer for all or part of our authorized shares, they may have the effect of preventing an acquisition or tender offer which might be viewed by shareholders to be in their best interests. These provisions may also serve to insulate incumbent management from change and to discourage not only sudden or hostile takeover attempts, but also any attempts to acquire control that are not approved by our board of directors. We are organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands and, because the rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have fewer protections as a shareholder than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibility of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are governed by the common law of the British Virgin Islands and the Business Companies Act. The common law of the British Virgin Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the British Virgin Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on courts in the British Virgin Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the British Virgin Islands has a less prescriptive body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. BVI law also provides greater restrictions on the abilities of shareholders to initiate derivative actions than are provided under the laws of many U.S. jurisdictions. 24 You may not be able initiate shareholder derivative actions in U.S. courts and, in addition, British Virgin Islands courts are less likely to enforce against us judgments of courts in the U.S., thereby potentially depriving our shareholders of the ability to protect their interests. Shareholders of British Virgin Islands companies may not be able to initiate shareholder derivative actions in a federal court of the United States. The circumstances in which any such action may be brought, and the procedures and defenses that may be available in respect to any such action, may result in the rights of shareholders of a British Virgin Islands company, such as ours, being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Accordingly, shareholders may have fewer alternatives available to them if they believe that corporate wrongdoing has occurred. The British Virgin Islands courts are also unlikely to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts in the United States based on certain liability provisions of U.S. securities law; or to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands, based on certain liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the British Virgin Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the British Virgin Islands will generally recognize and enforce the non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. This means that even if shareholders were to sue us successfully, they might not be able to recover anything to make up for the losses suffered as the basis for a claim at common law in the British Virgin Islands unless certain conditions were satisfied. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our common shares. Based on the composition of our assets and income and our current expectations, we believe that we were not a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes with respect to our 2009 taxable year and we do not intend or anticipate becoming a PFIC for 2010 or any future taxable year. However, the determination of our PFIC status is dependent upon the composition of our income and assets and, in addition, we must make a separate determination at the close of each taxable year as to whether we are a PFIC. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2010, or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The market value of our assets will be determined based on the market price of our common shares, which is likely to fluctuate. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. person held our shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. person. See Section 10E. Additional Information, Taxation —United States —Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 