ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Corporation is subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Many of these risks are outside of the Corporation’s direct control. In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference into this report, readers should carefully consider the following important factors which, among others, could materially impact the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s earnings are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions, including credit risk and interest rate risk. The Corporation’s business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States and, in particular, the states where it has significant operations, including Wisconsin, Arizona, Indiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Kansas and Florida. M&I Bank FSB, a subsidiary of the Corporation, is headquartered in Nevada, but its activities are primarily outside of Nevada and it has no significant exposure to economic conditions in that state. The general business and economic conditions described above include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, the strength of the U.S. and local economies, real estate values, consumer spending, borrowing and saving habits, all of which are beyond the Corporation’s control. For example, an economic downturn, increase in unemployment or higher interest rates could decrease the demand for loans and other products and services and/or result in a deterioration in credit quality and/or loan performance and collectability. Nonpayment of loans could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Higher interest rates also could increase the Corporation’s cost to borrow funds and increase the rate the Corporation pays on deposits. The Corporation’s real estate loans expose the Corporation to increased credit risks. A substantial portion of the Corporation’s loan and lease portfolio consists of real estate-related loans, including construction and residential and commercial mortgage loans. As a result, the deterioration in the U.S. real estate markets, along with the deterioration in the U.S. economy as a whole, has led to an increase in non-performing loans and charge-offs, and the Corporation has had to increase its allowance for loan and lease losses. Further deterioration in the commercial or residential real estate markets and in the U.S. economy would increase the Corporation’s exposure to real estate-related credit risk and cause the Corporation to further increase its allowance for loan and lease losses, all of which would have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Various factors may cause the Corporation’s allowance for loan and lease losses to increase. The Corporation’s allowance for loan and lease losses represents management’s estimate of probable losses inherent in the Corporation’s loan and lease portfolio. Management evaluates the allowance each quarter to determine that it is adequate to absorb these inherent losses. This evaluation is supported by a methodology that identifies estimated losses based on assessments of individual problem loans and historical loss patterns of homogeneous loan pools. In addition, environmental factors unique to each measurement date are also considered, including economic conditions in certain geographic or industry segments of the loan portfolio, economic trends, risk profile and portfolio composition. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses is highly subjective and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, many of which are outside of the Corporation’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. Any increase in the allowance for possible loan and lease losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and would have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. A failure by the Corporation to maintain required levels of capital could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation. Banking regulations require the Corporation to maintain adequate levels of capital, in order to support its operations and fund outstanding liabilities. Furthermore, each of the Corporation’s subsidiary banks is required to maintain specific capital levels. If any of the subsidiary banks fails to maintain the required capital levels, the subsidiary banks could be subject to various sanctions by federal regulators that could adversely impact the 10 Table of Contents Corporation. Such sanctions could potentially include, without limitation, the termination of deposit insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, limitations on the subsidiary banks’ ability to pay dividends to the Corporation and the issuance of a capital directive by a federal regulatory authority requiring an increase in capital. The Corporation’s ability and the ability of its subsidiary banks to raise additional capital, if needed, may be impaired by changes and trends in the capital markets that are outside the Corporation’s control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Corporation or its subsidiary banks will be able to raise additional capital, if needed on terms acceptable to the Corporation or its subsidiary banks. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) was signed into law in 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the United States Department of the Treasury (the “UST”) was granted the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. The UST announced a Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”) under the EESA pursuant to which has purchased and will continue to purchase senior preferred stock in participating financial institutions. On November 14, 2008, the Corporation entered into a Letter Agreement, and the related Securities Purchase Agreement—Standard Terms attached thereto, with the UST providing for the issuance to the UST of the Corporation’s Senior Preferred Stock, Series B and a warrant to purchase shares of the Corporation’s common stock at a specified price. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”) was signed into law. The purpose of the ARRA is to make supplemental appropriations for job preservation and creation, infrastructure investment, energy efficiency and science, assistance to the unemployed, and state and local fiscal stabilization. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that these legislative initiatives will have on the financial markets or on the Corporation. The failure of these programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of the Corporation’s common stock. The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Corporation. The Corporation’s ability to engage in funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and failure of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Corporation has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, insurers, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even questions or rumors about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Corporation or other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, the Corporation’s credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral it holds cannot be relied upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of exposure of the Corporation. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect the Corporation’s results of operations. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for over a year. Recently, this volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels, and in many cases has produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to the underlying financial strength of those issuers. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that such conditions will not have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents The Corporation’s stock price can be volatile. The Corporation’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, including the factors described elsewhere in these Risk Factors and the following additional factors: • actual or anticipated variations in the Corporation’s quarterly results; • changes or contemplated changes in government regulations; • unanticipated losses or gains due to unexpected events, including losses or gains on securities held for investment purposes; • credit quality ratings; • new technology or services offered by the Corporation’s competitors; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Corporation or its competitors; • changes in accounting policies or practices; or • failure to successfully integrate the Corporation’s acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from the Corporation’s acquisitions. Changes in the Corporation’s credit ratings could adversely affect the Corporation’s liquidity and financial condition. The credit ratings of the Corporation and its subsidiaries are important factors in the Corporation’s ability to access certain types of liquidity. A downgrade in the credit ratings of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries could potentially increase the cost of debt, limit the Corporation’s access to capital markets, require the Corporation to post collateral, or negatively impact the Corporation’s profitability. Furthermore, a downgrade of the credit rating of securities issued by the Corporation or its subsidiaries could adversely affect the ability of the holders to sell those securities. Sales or other dilution of the Corporation’s equity may adversely affect the market price of the Corporation’s common stock. In connection with its participation in the CPP, the Corporation issued preferred securities and a warrant representing the right to purchase the Corporation’s common stock. The market price of the Corporation’s common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant in the market. If the warrant is exercised, the issuance of additional common stock would dilute the ownership interest of the Corporation’s existing shareholders. Terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts and natural disasters could negatively affect the Corporation’s business and financial condition. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts (including conflict in the Middle East), natural disasters, and the actions taken by the U.S. and other governments in response to such events, could disrupt business operations and negatively impact general business and economic conditions in the U.S. If terrorist activity, acts of war, other international hostilities or natural disasters disrupt business operations, trigger technology delays or failures, or damage physical facilities of the Corporation, its customers or service providers, or cause an overall economic decline, the financial condition and operating results of the Corporation could be materially adversely affected. The potential for future occurrences of these events has created many economic and political uncertainties that could seriously harm the Corporation’s business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. The Corporation’s earnings also are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies, which could affect repayment of loans and thereby materially adversely affect the Corporation. The policies of the Federal Reserve Board impact the Corporation significantly. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of financial instruments the Corporation holds. Those policies determine to a significant extent the Corporation’s cost of funds for lending and investing. Changes in those policies are beyond the Corporation’s control and are difficult to predict. 12 Table of Contents Federal Reserve Board policies can affect the Corporation’s borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve Board could reduce the demand for a borrower’s products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower’s earnings and ability to repay its loan, which could materially adversely affect the Corporation. The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive, which could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation operates in a highly competitive environment in the products and services the Corporation offers and the markets in which the Corporation serves. The competition among financial services providers to attract and retain customers is intense. Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor’s new products, especially offerings that provide cost savings to the customer. Some of the Corporation’s competitors may be better able to provide a wider range of products and services over a greater geographic area. The Corporation believes the banking and financial services industry will become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continued consolidation of the industry. Technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. Also, investment banks and insurance companies are competing in more banking businesses such as syndicated lending and consumer banking. Many of the Corporation’s competitors are subject to fewer regulatory constraints and have lower cost structures. The Corporation expects the consolidation of the banking and financial services industry to result in larger, better-capitalized companies offering a wide array of financial services and products. Federal and state agency regulation could increase the Corporation’s cost structures or have other negative effects on the Corporation. The Corporation and M&I LLC, their subsidiary banks and many of their non-bank subsidiaries are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is designed primarily to protect consumers, depositors and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways including limiting the types of financial services and products the Corporation may offer, increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products and/or increasing the Corporation’s cost structures. Also, the Corporation’s failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies and damage to its reputation. The Corporation is subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities, which, if not resolved in the Corporation’s favor, could adversely affect the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. In the normal course of business, the Corporation and its affiliates are routinely subject to examinations and challenges from federal and state tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments it has made and the businesses in which it is engaged. Recently, federal and state taxing authorities have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base, apportionment and tax credit planning. The challenges made by tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in the Corporation’s favor, they could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could result in a loss of income to the Corporation. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks at one or both ends of the transaction. For example, consumers can now pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. 13 Table of Contents Maintaining or increasing the Corporation’s market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services and other factors, and the Corporation’s failure to achieve such acceptance and approval could harm its market share. The Corporation’s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its products and services to evolving industry standards and to control expenses. There is increasing pressure on financial services companies to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce the Corporation’s net interest margin and revenues from its fee-based products and services. In addition, the Corporation’s success depends in part on its ability to generate significant levels of new business in its existing markets and in identifying and penetrating new markets. Growth rates for card-based payment transactions and other product markets may not continue at recent levels. Further, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including Internet-based services, could require the Corporation to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing products and services or render the Corporation’s existing products obsolete. The Corporation may not successfully introduce new products and services, achieve market acceptance of its products and services, develop and maintain loyal customers and/or break into targeted markets. The Corporation and M&I LLC rely on dividends from their subsidiaries for most of their revenue, and the banking subsidiaries hold a significant portion of their assets indirectly. The Corporation and M&I LLC are separate and distinct legal entities from their subsidiaries. They receive substantially all of their revenue from dividends from their subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on the Corporation’s common stock and interest on the Corporation’s and M&I LLC’s debt. The payment of dividends by a subsidiary is subject to federal law restrictions and to the laws of the subsidiary’s state of incorporation. Furthermore, a parent company’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In addition, the Corporation’s bank and savings association subsidiaries hold a significant portion of their mortgage loan and investment portfolios indirectly through their ownership interests in direct and indirect subsidiaries. The Corporation depends on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties, and inaccurate or incomplete information could negatively impact the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, the Corporation may rely on information provided to it by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. The Corporation may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to a business, the Corporation may assume that the customer’s audited financial statements conform to generally accepted accounting principles and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. The Corporation may also rely on the audit report covering those financial statements. The Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent it relies on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or that are materially misleading. An interruption or breach in security of the Corporation’s or the Corporation’s third party service providers’ communications and information technologies could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business. The Corporation relies heavily on communications and information technology to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Corporation’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. Despite the Corporation’s policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of such a failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such events will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Corporation’s information systems could damage the Corporation’s reputation, result in a loss of customers or customer business, subject the Corporation to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Corporation to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents In addition, the Corporation relies on third-party service providers for a substantial portion of its communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of these third-party service providers experiences financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in the Corporation’s relationships with them, the Corporation may be required to locate alternative sources of these services. There can be no assurance that the Corporation could negotiate terms as favorable to the Corporation or obtain services with similar functionality as it currently has without the expenditure of substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect the Corporation’s business. The Corporation’s accounting policies and methods are the basis of how the Corporation reports its financial condition and results of operations, and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. The Corporation’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the Corporation records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods in order to ensure that they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment as to the most appropriate manner in which to record and report the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in the Corporation’s reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. The Corporation has identified three accounting policies as being “critical” to the presentation of its financial condition and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective and/or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. These critical accounting policies relate to: (1) the allowance for loan and lease losses, (2) income taxes, and (3) fair value measurements. Because of the inherent uncertainty of estimates about these matters, no assurance can be given that the application of alternative policies or methods might not result in the Corporation’s reporting materially different amounts. Changes in accounting standards could adversely affect the Corporation’s reported financial results. The bodies that set accounting standards for public companies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the Securities and Exchange Commission and others, periodically change or revise existing interpretations of the accounting and reporting standards that govern the way that the Corporation reports its financial condition and results of operations. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact the Corporation’s reported financial results. In some cases, the Corporation could be required to apply a new or revised accounting standard, or a new or revised interpretation of an accounting standard, retroactively, which could have a negative impact on reported results or result in the restatement of the Corporation’s financial statements for prior periods. The Corporation has an acquisition program, which involves risks related to integration of acquired companies or businesses and the potential for the dilution of the value of the Corporation’s stock. The Corporation regularly explores opportunities to acquire banking institutions and other financial services providers. The Corporation cannot predict the number, size or timing of future acquisitions. The Corporation typically does not publicly comment on a possible acquisition or business combination until it has signed a definitive agreement for the transaction. Once the Corporation has signed a definitive agreement, transactions of this type are generally subject to regulatory approvals and other customary conditions. There can be no assurance the Corporation will receive such regulatory approvals without unexpected delays or conditions or that such conditions will be timely met to the Corporation’s satisfaction, or at all. Difficulty in integrating an acquired company or business may cause the Corporation not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. Specifically, the integration process could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss of customers and key employees, the disruption of the Corporation’s business or the business of the acquired company, or 15 Table of Contents otherwise adversely affect the Corporation’s ability to maintain existing relationships with clients, employees and suppliers or to enter into new business relationships. The Corporation may not be able to successfully leverage the combined product offerings to the combined customer base. These factors could contribute to the Corporation not achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition within the desired time frames, if at all. Future acquisitions could require the Corporation to issue stock, to use substantial cash or liquid assets or to incur debt. In such cases, the value of the Corporation stock could be diluted and the Corporation could become more susceptible to economic downturns and competitive pressures. The Corporation is dependent on senior management, and the loss of the services of any of the Corporation’s senior executive officers could cause the Corporation’s business to suffer. The Corporation’s continued success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of its senior management. The loss of services of any of the Corporation’s senior executive officers could cause the Corporation’s business to suffer. In addition, the Corporation’s success depends in part upon senior management’s ability to implement the Corporation’s business strategy. The Corporation may be a defendant in a variety of litigation and other actions, which may have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. The Corporation and its subsidiaries may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation arising out of the Corporation’s business. The Corporation’s insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it, and any claims asserted against the Corporation, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm the Corporation’s reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed the Corporation’s insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, operating results and financial condition and cash flows. In addition, the Corporation may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may the Corporation be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. If the Corporation’s share distribution and transactions related to the Separation do not qualify as tax-free distributions or reorganizations under the Internal Revenue Code, then the Corporation and the Corporation’s shareholders may be responsible for payment of significant U.S. federal income taxes. In transactions related to the Separation, old M&I distributed shares of its common stock to effect the Separation. If the share distribution does not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, Metavante would recognize a taxable gain that would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to Metavante. Metavante would be primarily liable for these taxes and the Corporation would be secondarily liable. Under the terms of a tax allocation agreement related to the Separation, the Corporation will generally be required to indemnify Metavante against any such taxes unless such taxes would not have been imposed but for an act of Metavante or its affiliates, subject to specified exceptions. Even if the Corporation’s share distribution otherwise qualifies as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the distribution would result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to Metavante if there is an acquisition of the Corporation’s common stock or Metavante’s stock as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the Corporation’s share distribution and that results in an acquisition of 50% or more of the Corporation’s outstanding common stock or Metavante stock. In this situation, the Corporation may be required to indemnify Metavante under the terms of a tax allocation agreement related to the Separation unless such taxes would not have been imposed but for specified acts of Metavante or its affiliates. In addition, mutual indemnity obligations in the tax allocation agreement could discourage or prevent a third party from making a proposal to acquire the Corporation. The Corporation will be restricted in its ability to issue equity for at least two years following completion of the Separation, which could limit its ability to make acquisitions or to raise capital required to service its debt and operate its business. The amount of equity that the Corporation can issue to make acquisitions (excluding acquisitions with respect to which the Corporation can prove the absence of “substantial negotiations” during applicable safe harbor periods) or 16 Table of Contents raise additional capital will be limited for at least two years following completion of the Separation, except in limited circumstances. These limitations may restrict the ability of the Corporation to carry out its business objectives and to take advantage of opportunities such as acquisitions that could supplement or grow the Corporation’s business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 