Item 1A. Risk Factors The United States economy remains weak and unemployment levels are high. The prolonged economic downturn will adversely affect our business and financial results. The United States experienced a severe economic recession beginning in 2008 and continuing into 2009 and 2010. While economic growth has resumed recently, the rate of growth has been slow and unemployment remains at very high levels and is not expected to improve in the near future. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many financial institutions reflecting, in part, the weak U.S. economy and high unemployment. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. The continuing real estate downturn also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and increased delinquencies in construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have declined substantially, and it is significantly more difficult for banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the market for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Moreover, declines in the stock market in general, or stock values of financial institutions and their holding companies specifically, could adversely affect our stock performance. The Dodd-Frank Act will, among other things, eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act will eliminate the primary federal regulator for LaPorte Bancorp and LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and will authorize the Federal Reserve Board, to supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies, such as LaPorte Bancorp and LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC, in addition to bank holding companies, which it currently regulates. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for insured depository institutions, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the proceeds of trust preferred securities are excluded from Tier 1 capital unless such securities were issued prior to May 19, 2010 by bank or savings and loan holding companies with less than $15 billion of assets. Bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies with assets of less than $500 million are exempt from these capital requirements. Savings and loan holding companies are subject to a five year transition period before the holding company capital requirement will apply. The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes, for the first time, the payment of interest on commercial checking accounts effective July 1, 2011. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as The LaPorte Savings Bank, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption available for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. 38 Table of Contents In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act will increase stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation (although this vote would not apply to smaller reporting companies such as LaPorte Bancorp until annual meetings held after January 21, 2013) and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate and solicit votes for their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act requires that originators of securitized loans retain a percentage of the risk for transferred loans, directs the Federal Reserve Board to regulate pricing of certain debit card interchange fees and contains a number of reforms related to mortgage origination. Many of the provision of the Dodd-Frank Act involve delayed effective dates and/or require implementing regulations. Accordingly, it will be some time before management can assess the full impact on operations. However, there is a significant possibility that the Dodd-Frank Act will, at a minimum, result in an increased regulatory burden and compliance, operating and interest expense for The LaPorte Savings Bank and LaPorte Bancorp. The Dodd-Frank Act may have an adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends, which would adversely affect the value of our common stock. To date, LaPorte Bancorp has not paid any dividend to its shareholders. LaPorte Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholders in the future is subject to numerous factors, including the ability of The LaPorte Savings Bank to make capital distributions to LaPorte Bancorp, and also to the availability of cash at the holding company level in the event earnings are not sufficient to pay dividends. Moreover, our ability to pay dividends and the amount of any such dividends is affected by the ability of LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC, our mutual holding company, to waive the receipt of dividends declared by LaPorte Bancorp. If LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC waives its right to receive any dividends on its shares of LaPorte Bancorp in the future, LaPorte Bancorp would have more cash resources to pay dividends to our public stockholders than if LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC accepted such dividends. LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC is required to obtain Office of Thrift Supervision approval before it may waive its receipt of dividends. Office of Thrift Supervision regulations allow federally chartered mutal holding companies to waive dividends without taking into account the amount of waived dividends in determining an appropriate exchange ratio in the event of a conversion of a mutual holding company to stock form. However, under the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act, the powers and duties of the Office of Thrift Supervision will be eliminated. Accordingly, the Federal Reserve Board will become the new regulator of LaPorte Bancorp and LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides that a mutual holding company will be required to give the Federal Reserve Board notice before waiving the receipt of dividends, and sets forth the standards for granting a waiver, including a requirement that waived dividends be considered in determining an appropriate exchange ratio in the event of a conversion of the mutual holding company to stock form. The Federal Reserve Board historically has generally not allowed mutual holding companies to waive the receipt of dividends, and there can be no assurance as to the conditions, if any, the Federal Reserve Board will place on any future dividend waiver request by LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC. A continued downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. Nearly all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in LaPorte County. As a result of this concentration, a continued downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would hurt our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. In addition, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments on their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. 39 Table of Contents We have increased our commercial real estate loan originations, which increases the risk in our loan portfolio. In order to enhance the yield and shorten the term-to-maturity of our loan portfolio, we have expanded our commercial real estate lending during recent years. In addition, we acquired a significant portfolio of such loans in the City Savings Bank merger in 2007. Commercial real estate lending has increased as a percentage of our total loan portfolio from 18.5% at December 31, 2002 to 28.8% at December 31, 2010. Given their larger balances and the complexity of the underlying collateral, commercial real estate loans generally expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by owner occupied one- to four-family real estate. In addition, our commercial real estate loan portfolio is not as seasoned as the loan portfolios of some of our competitors. During 2008, we began to experience an increase in nonperforming commercial real estate loans, which continued during 2009 and into 2010. In light of the current weakness in the real estate market and economy, we may continue to experience increases in nonperforming loans and provisions for loan losses. Our mortgage warehousing line of business may be subject to a higher risk than our residential lending operations. We operate a mortgage warehousing line of business. Under this program, we provide financing to approved mortgage companies for the origination and sale of residential mortgage loans. Each individual mortgage is assigned to us until the loan is sold to the secondary market by the mortgage company. We take possession of each original note and forward such note to the end investor once the mortgage company has sold the loan. Because we rely on the mortgage companies to make and document the loans, we have less control over the quality of the underlying loans and the creditworthiness of the borrowers. If our mortgage warehousing customers are negatively affected by regulatory changes or increased competition, our earnings could decrease. New rules issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regarding the compensation received by mortgage originators may impact the way some of the mortgage companies with which we conduct our mortgage warehousing business structure their business operations. In addition, in November 2010, the Department of Housing and Urban Development stated that it was considering issuing guidance under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act to address possible changes in warehouse lending and other financing mechanisms used to fund federally related mortgage loans. It also remains unclear at this time whether our mortgage warehousing business will be impacted by rules issued under the Dodd-Frank Act, including rules that will require that certain persons involved in the organization of loans for securitization retain an economic interest in the credit risk of such loans. Furthermore, the U.S. Congress is considering a series of reforms to the federal government’s support of residential lending which will affect our mortgage banking customers. Finally, the settlements being negotiated in connection with the foreclosure crisis could also impact our mortgage banking customers. Competition in warehouse lending has recently increased on a national level as lenders such as GMAC, BB&T Corporation, Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Sterling Warehouse Lending have begun entering the mortgage warehouse business. If regulatory changes or increased competition negatively affect our mortgage warehousing line of business, our earnings could decrease. 40 Table of Contents If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. While our allowance for loan losses was 1.42% of total loans at December 31, 2010, material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changing interest rates may hurt our profits and asset values. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: • the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Our liabilities generally have shorter maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility as market interest rates change. In periods of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities, resulting in a decline in our net interest income. In periods of declining interest rates, our net interest income is generally positively affected although such positive effects may be reduced or eliminated by prepayments of loans and redemptions of callable securities. In addition, when long-term interest rates are not significantly higher than short-term rates thus creating a “flat” yield curve, the Company’s interest rate spread will decrease thus reducing net interest income. Finally, federal initiatives designed to reduce mortgage interest spreads may reduce our loan income without a corresponding reduction in funding costs, thus decreasing our spreads. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. As December 31, 2010, the fair value of our securities classified as available for sale totaled $119.4 million. Unrealized net gains on available-for-sale securities totaled $667,000 at December 31, 2010 and are reported, net of tax, as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. However, a rise in interest rates could cause a decrease in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods which would have an adverse effect on shareholders’ equity. Depending on market conditions, we often place more emphasis on enhancing our net interest margin rather than matching the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities. In particular, we believe that the increased net interest income resulting from a mismatch in the maturity of our asset and liability portfolios can, during periods of stable or declining interest rates provide high enough returns to justify increased exposure to sudden and unexpected increases in interest rates. As a result, our results of operations and the economic value of our equity will remain vulnerable to increases in interest rates and to declines in the difference between long- and short-term rates. See “Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” 41 Table of Contents Slow growth in our market area has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our performance. Economic and population growth within our market area has for several decades been below the national average. Management believes that these factors have adversely affected our profitability and our ability to increase our loans and deposits. Our acquisition of City Savings Financial Corporation facilitated our entrance into the Michigan City and Chesterton, Indiana markets, which are growing more rapidly than Eastern LaPorte County. However, these markets have experienced a significant decline in real estate values and economic activity as a result of the current recession. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition in making loans, attracting deposits and hiring and retaining experienced employees. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits sometimes results in us charging lower interest rates on our loans and paying higher interest rates on our deposits, which reduces our net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult and costly to attract and retain qualified employees. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. For more information about our market area and the competition we face, see “Item 1. Business—Market Area” and “Item 1. Business—Competition.” We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits, and by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions as our primary regulator. LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC and LaPorte Bancorp are subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of The LaPorte Savings Bank rather than for holders of LaPorte Bancorp common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations including compliance costs. If the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis continues to pay a reduced dividend, our earnings will be negatively affected. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis (“FHLBI”) to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLBI’s advance program. There is no market for our FHLBI common stock. Since the fourth quarter of 2008, the FHLBI has paid a reduced dividend on its stock due to losses in its securities portfolio. As a result, we received approximately $130,000 and $88,000 less from FHLBI dividends in 2010 and 2009, respectively, compared to 2008. If the FHLBI continues to pay a reduced dividend, our earnings will be negatively affected. Stock price may be volatile due to limited trading volume. LaPorte Bancorp, Inc.’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. However, the average daily trading volume in the Stock Company’s common stock has been relatively small, averaging less than approximately 2,158 shares per day during the month of December 2010 and approximately 1,430 shares per day during the year of 2010. As a result, trades involving a relatively small number of shares may have a significant effect on the market price of the common stock, and it may be difficult for investors to acquire or dispose of large blocks of stock without significantly affecting the market price. 42 Table of Contents Public stockholders own a minority of LaPorte Bancorp, Inc.’s common stock and will not be able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. LaPorte Bancorp, Inc.’s holding company, LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC owns approximately 54.99% of its common stock, as of December 31, 2010. Directors and executive officers own or control approximately 3.03% of the common stock. The same directors and executive officers that manage LaPorte Bancorp, Inc., also manage LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC. Public stockholders who are not associated with the MHC or LaPorte Bancorp, Inc. own approximately 41.98% of the common stock. The Board of Directors of LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC will be able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders because the MHC owns a majority of LaPorte Bancorp, Inc.’s common stock. For example, LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC may exercise its voting control to prevent a sale or merger transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium for their shares or to approve employee benefit plans. We could potentially recognize goodwill impairment charges. In connection with our acquisition of City Savings Financial, we recorded goodwill equaling $8.4 million. LaPorte Bancorp annually measures the fair value of its investment in The LaPorte Savings Bank to determine that such fair value equals or exceeds the carrying value of its investment, including goodwill. If the fair value of our investment in The LaPorte Savings Bank does not equal or exceed its carrying value, we will be required to record goodwill impairment charges which may adversely affect future earnings. The fair value of a banking franchise can fluctuate downward based on a number of factors that are beyond management’s control, (e.g. adverse trends in the general economy or interest rates). As a result of impairment testing performed as of September 30, 2010, no impairment charge was recorded by the Company. There can be no assurance that our banking franchise value will not decline in the future to a level necessitating goodwill impairment charges to operations that could be material to our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 43 Table of Contents 