ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We may be adversely affected by a general deterioration in economic conditions The risks associated with our businesses become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession, which may be accompanied by a decrease in advertising. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. The global economic downturn resulted in a decline in advertising and marketing by our customers, resulting in a decline in advertising revenues across our businesses. This reduction in advertising revenues has had an adverse effect on our revenue, profit margins, cash flow and liquidity. The continuation of the global economic downturn may continue to adversely impact our revenue, profit margins, cash flow and liquidity. Primarily as a result of the global economic downturn, our consolidated revenue decreased $1.14 billion during 2009 compared to 2008. Revenue declined $557.5 million during 2009 compared to 2008 from our radio business associated with decreases in both local and national advertising. Our Americas outdoor revenue declined $192.1 million attributable to decreases in poster and bulletin revenues associated with cancellations and non-renewals from major national advertisers. Our International outdoor revenue also declined $399.2 million primarily as a result of challenging advertising markets and the negative impact of foreign exchange. Additionally, we performed an interim impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2008, and again in the second quarter of 2009, on our indefinite-lived assets and goodwill and recorded non-cash impairment charges of $5.3 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively. While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and utilized appropriate assumptions to calculate the fair value of our licenses, billboard permits and reporting units, it is possible a material change could occur. If future results are not consistent with our assumptions and estimates, we may be exposed to further impairment charges in the future. Our restructuring program may not be entirely successful In the fourth quarter of 2008, we commenced a restructuring program targeting a reduction in fixed costs through renegotiations of lease agreements, workforce reductions, the elimination of overlapping functions and other cost savings initiatives. The program has resulted in restructuring and other expenses, and we may incur additional costs pursuant to the restructuring program in the future. No assurance can be given that the restructuring program will achieve the anticipated cost savings in the timeframe expected or at all, or for how long any cost savings will persist. In addition, the restructuring program may be modified or terminated in response to economic conditions or otherwise. 17 Table of Contents If we need additional cash to fund our working capital, debt service, capital expenditures or other funding requirements, we may not be able to access the credit markets Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations, which has been adversely impacted by the decline in our advertising revenues resulting from the global economic downturn. Based on our current and anticipated levels of operations and conditions in our markets, we believe that cash on hand (including amounts drawn or available under Clear Channel’s senior secured credit facilities) as well as cash flow from operations will enable us to meet our working capital, capital expenditure, debt service and other funding requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, our ability to fund our working capital needs, debt service and other obligations, and to comply with the financial covenant under Clear Channel’s financing agreements depends on our future operating performance and cash flow, which are in turn subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our future operating performance does not meet our expectation or our plans materially change in an adverse manner or prove to be materially inaccurate, we may need additional financing. Adverse securities and credit market conditions could significantly affect the availability of equity or credit financing. Consequently, there can be no assurance that such financing, if permitted under the terms of Clear Channel’s financing agreements, will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. The inability to obtain additional financing in such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and on our ability to meet Clear Channel’s obligations. Downgrades in our credit ratings and/or macroeconomic conditions may adversely affect our borrowing costs, limit our financing options, reduce our flexibility under future financings and adversely affect our liquidity Our and Clear Channel’s current corporate ratings are “CCC+” and “Caa2” by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service, respectively, which are speculative grade ratings. These ratings have been downgraded and then upgraded at various times during the two years ended December 31, 2009. These ratings and any additional reductions in our credit ratings could further increase our borrowing costs and reduce the availability of financing to us. In addition, deteriorating economic conditions, including market disruptions, tightened credit markets and significantly wider corporate borrowing spreads, may make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing in the future. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by certain variables which are not in our control Certain variables that could adversely affect our financial performance by, among other things, leading to decreases in overall revenues, the numbers of advertising customers, advertising fees, or profit margins include: • unfavorable economic conditions, both general and relative to the radio broadcasting, outdoor advertising and all related media industries, which may cause companies to reduce their expenditures on advertising; • unfavorable shifts in population and other demographics which may cause us to lose advertising customers as people migrate to markets where we have a smaller presence, or which may cause advertisers to be willing to pay less in advertising fees if the general population shifts into a less desirable age or geographical demographic from an advertising perspective; • an increased level of competition for advertising dollars, which may lead to lower advertising rates as we attempt to retain customers or which may cause us to lose customers to our competitors who offer lower rates that we are unable or unwilling to match; • unfavorable fluctuations in operating costs which we may be unwilling or unable to pass through to our customers; • technological changes and innovations that we are unable to adopt or are late in adopting that offer more attractive advertising or listening alternatives than what we currently offer, which may lead to a loss of advertising customers or to lower advertising rates; • the impact of potential new royalties charged for terrestrial radio broadcasting which could materially increase our expenses; • unfavorable changes in labor conditions which may require us to spend more to retain and attract key employees; and • changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of regulatory bodies which could restrict the advertising media which we employ or restrict some or all of our customers that operate in regulated areas from using certain advertising media, or from advertising at all. We face intense competition in the broadcasting and outdoor advertising industries We operate in a highly competitive industry, and we may not be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising and sales revenues. Our radio stations and outdoor advertising properties compete for audiences and advertising revenues with other radio stations and outdoor advertising companies, as well as with other 18 Table of Contents media, such as newspapers, magazines, television, direct mail, satellite radio and Internet based media, within their respective markets. Audience ratings and market shares are subject to change, which could have the effect of reducing our revenues in that market. Our competitors may develop services or advertising media that are equal or superior to those we provide or that achieve greater market acceptance and brand recognition than we achieve. It is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share in any of our business segments. An increased level of competition for advertising dollars may lead to lower advertising rates as we attempt to retain customers or may cause us to lose customers to our competitors who offer lower rates that we are unable or unwilling to match. Our business is dependent upon the performance of on-air talent and program hosts, as well as our management team and other key employees We employ or independently contract with several on-air personalities and hosts of syndicated radio programs with significant loyal audiences in their respective markets. Although we have entered into long-term agreements with some of our key on-air talent and program hosts to protect our interests in those relationships, we can give no assurance that all or any of these persons will remain with us or will retain their audiences. Competition for these individuals is intense and many of these individuals are under no legal obligation to remain with us. Our competitors may choose to extend offers to any of these individuals on terms which we may be unwilling to meet. Furthermore, the popularity and audience loyalty of our key on-air talent and program hosts is highly sensitive to rapidly changing public tastes. A loss of such popularity or audience loyalty is beyond our control and could limit our ability to generate revenues. Our business is also dependent upon the performance of our management team and other key employees. Although we have entered into long-term agreements with some of these individuals, we can give no assurance that all or any of our executive officers or key employees will remain with us. Competition for these individuals is intense and many of our key employees are at-will employees who are under no legal obligation to remain with us. In addition, any or all of our executive officers or key employees may decide to leave for a variety of personal or other reasons beyond our control. Certain members of our senior management, including Randall T. Mays, our former President and Chief Financial Officer, Herbert W. Hill, Jr., our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, Paul J. Meyer, our former President and Chief Executive Officer of our Americas division, and Andrew Levin, our former Executive Vice President and General Counsel, have recently left the Company or changed their role within the Company. Although we have hired several new executive officers, if we are unable to hire new employees to replace our senior managers or are not successful in attracting, motivating and retaining other key employees, our business could be adversely affected. Capital requirements necessary to implement strategic initiatives could pose risks The purchase price of possible acquisitions, capital expenditures for deployment of digital billboards and/or other strategic initiatives could require additional indebtedness or equity financing on our part. Since the terms and availability of this financing depend to a large degree upon general economic conditions and third parties over which we have no control, we can give no assurance that we will obtain the needed financing or that we will obtain such financing on attractive terms. In addition, our ability to obtain financing depends on a number of other factors, many of which are also beyond our control, such as interest rates and national and local business conditions. If the cost of obtaining needed financing is too high or the terms of such financing are otherwise unacceptable in relation to the strategic opportunity we are presented with, we may decide to forego that opportunity. Additional indebtedness could increase our leverage and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. New technologies may affect our broadcasting operations Our broadcasting businesses face increasing competition from new broadcast technologies, such as broadband wireless and satellite radio, and new consumer products, such as portable digital audio players. These new technologies and alternative media platforms compete with our radio stations for audience share and advertising revenues. The FCC has also approved new technologies for use in the radio broadcasting industry, including the terrestrial delivery of digital audio broadcasting, which significantly enhances the sound quality of radio broadcasts. We are unable to predict the effect such technologies and related services and products will have on our broadcasting operations, but the capital expenditures necessary to implement such technologies could be substantial and other companies employing such technologies could compete with our businesses. Extensive current government regulation, and future regulation, may limit our broadcasting operations or adversely affect our business and financial results The Federal government extensively regulates the domestic broadcasting industry, and any changes in the current regulatory scheme could significantly affect us. Provisions of Federal law regulate the broadcast of obscene, 19 Table of Contents indecent or profane material. The FCC has substantially increased its monetary penalties for violations of these regulations. Congressional legislation enacted in 2006 provides the FCC with authority to impose fines of up to $325,000 per violation for the broadcast of such material. We therefore face increased costs in the form of fines for indecency violations, and cannot predict whether Congress will consider or adopt further legislation in this area. In addition, from time to time regulations or legislation is proposed or enacted which affects our broadcasting business. Recently, legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress which seeks to impose a royalty payment obligation upon all U.S. broadcasters to pay copyright owners for their sound recording rights (this would be in addition to payments already being made by broadcasters to owners of musical work rights). We cannot predict whether this or other legislation affecting our broadcasting business will be adopted. This or other legislation affecting our broadcasting could have a material impact on our operations and financial results. Environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations may limit or restrict some of our operations As the owner or operator of various real properties and facilities, especially in our outdoor advertising operations, we must comply with various foreign, Federal, state and local environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations. We and our properties are subject to such laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, disposal, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and employee health and safety as well as zoning restrictions. Historically, we have not incurred significant expenditures to comply with these laws. However, additional laws which may be passed in the future, or a finding of a violation of or liability under existing laws, could require us to make significant expenditures and otherwise limit or restrict some of our operations. Government regulation of outdoor advertising may restrict our outdoor advertising operations United States Federal, state and local regulations have a significant impact on the outdoor advertising industry and our business. One of the seminal laws is the HBA, which regulates outdoor advertising on the 306,000 miles of Federal-Aid Primary, Interstate and National Highway Systems. The HBA regulates the size and location of billboards, mandates a state compliance program, requires the development of state standards, promotes the expeditious removal of illegal signs, and requires just compensation for takings. Construction, repair, maintenance, lighting, upgrading, height, size, spacing, the location and permitting of billboards and the use of new technologies for changing displays, such as digital displays, are regulated by Federal, state and local governments. From time to time, states and municipalities have prohibited or significantly limited the construction of new outdoor advertising structures, and also permitted non-conforming structures to be rebuilt by third parties. Changes in laws and regulations affecting outdoor advertising at any level of government, including laws of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, could have a significant financial impact on us by requiring us to make significant expenditures or otherwise limiting or restricting some of our operations. From time to time, certain state and local governments and third parties have attempted to force the removal of our displays under various state and local laws, including zoning ordinances, permit enforcement, condemnation and amortization. Amortization is the attempted forced removal of legal but non-conforming billboards (billboards which conformed with applicable zoning regulations when built, but which do not conform to current zoning regulations) or the commercial advertising placed on such billboards after a period of years. Pursuant to this concept, the governmental body asserts that just compensation is earned by continued operation of the billboard over time. Amortization is prohibited along all controlled roads and generally prohibited along non-controlled roads. Amortization has, however, been upheld along non-controlled roads in limited instances where provided by state and local law. Other regulations limit our ability to rebuild, replace, repair, maintain and upgrade non-conforming displays. In addition, from time to time third parties or local governments assert that we own or operate displays that either are not properly permitted or otherwise are not in strict compliance with applicable law. For example, recent court rulings have upheld regulations in the City of New York that may impact the number of displays we have in certain areas within the city. Although we believe that the number of our billboards that may be subject to removal based on alleged noncompliance is immaterial, from time to time we have been required to remove billboards for alleged noncompliance. Such regulations and allegations have not had a material impact on our results of operations to date, but if we are increasingly unable to resolve such allegations or obtain acceptable arrangements in circumstances in which our displays are subject to removal, modification, or amortization, or if there occurs an increase in such regulations or their enforcement, our operating results could suffer. A number of state and local governments have implemented or initiated legislative billboard controls, including taxes, fees and registration requirements in an effort to decrease or restrict the number of outdoor signs and/or to raise revenue. In addition, a number of jurisdictions, including the City of Los Angeles, have implemented legislation or interpreted existing legislation to restrict or prohibit the installation of new digital billboards. While these controls have not had a material impact on our business and financial results to date, we expect states and local governments to continue these efforts. The increased imposition of these controls and our inability to overcome any such regulations could reduce our operating income if those outcomes require removal or restrictions on the use of preexisting displays. In 20 Table of Contents addition, if we are unable to pass on the cost of these items to our clients, our operating income could be adversely affected. International regulation of the outdoor advertising industry varies by region and country, but generally limits the size, placement, nature and density of out-of-home displays. Other regulations limit the subject matter and language of out-of-home displays. For instance, the United States and most European Union countries, among other nations, have banned outdoor advertisements for tobacco products. Our failure to comply with these or any future international regulations could have an adverse impact on the effectiveness of our displays or their attractiveness to clients as an advertising medium and may require us to make significant expenditures to ensure compliance. As a result, we may experience a significant impact on our operations, revenue, International client base and overall financial condition. Additional restrictions on outdoor advertising of tobacco, alcohol and other products may further restrict the categories of clients that can advertise using our products Out-of-court settlements between the major United States tobacco companies and all 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and four other United States territories include a ban on the outdoor advertising of tobacco products. Other products and services may be targeted in the future, including alcohol products. Any significant reduction in alcohol-related advertising due to content-related restrictions could cause a reduction in our direct revenues from such advertisements and an increase in the available space on the existing inventory of billboards in the outdoor advertising industry. Doing business in foreign countries creates certain risks not found in doing business in the United States Doing business in foreign countries carries with it certain risks that are not found in doing business in the United States. The risks of doing business in foreign countries that could result in losses against which we are not insured include: • exposure to local economic conditions; • potential adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the United States; • hostility from local populations; • the adverse effect of currency exchange controls; • restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings; • government policies against businesses owned by foreigners; • investment restrictions or requirements; • expropriations of property; • the potential instability of foreign governments; • the risk of insurrections; • risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements with governmental authorities; • foreign exchange restrictions; • withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • changes in taxation structure; and • changes in laws or regulations or the interpretation or application of laws or regulations. In addition, because we own assets in foreign countries and derive revenues from our international operations, we may incur currency translation losses due to changes in the values of foreign currencies and in the value of the United States dollar. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. The success of our street furniture and transit products is dependent on our obtaining key municipal concessions, which we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms Our street furniture and transit products businesses require us to obtain and renew contracts with municipalities and other governmental entities. Many of these contracts, which require us to participate in competitive bidding processes at each renewal, typically have terms ranging from three to 20 years and have revenue share and/or fixed payment components. Our inability to successfully negotiate, renew or complete these contracts due to governmental demands and delay and the highly competitive bidding processes for these contracts could affect our ability to offer these products to our clients, or to offer them to our clients at rates that are competitive to other forms of advertising, without adversely affecting our financial results. 21 Table of Contents The lack of availability of potential acquisitions at reasonable prices could harm our growth strategy Our strategy is to pursue strategic opportunities and to optimize our portfolio of assets. We face competition from other radio broadcasting companies and outdoor advertising companies for acquisition opportunities. The purchase price of possible acquisitions could require the incurrence of additional debt or equity financing on our part. Since the terms and availability of this financing depend to a large degree upon general economic conditions and third parties over which we have no control, we can give no assurance that we will obtain the needed financing at all, or that we will obtain such financing on attractive terms. In addition, our ability to obtain financing depends on a number of other factors, many of which are also beyond our control, such as interest rates and national and local business conditions. If the cost of obtaining needed financing is too high or the terms of such financing are otherwise unacceptable in relation to the acquisition opportunity we are presented with, we may decide to forgo that opportunity. Additional indebtedness could increase our leverage and make us more vulnerable in economic downturns, including in the current downturn, and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Future transactions could pose risks We frequently evaluate strategic opportunities both within and outside our existing lines of business. We expect from time to time to pursue additional acquisitions and may decide to dispose of certain businesses. These acquisitions or dispositions could be material. Our acquisition strategy involves numerous risks, including: • certain of our acquisitions may prove unprofitable and fail to generate anticipated cash flows; • to successfully manage our large portfolio of broadcasting, outdoor advertising and other properties, we may need to: • recruit additional senior management as we cannot be assured that senior management of acquired companies will continue to work for us and we cannot be certain that any of our recruiting efforts will succeed, and • expand corporate infrastructure to facilitate the integration of our operations with those of acquired properties, because failure to do so may cause us to lose the benefits of any expansion that we decide to undertake by leading to disruptions in our ongoing businesses or by distracting our management; • we may enter into markets and geographic areas where we have limited or no experience; • we may encounter difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; • our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; and • we may lose key employees of acquired companies or stations. Additional acquisitions by us of radio stations and outdoor advertising properties may require antitrust review by Federal antitrust agencies and may require review by foreign antitrust agencies under the antitrust laws of foreign jurisdictions. We can give no assurances that the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) or the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) or foreign antitrust agencies will not seek to bar us from acquiring additional radio stations or outdoor advertising properties in any market where we already have a significant position. The DOJ also actively reviews proposed acquisitions of outdoor advertising properties and radio broadcasting assets. In addition, the antitrust laws of foreign jurisdictions will apply if we acquire international outdoor properties or radio broadcasting properties. We may be adversely affected by the occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks The occurrence of extraordinary events, such as terrorist attacks, intentional or unintentional mass casualty incidents, or similar events may substantially decrease the use of and demand for advertising, which may decrease our revenues or expose us to substantial liability. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, for example, caused a nationwide disruption of commercial activities. The occurrence of future terrorist attacks, military actions by the United States, contagious disease outbreaks, or similar events cannot be predicted, and their occurrence can be expected to further negatively affect the economies of the United States and other foreign countries where we do business generally, specifically the market for advertising. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock may be volatile The market price of our Class A common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including, without limitation: • as a result of the risk factors listed in this annual report on Form 10-K; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • reasons unrelated to operating performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative announcements by our customers or competitors regarding their own performance; • regulatory changes that could impact our business; and • general economic and industry conditions. Shares of our Class A common stock are quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The lack of an active market may impair the ability of holders of our Class A common stock to sell their shares of Class A common stock at the time they wish to sell them or at a price that they consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair market value of the shares of our Class A common stock. There is no assurance that holders of our Class A common stock will ever receive cash dividends We have never paid cash dividends on our Class A common stock, and there is no guarantee that we will ever pay cash dividends on our Class A common stock in the future. The terms of our credit facilities restrict our ability to pay cash dividends on our Class A common stock. In addition to those restrictions, under Delaware law, we are permitted to pay cash dividends on our capital stock only out of our surplus, which in general terms means the excess of our net assets over the original aggregate par value of its stock. In the event we have no surplus, we are permitted to pay these cash dividends out of our net profits for the year in which the dividend is declared or in the immediately preceding year. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that, if we wish to pay cash dividends, we would be able to do so pursuant to Delaware law. Also, even if we are not prohibited from paying cash dividends by the terms of our debt or by law, other factors such as the need to reinvest cash back into our operations may prompt our board of directors to elect not to pay cash dividends. We may terminate our Exchange Act reporting, if permitted by applicable law We are obligated by the merger agreement to use reasonable efforts to continue to be a reporting company under the Exchange Act, and to continue to file periodic reports (including annual and quarterly reports), until at least July 30, 2010. After such time, if at any time our Class A common stock is held by fewer than 300 holders of record, we will be permitted to cease to be a reporting company under the Exchange Act to the extent we are not otherwise required to continue to report pursuant to any contractual agreements, including with respect to any of our indebtedness. If we were to become a voluntary filer, the information now available to our stockholders in the annual, quarterly and other reports we currently file with the SEC would not be available to them as a matter of right. Entities advised by or affiliated with Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. and Bain Capital Partners, LLC control us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future Entities advised by or affiliated with Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. (“THL”) and Bain Capital Partners, LLC (“Bain”) currently indirectly control us through their ownership of all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, which represent approximately 72% of the voting power of all of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, THL and Bain have the power to elect all but two of our directors (and, in addition, the Company has agreed that each of Mark P. Mays and Randall T. Mays shall serve as directors of the Company pursuant to the terms of their respective amended and restated employment agreements), appoint new management and approve any action requiring the approval of the holders of our capital stock, including adopting any amendments to our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation, and approving mergers or sales of substantially all of our capital stock or its assets. The directors elected by THL and Bain will have significant authority to effect decisions affecting our capital structure, including the issuance of additional capital stock, incurrence of additional indebtedness, the implementation of stock repurchase programs and the decision of whether or not to declare dividends. Additionally, THL and Bain are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or more of the entities advised by or affiliated with THL or Bain may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as entities advised by or affiliated with THL and Bain directly or indirectly own a significant amount of the voting power of our capital stock, even if such amount is less 23 Table of Contents than 50%, THL and Bain will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We have a large amount of indebtedness We currently use a significant portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service. Our exposure to floating rate indebtedness could make us vulnerable to an increase in interest rates or a downturn in the operating performance of our businesses due to various factors including a decline in general economic conditions. Our debt obligations could increase substantially because of acquisitions and other transactions that may be approved by our Board as well as the indebtedness of companies that we may acquire in the future. Such a large amount of indebtedness could have negative consequences for us, including, without limitation: • dedicating a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, thereby reducing cash available for other purposes, including to fund operations and capital expenditures, invest in new technology and pursue other business opportunities; • limiting our liquidity and operational flexibility and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • limiting our ability to adjust to changing economic, business and competitive conditions; • requiring us to defer planned capital expenditures, reduce discretionary spending, sell assets, restructure existing indebtedness or defer acquisitions or other strategic opportunities; • limiting our ability to refinance any of our indebtedness or increasing the cost of any such financing in any downturn in our operating performance or decline in general economic conditions; • making us more vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or a decline in general economic conditions; and • making us more susceptible to changes in credit ratings which could impact our ability to obtain financing in the future and increase the cost of such financing. If compliance with our debt obligations materially hinders our ability to operate our business and adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may suffer. The terms of our credit facilities allow us, under certain conditions, to incur further indebtedness, which heightens the foregoing risks. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, which together with cash on hand and availability under our senior secured credit facilities, is not sufficient to service our debt, we may have to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any refinancing of this kind would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained. The documents governing our indebtedness contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business Clear Channel’s material financing agreements, including its credit agreements, bond indentures and subsidiary senior notes, contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, incur or permit liens, merge or consolidate with or into, another company, sell assets, pay dividends and other payments in respect to our capital stock, including to redeem or repurchase our capital stock, prepay or amend certain junior indebtedness, make certain acquisitions and investments and enter into transactions with affiliates. Our failure to comply with the covenants in Clear Channel’s material financing agreements could be an event of default and could accelerate the payment obligations and, in some cases, could affect other obligations with cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions In addition to covenants contained in Clear Channel’s material financing agreements, including the subsidiary senior notes, that impose restrictions on our business and operations, Clear Channel’s senior secured credit facilities include a maximum consolidated senior secured net debt to adjusted EBITDA limitation. Our ability to comply with this limitation may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any covenants set forth in our financing agreements, including the subsidiary senior notes, would result in a default thereunder. An event of default would permit the lenders under a defaulted financing agreement to declare all indebtedness thereunder to be due and payable prior to maturity. Moreover, the lenders under the revolving credit facility under Clear Channel’s senior secured credit facilities would have the option to terminate their commitments to make further extensions of revolving credit thereunder. If we are unable to repay Clear Channel’s obligations under any secured credit facility, the lenders could proceed against any assets that were pledged to secure such facility (including certain deposit accounts). In addition, a default or acceleration under any of Clear Channel’s 24 Table of Contents material financing agreements, including the subsidiary senior notes, could cause a default under other obligations that are subject to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions. The threshold amount for a cross-default under the senior secured credit facilities is $100 million dollars. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Except for the historical information, this report contains various forward-looking statements which represent our expectations or beliefs concerning future events, including without limitation, our future operating and financial performance and availability of capital resources and the terms thereof. Statements expressing expectations and projections with respect to future matters are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. We caution that these forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are subject to many variables which could impact our future performance. These statements are made on the basis of management’s views and assumptions, as of the time the statements are made, regarding future events and performance. There can be no assurance, however, that management’s expectations will necessarily come to pass. We do not intend, nor do we undertake any duty, to update any forward-looking statements. A wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance, including: • the impact of the substantial indebtedness incurred to finance the consummation of the merger; • risks associated with the global economic crisis and its impact on capital markets and liquidity; • the need to allocate significant amounts of our cash flow to make payments on our indebtedness, which in turn could reduce our financial flexibility and ability to fund other activities; • the impact of the global economic downturn, which has adversely affected advertising revenues across our businesses and other general economic and political conditions in the United States and in other countries in which we currently do business, including those resulting from recessions, political events and acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; • our restructuring program may not be entirely successful; • the impact of the geopolitical environment; • our ability to integrate the operations of recently acquired companies; • shifts in population and other demographics; • industry conditions, including competition; • fluctuations in operating costs; • technological changes and innovations; • changes in labor conditions; • fluctuations in exchange rates and currency values; • capital expenditure requirements; • the outcome of pending and future litigation settlements; • legislative or regulatory requirements; • changes in interest rates; • the effect of leverage on our financial position and earnings; • taxes; • access to capital markets and borrowed indebtedness; and • certain other factors set forth in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This list of factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements is illustrative and is not intended to be exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 