ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our results have been in the past, and could be in the future, adversely affected by deteriorations in economic conditions The risks associated with our businesses become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession, which may be accompanied by a decrease in advertising. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. The recent global economic downturn resulted in a decline in advertising and marketing by our customers, which resulted in a decline in advertising revenues across our businesses. This reduction in advertising revenues had an adverse effect on our revenue, profit margins, cash flow and liquidity. Although we believe that global economic conditions are improving, if they do not continue to improve or if they deteriorate again, global economic conditions may once again adversely impact our revenue, profit margins, cash flow and liquidity. Furthermore, because a significant portion of our revenue is derived from local advertisers, our ability to generate revenues in specific markets is directly affected by local and regional conditions, and regional economic declines also may adversely impact our results. In addition, even in the absence of a downturn in general economic conditions, an individual business sector or market may experience a downturn, causing it to reduce its advertising expenditures, which may also adversely impact our results. 12 Table of Contents Our consolidated revenue increased $313.8 million during 2010 compared to 2009. However, primarily as a result of the recent global economic downturn, our consolidated revenue decreased $1.14 billion during 2009 compared to 2008. This decrease in 2009 was experienced by each of our Radio, Americas outdoor and International outdoor segments. We performed impairment tests on our goodwill and other intangible assets during the fourth quarter of 2010 and recorded non-cash impairment charges of $15.4 million primarily related to a specific outdoor market for which the unfavorable impact of litigation has resulted in the impairment of certain advertising structures and declines in revenue. Additionally, we performed impairment tests in 2008 and 2009 on our indefinite-lived assets and goodwill and, as a result of the global economic downturn and the corresponding reduction in our revenues, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $5.3 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively. Although we believe we have made reasonable estimates and used appropriate assumptions to calculate the fair value of our licenses, billboard permits and reporting units, it is possible a material change could occur. If actual market conditions and operational performance for the respective reporting units underlying the intangible assets were to deteriorate, or if facts and circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the estimated fair value of the indefinite-lived assets or goodwill for these reporting units below their adjusted carrying amounts, we may also be required to recognize additional impairment charges in future periods, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If we need additional cash to fund our working capital, debt service, capital expenditures or other funding requirements, we may not be able to access the credit markets Our primary source of liquidity is cash flow from operations, which improved during 2010 but was adversely impacted by the decline in our advertising revenues during 2008 and 2009 as a result of the global economic downturn. Based on our current and anticipated levels of operations and conditions in our markets, we believe that cash on hand as well as cash flow from operations will enable us to meet our working capital, capital expenditure, debt service and other funding requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, our ability to fund our working capital needs, debt service and other obligations and to comply with the financial covenant under Clear Channel’s financing agreements depends on our future operating performance and cash flow, which are in turn subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our future operating performance does not meet our expectation or our plans materially change in an adverse manner or prove to be materially inaccurate, we may need additional financing. In addition, the purchase price of possible acquisitions, capital expenditures for deployment of digital billboards and/or other strategic initiatives could require additional indebtedness or equity financing on our part. Adverse securities and credit market conditions, such as those experienced during 2008 and 2009, could significantly affect the availability of equity or credit financing. Consequently, there can be no assurance that such financing, if permitted under the terms of Clear Channel’s financing agreements, will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. The inability to obtain additional financing in such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and on our ability to meet Clear Channel’s obligations or pursue strategic initiatives. Additional indebtedness could increase our leverage and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our borrowing costs, limit our financing options, reduce our flexibility under future financings and adversely affect our liquidity, and also may adversely impact our business operations Our and Clear Channel’s corporate credit ratings by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service are speculative-grade and have been downgraded and upgraded at various times during the past several years. Any reductions in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, reduce the availability of financing to us or increase the cost of doing business or otherwise negatively impact our business operations. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by certain variables which are not in our control Certain variables that could adversely affect our financial performance by, among other things, leading to decreases in overall revenues, the numbers of advertising customers, advertising fees, or profit margins include: • unfavorable economic conditions, both general and relative to the radio broadcasting, outdoor advertising and all related media industries, which may cause companies to reduce their expenditures on advertising; 13 Table of Contents • an increased level of competition for advertising dollars, which may lead to lower advertising rates as we attempt to retain customers or which may cause us to lose customers to our competitors who offer lower rates that we are unable or unwilling to match; • unfavorable fluctuations in operating costs, which we may be unwilling or unable to pass through to our customers; • technological changes and innovations that we are unable to adopt or are late in adopting that offer more attractive advertising or listening alternatives than what we offer, which may lead to a loss of advertising customers or to lower advertising rates; • the impact of potential new royalties charged for terrestrial radio broadcasting, which could materially increase our expenses; • unfavorable shifts in population and other demographics, which may cause us to lose advertising customers as people migrate to markets where we have a smaller presence or which may cause advertisers to be willing to pay less in advertising fees if the general population shifts into a less desirable age or geographical demographic from an advertising perspective; • unfavorable changes in labor conditions, which may impair our ability to operate or require us to spend more to retain and attract key employees; and • changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of regulatory bodies which could restrict the advertising media that we employ or restrict some or all of our customers that operate in regulated areas from using certain advertising media, or from advertising at all. We face intense competition in the broadcasting and outdoor advertising industries We operate in a highly competitive industry, and we may not be able to maintain or increase our current audience ratings and advertising and sales revenues. Our radio stations and outdoor advertising properties compete for audiences and advertising revenues with other radio stations and outdoor advertising companies, as well as with other media, such as newspapers, magazines, television, direct mail, iPods, smart mobile phones, satellite radio and Internet-based media, within their respective markets. Audience ratings and market shares are subject to change, which could have the effect of reducing our revenues in that market. Our competitors may develop services or advertising media that are equal or superior to those we provide or that achieve greater market acceptance and brand recognition than we achieve. It also is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share in any of our business segments. An increased level of competition for advertising dollars may lead to lower advertising rates as we attempt to retain customers or may cause us to lose customers to our competitors who offer lower rates that we are unable or unwilling to match. Our business is dependent upon the performance of on-air talent and program hosts We employ or independently contract with many on-air personalities and hosts of syndicated radio programs with significant loyal audiences in their respective markets. Although we have entered into long-term agreements with some of our key on-air talent and program hosts to protect our interests in those relationships, we can give no assurance that all or any of these persons will remain with us or will retain their audiences. Competition for these individuals is intense and many of these individuals are under no legal obligation to remain with us. Our competitors may choose to extend offers to any of these individuals on terms which we may be unwilling to meet. Furthermore, the popularity and audience loyalty of our key on-air talent and program hosts is highly sensitive to rapidly changing public tastes. A loss of such popularity or audience loyalty is beyond our control and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract local and/or national advertisers and on our revenue and/or ratings, and could result in increased expenses. Our business is dependent on our management team and other key individuals, many of whom are new to our company and one of whom, our President and Chief Executive Officer, has announced his intention to retire Our business is dependent upon the performance of our management team and other key individuals. A number of these individuals, including Robert W. Pittman, the new Chairman of our Media and Entertainment Platforms pursuant to a consulting agreement, Thomas W. Casey, our Chief Financial Officer, Scott D. Hamilton, our Chief Accounting Officer, and Robert H. Walls, Jr., our General Counsel, joined us in 2010, and two of our three divisional CEOs, Ronald Cooper, the Chief Executive Officer of Outdoor Americas, and William Eccleshare, the Chief Executive Officer of Outdoor International, have joined us within the last 18 months. Although we have entered into agreements with some of these and other individuals, we can give no assurance that all or any of our management team or key individuals will remain with us. Competition for these individuals is intense and many of our key employees are at-will employees who are under no legal obligation to remain with us, and may decide to leave for a variety of personal or other reasons beyond our control. 14 Table of Contents In June 2010, Mark P. Mays announced his decision to retire as our President and Chief Executive Officer and asked our Board of Directors to initiate a search for his replacement. We have been actively searching for a replacement but, to date, have not identified his successor. In January 2011, Mr. Mays informed us that he would step down as President and Chief Executive Officer on the earlier of the date that his successor joins the Company or March 31, 2011. While Mr. Mays has indicated his desire to continue to serve as the Chairman of our Board of Directors and to remain actively involved with us in that capacity, if we are unable to identify a suitable candidate to succeed him as President and Chief Executive Officer, if any other senior members of our management or key individuals decide to leave us in the future, or if we are not successful in attracting, motivating and retaining other key employees, our business could be adversely affected. New technologies may increase competition with our broadcasting operations Our radio broadcasting business faces increasing competition from new technologies, such as broadband wireless, satellite radio and audio broadcasting by cable television systems, as well as new consumer products, such as portable digital audio players and smart mobile phones. These new technologies and alternative media platforms compete with our radio stations for audience share and advertising revenues. The FCC also has approved new technologies for use in the radio broadcasting industry, including the terrestrial delivery of digital audio broadcasting, which significantly enhances the sound quality of radio broadcasts. We are unable to predict the effect that such technologies and related services and products will have on our broadcasting operations, but the capital expenditures necessary to implement such technologies could be substantial. We cannot assure that we will continue to have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services to compete with other new technologies or services, and other companies employing such new technologies or services could increase competition with our businesses. Extensive current government regulation, and future regulation, may limit our broadcasting operations or adversely affect our business and financial results Congress and several federal agencies, including the FCC, extensively regulate the domestic broadcasting industry. For example, the FCC could impact our profitability by imposing large fines on us if, in response to pending complaints, it finds that we broadcast indecent programming. Additionally, we cannot be sure that the FCC will approve renewal of the licenses we must have in order to operate our stations. Nor can we be assured that our licenses will be renewed without conditions and for a full term. The non-renewal, or conditioned renewal, of a substantial number of our FCC licenses, could have a materially adverse impact on our operations. Furthermore, possible changes in interference protections, spectrum allocations and other technical rules may negatively affect the operation of our stations. For example, Congress has recently passed legislation that eliminates certain minimum distance separation requirements between full-power and low-power FM radio stations. In addition, Congress and the FCC have considered, and may in the future consider and adopt, new laws, regulations and policies that could, directly or indirectly, have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. In particular, Congress is considering legislation that would impose an obligation upon all U.S. broadcasters to pay performing artists a royalty for use of their sound recordings (this would be in addition to payments already made by broadcasters to owners of musical work rights, such as songwriters, composers and publishers). We cannot predict whether this or other legislation affecting our radio broadcasting business will be adopted. Such legislation could have a material impact on our operations and financial results. Government regulation of outdoor advertising may restrict our outdoor advertising operations U.S. federal, state and local regulations have a significant impact on the outdoor advertising industry and our business. One of the seminal laws is the HBA, which regulates outdoor advertising on the 306,000 miles of Federal-Aid Primary, Interstate and National Highway Systems. The HBA regulates the size and location of billboards, mandates a state compliance program, requires the development of state standards, promotes the expeditious removal of illegal signs and requires just compensation for takings. Construction, repair, maintenance, lighting, upgrading, height, size, spacing, the location and permitting of billboards and the use of new technologies for changing displays, such as digital displays, are regulated by federal, state and local governments. From time to time, states and municipalities have prohibited or significantly limited the construction of new outdoor advertising structures. Changes in laws and regulations affecting outdoor advertising at any level of government, including laws of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, could have a significant financial impact on us by requiring us to make significant expenditures or otherwise limiting or restricting some of our operations. Due to such regulations, it has become increasingly difficult to develop new outdoor advertising locations. 15 Table of Contents From time to time, certain state and local governments and third parties have attempted to force the removal of our displays under various state and local laws, including zoning ordinances, permit enforcement, condemnation and amortization. Amortization is the attempted forced removal of legal non-conforming billboards (billboards which conformed with applicable laws and regulations when built, but which do not conform to current laws and regulations) or the commercial advertising placed on such billboards after a period of years. Pursuant to this concept, the governmental body asserts that just compensation is earned by continued operation of the billboard over time. Amortization is prohibited along all controlled roads and generally prohibited along non-controlled roads. Amortization has, however, been upheld along non-controlled roads in limited instances where provided by state and local law. Other regulations limit our ability to rebuild, replace, repair, maintain and upgrade non-conforming displays. In addition, from time to time third parties or local governments assert that we own or operate displays that either are not properly permitted or otherwise are not in strict compliance with applicable law. For example, recent court rulings have upheld regulations in the City of New York that have impacted our displays in certain areas within the city. Although the number of our billboards from which we have been required to remove commercial advertising as a result of these regulations is immaterial, from time to time in the future we may be required to remove billboards for alleged noncompliance with regulations. Such regulations and allegations have not had a material impact on our results of operations to date, but if we are increasingly unable to resolve such allegations or obtain acceptable arrangements in circumstances in which our displays are subject to removal, modification or amortization, or if there occurs an increase in such regulations or their enforcement, our operating results could suffer. A number of state and local governments have implemented or initiated legislative billboard controls, including taxes, fees and registration requirements in an effort to decrease or restrict the number of outdoor signs and/or to raise revenue. In addition, a number of jurisdictions, including the City of Los Angeles, have implemented legislation or interpreted existing legislation to restrict or prohibit the installation of new digital billboards. While these controls have not had a material impact on our business and financial results to date, we expect states and local governments to continue these efforts. The increased imposition of these controls and our inability to overcome any such regulations could reduce our operating income if those outcomes require removal or restrictions on the use of preexisting displays. In addition, if we are unable to pass on the cost of these items to our clients, our operating income could be adversely affected. International regulation of the outdoor advertising industry varies by region and country, but generally limits the size, placement, nature and density of out-of-home displays. Other regulations limit the subject matter and language of out-of-home displays. For instance, the United States and most European Union countries, among other nations, have banned outdoor advertisements for tobacco products. Our failure to comply with these or any future international regulations could have an adverse impact on the effectiveness of our displays or their attractiveness to clients as an advertising medium and may require us to make significant expenditures to ensure compliance. As a result, we may experience a significant impact on our operations, revenue, international client base and overall financial condition. Additional restrictions on outdoor advertising of tobacco, alcohol and other products may further restrict the categories of clients that can advertise using our products Out-of-court settlements between the major U.S. tobacco companies and all 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and four other U.S. territories include a ban on the outdoor advertising of tobacco products. Other products and services may be targeted in the future, including alcohol products. Legislation regulating tobacco and alcohol advertising has also been introduced in a number of European countries in which we conduct business and could have a similar impact. Any significant reduction in alcohol-related advertising due to content-related restrictions could cause a reduction in our direct revenues from such advertisements and an increase in the available space on the existing inventory of billboards in the outdoor advertising industry. Environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations may limit or restrict some of our operations As the owner or operator of various real properties and facilities, especially in our outdoor advertising operations, we must comply with various foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations. We and our properties are subject to such laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, disposal, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and employee health and safety as well as zoning restrictions. Historically, we have not incurred significant expenditures to comply with these laws. However, additional laws which may be passed in the future, or a finding of a violation of or liability under existing laws, could require us to make significant expenditures and otherwise limit or restrict some of our operations. 16 Table of Contents Doing business in foreign countries exposes us to certain risks not found when doing business in the United States Doing business in foreign countries carries with it certain risks that are not found when doing business in the United States. The risks of doing business in foreign countries that could result in losses against which we are not insured include: • exposure to local economic conditions; • potential adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries with the United States; • hostility from local populations; • the adverse effect of foreign exchange controls; • government policies against businesses owned by foreigners; • investment restrictions or requirements; • expropriations of property; • the potential instability of foreign governments; • the risk of insurrections; • risks of renegotiation or modification of existing agreements with governmental authorities; • difficulties collecting receivables and otherwise enforcing contracts with governmental agencies and others in some foreign legal systems; • withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; • changes in tax structure and level; and • changes in laws or regulations or the interpretation or application of laws or regulations. In addition, because we own assets in foreign countries and derive revenues from our International operations, we may incur currency translation losses due to changes in the values of foreign currencies and in the value of the U.S. dollar. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. Our international operations involve contracts with, and regulation by, foreign governments. We operate in many parts of the world that experience government corruption to some degree. Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance (including with respect to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010), our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate applicable anticorruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The success of our street furniture and transit products is dependent on our obtaining key municipal concessions, which we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms Our street furniture and transit products businesses require us to obtain and renew contracts with municipalities and other governmental entities. Many of these contracts, which require us to participate in competitive bidding processes at each renewal, typically have terms ranging from three to 20 years and have revenue share and/or fixed payment components. Our inability to successfully negotiate, renew or complete these contracts due to governmental demands and delay and the highly competitive bidding processes for these contracts could affect our ability to offer these products to our clients, or to offer them to our clients at rates that are competitive to other forms of advertising, without adversely affecting our financial results. Future acquisitions and other strategic transactions could pose risks We frequently evaluate strategic opportunities both within and outside our existing lines of business. We expect from time to time to pursue additional acquisitions and may decide to dispose of certain businesses. These acquisitions or dispositions could be material. Our acquisition strategy involves numerous risks, including: • certain of our acquisitions may prove unprofitable and fail to generate anticipated cash flows; • to successfully manage our large portfolio of broadcasting, outdoor advertising and other properties, we may need to: • recruit additional senior management as we cannot be assured that senior management of acquired companies will continue to work for us and we cannot be certain that any of our recruiting efforts will succeed, and • expand corporate infrastructure to facilitate the integration of our operations with those of acquired properties, because failure to do so may cause us to lose the benefits of any expansion that we decide to undertake by leading to disruptions in our ongoing businesses or by distracting our management; 17 Table of Contents • we may enter into markets and geographic areas where we have limited or no experience; • we may encounter difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; • our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; and • we may lose key employees of acquired companies or stations. Additional acquisitions by us of radio stations and outdoor advertising properties may require antitrust review by federal antitrust agencies and may require review by foreign antitrust agencies under the antitrust laws of foreign jurisdictions. We can give no assurances that the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”), the Federal Trade Commission or foreign antitrust agencies will not seek to bar us from acquiring additional radio stations or outdoor advertising properties in any market where we already have a significant position. The DOJ actively reviews proposed acquisitions of outdoor advertising properties and radio broadcasting assets. In addition, the antitrust laws of foreign jurisdictions will apply if we acquire international outdoor properties or radio broadcasting properties. Further, radio station acquisitions by us are subject to FCC approval. Such acquisitions must comply with the Communications Act and FCC regulatory requirements and policies, including with respect to the number of broadcast facilities in which a person or entity may have an ownership or attributable interest, in a given local market, and the level of interest that may be held by a foreign individual or entity. The FCC’s media ownership rules remain subject to ongoing agency and court proceedings. Future changes could restrict our ability to acquire new radio stations. Our cost savings initiatives may not be entirely successful In the fourth quarter of 2008, we initiated a restructuring program targeting a reduction in fixed costs through renegotiations of lease agreements, workforce reductions, the elimination of overlapping functions and other cost savings initiatives. We incurred restructuring and other expenses under the program, and have incurred additional such expenses during 2010. We may incur additional expenses through ongoing cost-saving initiatives in the future. No assurance can be given that anticipated cost savings will be achieved in the timeframe expected or at all, or for how long any cost savings will persist. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock may be volatile The market price of our Class A common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including, without limitation: • as a result of the risk factors listed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • reasons unrelated to operating performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions, or negative announcements by our customers or competitors regarding their own performance; • regulatory changes that could impact our business; and • general economic and industry conditions. Shares of our Class A common stock are quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The lack of an active market may impair the ability of holders of our Class A common stock to sell their shares of Class A common stock at the time they wish to sell them or at a price that they consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair market value of the shares of our Class A common stock. There is no assurance that holders of our Class A common stock will ever receive cash dividends We have never paid cash dividends on our Class A common stock, and there is no guarantee that we will ever pay cash dividends on our Class A common stock in the future. The terms of our credit facilities restrict our ability to pay cash dividends on our Class A common stock. In addition to those restrictions, under Delaware law, we are permitted to pay cash dividends on our capital stock only out of our surplus, which in general terms means the excess of our net assets over the original aggregate par value of its stock. In the event we have no surplus, we are permitted to pay these cash dividends out of our net profits for the year in which the dividend is declared or in the immediately preceding year. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that, if we wish to pay cash dividends, we would be able to do so pursuant to Delaware law. Also, even if we are not prohibited from paying cash dividends by the terms of our debt or by law, other factors such as the need to reinvest cash back into our operations may prompt our Board of Directors to elect not to pay cash dividends. 18 Table of Contents Entities advised by or affiliated with THL and Bain Capital control us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future Entities advised by or affiliated with THL and Bain Capital currently indirectly control us through their ownership of all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, which represent approximately 72% of the voting power of all of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, THL and Bain Capital have the power to elect all but two of our directors (and, in addition, the Company has agreed that each of Mark P. Mays and Randall T. Mays shall serve as directors of the Company pursuant to the terms of their respective amended and restated employment agreements), appoint new management and approve any action requiring the approval of the holders of our capital stock, including adopting any amendments to our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation, and approving mergers or sales of substantially all of our capital stock or assets. The directors elected by THL and Bain Capital will have significant authority to effect decisions affecting us, including the issuance of additional capital stock, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the implementation of stock repurchase programs and the decision of whether or not to declare dividends. Additionally, THL and Bain Capital are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or more of the entities advised by or affiliated with THL or Bain Capital may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as entities advised by or affiliated with THL and Bain Capital directly or indirectly own a significant amount of the voting power of our capital stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, THL and Bain Capital will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. We may terminate our Exchange Act reporting, if permitted by applicable law If at any time our Class A common stock is held by fewer than 300 holders of record, we will be permitted to cease to be a reporting company under the Exchange Act to the extent we are not otherwise required to continue to report pursuant to any contractual agreements, including with respect to any of our indebtedness. If we were to cease filing reports under the Exchange Act, the information now available to our stockholders in the annual, quarterly and other reports we currently file with the SEC would not be available to them as a matter of right. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our subsidiary, Clear Channel, may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of its indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy its obligations under its indebtedness, which may not be successful We have substantial amounts of indebtedness. At December 31, 2010, we had $20.6 billion of total indebtedness outstanding, including (i) $13.7 billion aggregate principal amount outstanding under Clear Channel’s senior secured credit facilities, which obligations mature at various dates from 2014 through 2016; (ii) $384.2 million outstanding under Clear Channel’s receivables based facility, which matures in 2014; (iii) $796.3 million and $829.8 million outstanding under the senior cash pay notes and senior toggle notes, respectively, which mature in August 2016; (iv) $2.3 billion outstanding under Clear Channel’s senior notes, net of $623.3 million in unamortized discounts; (v) $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount outstanding of subsidiary senior notes, which mature in 2017; and (vi) $67.8 million outstanding under other unsecured senior debt and long-term obligations. This large amount of indebtedness could have negative consequences for us, including, without limitation: • dedicating a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, thereby reducing cash available for other purposes, including to fund operations and capital expenditures, invest in new technology and pursue other business opportunities; • limiting our liquidity and operational flexibility and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • limiting our ability to adjust to changing economic, business and competitive conditions; • requiring us to defer planned capital expenditures, reduce discretionary spending, sell assets, restructure existing indebtedness or defer acquisitions or other strategic opportunities; • limiting our ability to refinance any of the indebtedness or increasing the cost of any such financing in any downturn in our operating performance or decline in general economic conditions; • making us more vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or a decline in general economic conditions; and • making us more susceptible to changes in credit ratings, which could impact our ability to obtain financing in the future and increase the cost of such financing. 19 Table of Contents If compliance with Clear Channel’s debt obligations materially hinders our ability to operate our business and adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may suffer. The terms of Clear Channel’s credit facilities and other indebtedness allow us, under certain conditions, to incur further indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, which heightens the foregoing risks. Clear Channel’s ability to make scheduled payments on its debt obligations depends on its financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond its or our control. Clear Channel may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit it to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on its indebtedness. If Clear Channel’s cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund its debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance the indebtedness. We may not be able to take any of these actions, and these actions may not be successful or permit us or Clear Channel to meet the scheduled debt service obligations. Furthermore, these actions may not be permitted under the terms of existing or future debt agreements. The ability to restructure or refinance Clear Channel’s debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of the debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us and Clear Channel to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us or Clear Channel to meet scheduled debt service obligations. If we or Clear Channel cannot make scheduled payments on indebtedness we both will be in default under one or more of the debt agreements and, as a result we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. The documents governing Clear Channel’s indebtedness contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business Clear Channel’s material financing agreements, including its credit agreements and indentures, contain various covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: • make acquisitions or investments; • make loans or otherwise extend credit to others; • incur indebtedness or issue shares or guarantees; • create security; • sell, lease, transfer or dispose of assets; • merge or consolidate with other companies; and • make a substantial change to the general nature of our business. In addition, under Clear Channel’s senior secured credit facilities, Clear Channel is required to comply with certain affirmative covenants and certain specified financial covenants and ratios. For instance, Clear Channel’s senior secured credit facilities require it to comply on a quarterly basis with a financial covenant limiting the ratio of its consolidated secured debt, net of cash and cash equivalents, to its consolidated EBITDA (as defined under the terms of the senior secured credit facilities) for the preceding four quarters. The restrictions contained in Clear Channel’s credit agreements and indentures could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to react to market conditions or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. For example, such restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, make strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances, restructure our organization or finance our capital needs. Additionally, the ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond Clear Channel’s or our control. These include prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If any of these covenants or restrictions are breached, Clear Channel could be in default under the agreements governing its indebtedness, and as a result we would be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Except for the historical information, this report contains various forward-looking statements which represent our expectations or beliefs concerning future events, including, without limitation, our future operating and financial performance and availability of capital and the terms thereof. Statements expressing expectations 20 Table of Contents and projections with respect to future matters are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We caution that these forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are subject to many variables which could impact our future performance. These statements are made on the basis of management’s views and assumptions, as of the time the statements are made, regarding future events and performance. There can be no assurance, however, that management’s expectations will necessarily come to pass. We do not intend, nor do we undertake any duty, to update any forward-looking statements. A wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance, including: • the impact of the substantial indebtedness incurred to finance the consummation of the merger, including the effect of our leverage on our financial position and earnings; • the need to allocate significant amounts of our cash flow to make payments on our indebtedness, which in turn could reduce our financial flexibility and ability to fund other activities; • risks associated with a global economic downturn and its impact on capital markets; • other general economic and political conditions in the United States and in other countries in which we currently do business, including those resulting from recessions, political events and acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; • the impact of the geopolitical environment; • industry conditions, including competition; • fluctuations in operating costs; • technological changes and innovations; • changes in labor conditions; • legislative or regulatory requirements; • capital expenditure requirements; • fluctuations in exchange rates and currency values; • the outcome of pending and future litigation; • changes in interest rates; • taxes; • shifts in population and other demographics; • access to capital markets and borrowed indebtedness; • the risk that we may not be able to integrate the operations of recently acquired companies successfully; • the risk that our cost savings initiatives may not be entirely successful or that any cost savings achieved from those initiatives may not persist; and • certain other factors set forth in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This list of factors that may affect future performance and the accuracy of forward-looking statements is illustrative and is not intended to be exhaustive. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 