Item 1A. Risk Factors Changing interest rates may hurt our profits and asset values. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: • the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and 36 Table of Contents • the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Our liabilities generally have shorter maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility as market interest rates change. In periods of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities, resulting in a decline in our net interest income. In periods of declining interest rates, our interest income is generally positively affected although such positive effects may be reduced or eliminated by prepayments of loans and redemptions of callable securities. In addition, when long-term interest rates are not significantly higher than short-term rates thus creating a “flat” yield curve, the Company’s interest rate spread will decrease thus reducing net interest income. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. As December 31, 2007, the fair value of our securities classified as available for sale totalled $96.0 million. Unrealized net losses on available-for-sale securities totalled $339,000 at December 31, 2007 and are reported, net of tax, as a separate component of shareholder’s equity. A rise in interest rates could cause a further decrease in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods which would have an adverse effect on shareholder’s equity. Depending on market conditions, we often place more emphasis on enhancing our net interest margin rather than matching the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities. In particular, we believe that the increased net interest income resulting from a mismatch in the maturity of our asset and liabilities portfolios can, during periods of stable or declining interest rates provide high enough returns to justify increased exposure to sudden and unexpected increases in interest rates. As a result, our results of operations and the economic value of our equity will remain vulnerable to increases in interest rates and to declines in the difference between long- and short-term rates. See “Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” We are increasing our commercial real estate loan originations, which increases the risk in our loan portfolio. In order to enhance the yield and shorten the term-to-maturity of our loan portfolio, we have expanded our commercial real estate lending during recent years. In addition, we acquired a significant portfolio of such loans in the City Savings Bank Merger. Commercial real estate lending has increased as a percentage of our total loan portfolio from 18.5% at December 31, 2002 to 26.7% at December 31, 2007. In addition, effective August 15, 2007 we hired a new Vice President of Commercial and Consumer Lending who we hope will assist us in expanding this portfolio. Given their larger balances and the complexity of the underlying collateral, commercial real estate loans generally expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by owner occupied one- to four-family real estate. In addition, our multi-family commercial real estate loan portfolio is not as seasoned as the loan portfolios of some of our competitors. Should the local real estate market or economy weaken, we may begin to experience higher levels of nonperforming loans. Slow growth in our market area has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our performance. Economic and population growth within our market area has for several decades been below the national average. Management believes that these factors have adversely affected our profitability and our ability to increase our loans and deposits. Although our acquisition of City Savings Financial Corporation facilitated our entrance into the Michigan City and Chesterton, Indiana markets, which are growing more rapidly than Eastern LaPorte County, our operations remain subject to market conditions in Eastern LaPorte County. A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. A majority of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in areas where our offices are located. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would hurt our profits. We believe that the local economy is in fact beginning a downturn consistent with national trends although the duration and extent of the downturn are unclear at this time. 37 Table of Contents In recent years, there has been a modest increase in real estate values in our market area. However, we believe that the real estate market in our market area is starting to soften and that values will remain flat and may possibly decline. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. Additionally, a decline in real estate values could adversely impact our portfolio of commercial and other real estate loans and could result in a decline in the origination of such loans. For a discussion of our market area, see “Item 1. Business—Market Area.” Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition in making loans, attracting deposits and hiring and retaining experienced employees. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits sometimes results in us charging lower interest rates on our loans and paying higher interest rates on our deposits, which reduces our net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult and costly to attract and retain qualified employees. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. For more information about our market area and the competition we face, see “Item 1. Business—Market Area” and “Item 1. Business—Competition.” We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits, and by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions as our primary regulator. LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC and LaPorte Bancorp are subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of The LaPorte Savings Bank rather than for holders of LaPorte Bancorp common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Stock price may be volatile due to limited trading volume. LaPorte Bancorp, Inc.’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market System. However, the average daily trading volume in the Stock Company’s common stock has been relatively small, averaging less than approximately 3,397 shares per day during the month of December 2007. As a result, trades involving a relatively small number of shares may have a significant effect on the market price of the common stock, and it may be difficult for investors to acquire or dispose of large blocks of stock without significantly affecting the market price. Public stockholders own a minority of LaPorte Bancorp, Inc.’s common stock and will not be able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. LaPorte Bancorp, Inc.’s holding company, LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC owns approximately 52.7% of its common stock. Directors and executive officers own or control approximately 2.5% of the common stock. The same directors and executive officers that manage LaPorte Bancorp, Inc., also manage LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC. Public stockholders who are not associated with the MHC or LaPorte Bancorp, Inc. own approximately 44.8% of the common stock. The Board of Directors of LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC will be able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders because the MHC owns a majority of LaPorte Bancorp, Inc.’s common stock. For example, LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC may exercise its voting control to prevent a sale or merger transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium for their shares or to approve employee benefit plans. 38 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 