Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other written and oral communications from time to time. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We may experience significant quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below the guidance, if any, we provide to the market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Factors that may affect our operating results include: • our ability to increase sales to existing customers and to renew agreements with our existing customers at comparable prices, particularly larger retail customers; • our ability to attract new customers, particularly larger retail and consumer products customers in both domestic and foreign markets; • our ability to achieve success with our “nextGEN” strategy; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors, or pricing pressure on our software services; • periodic fluctuations in demand for our software and services; • volatility in the sales of our solutions on a quarterly basis and timing of the execution of new and renewal agreements within such quarterly periods; • reductions in customers’ budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles, particularly in light of recent adverse global economic conditions; • our ability to develop and implement in a timely manner new software and enhancements that meet customer requirements; • our ability to hire, train and retain key personnel; • any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including new entrants or substantial discounting of products; • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; • any significant change in our facilities-related costs; • the timing of hiring personnel and of large expenses such as those for trade shows and third-party professional services; • general economic conditions in the retail and CP markets; • our ability to appropriately resolve any disputes with customers; • outages and capacity constraints with our hosting partners; and 23 Table of Contents • the impact of a recession or any other adverse global economic conditions on our business, including a delay in signing or a failure to sign significant customer agreements. We have in the past experienced, and we may continue to experience, significant variations in our level of sales on a quarterly basis. In recent periods, several of our customers have delayed or failed to renew their agreements with us upon expiration, or have renewed at lower prices. Such variations in our sales, or delays in signing or a failure to sign or renew significant customer agreements, have led to significant fluctuations in our cash flows and deferred revenue on a quarterly and annual basis. For example, we used approximately $6.8 million of net cash in operations in fiscal 2010, primarily due to the use of $10.5 million of net cash in operations in the third quarter, while we generated approximately $13.8 million of net cash from operations in fiscal 2009. Our operating results have been impacted, and will likely continue to be impacted in the near term, by any delays in signing or failures to sign significant customer agreements. If the global economic environment does not improve in the short term and delays in signing customer agreements continue in any future fiscal quarters, our future operating results for any such quarter and for subsequent quarters may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which may result in a decline in our stock price. In September 2009, we entered into a lease agreement for office space in San Mateo, California that we use as our new corporate headquarters, replacing our then-existing corporate headquarters in San Carlos, California. The lease has a total lease term of eight years with an initial non-cancellable lease term of five years commencing December 1, 2009. The aggregate minimum lease commitment is approximately $10.1 million. Upon commencement of this lease, our monthly rent payments increased significantly both immediately and in the long term over our monthly rent payments for our prior space, and quarterly real estate-related operating expenses that we incur increased by approximately $207,000. If our revenue does not increase or our operating expenses do not decrease to offset this increase in real estate-related operating expenses, or if we are unable to find suitable tenants to sublease a significant portion of this space in the event we are unable to sufficiently grow our business in the future, then our results of operations and financial position will be materially adversely impacted. In addition, in the past, certain of our customers have filed for bankruptcy protection. For example, during fiscal 2010, two of our customers, Bi-Lo LLC and The Penn Traffic Company, filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Our agreements with these customers have subsequently been terminated. Our aggregate revenue from Bi-Lo and Penn Traffic in fiscal 2010 was approximately $3.4 million. It is possible that any customers or potential customers seeking bankruptcy protection could seek to cancel their agreements with us, or could elect not to purchase new or additional services or renew such services with us, or could fail to pay us according to our contractual terms, any of which would negatively impact our results of operations or financial position in the future. We have a history of losses and we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have a history of losses and have not achieved profitability in any fiscal year. We experienced net losses of $11.8 million, $5.0 million and $4.5 million in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. At February 28, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $89.2 million. We expect to continue to incur net losses in fiscal 2011 and perhaps beyond. In addition, our cost of revenue and operating expenses may increase in future periods as we implement initiatives to continue to grow our business. If the recent adverse global economic environment continues to negatively impact our business and our revenue does not increase to offset these expected increases in cost of revenue and operating expenses, we will not be profitable. For example, in fiscal 2010 our costs grew faster than our revenue such that our net loss increased to $11.8 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $5.0 million in fiscal 2009. In the near term, our revenue growth may continue to slow, or revenue itself may decline from prior periods. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. The effects of recent adverse global economic conditions may adversely impact our business, operating results or financial condition. Recent adverse global economic conditions have caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets, and economic contraction. The retail and consumer products industries have been and may continue to be especially hard hit by these economic developments, which in recent periods has resulted in some customers 24 Table of Contents delaying or not entering into new agreements or renewing their existing agreements with us. In addition, current or potential customers may not have funds to enter into or renew their agreements for our software and services, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our software and services, to renew at lower prices, or to not pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased software and services. Financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions), or financing activities. Finally, our investment portfolio, which includes short-term debt securities, is subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the ongoing global financial conditions. If the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. We depend on a small number of customers, which are primarily large retailers, and our growth, if any, depends upon our ability to add new and retain existing large customers. We derive a significant percentage of our revenue from a relatively small number of customers, and the loss of any one or more of those customers could decrease our revenue and harm our current and future operating results. Our retail customers accounted for 82% of our revenue in fiscal 2010. Our three largest customers accounted for approximately 29% and 30% of our revenue in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. Although our largest customers may vary from period to period, we anticipate that we will continue to depend on revenue from a relatively small number of our large retail customers. We have recently become involved in a dispute with a large customer relating to a development project with that customer. See “Risk Factors — Third-party claims and litigation could seriously harm our business.” Further, our ability to grow revenue depends on our ability to increase sales to existing customers, to renew agreements with our existing customers and to attract new customers. In fiscal 2010 we did not add any significant large new retail customers. If economic factors, including the recent adverse global economic conditions, were to have a continued or increasingly negative impact on the retail market segment, it could reduce the amount that these customers spend on information technology, which would adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our business depends substantially on customers renewing their agreements for our software. Any decline in our customer renewals would harm our operating results. To maintain and grow our revenue, we must achieve and maintain high levels of customer renewals. We sell our software pursuant to agreements with initial terms that are generally from one to three years in length. Our customers have no obligation to renew their agreements after the expiration of their term, and we cannot assure you that these agreements will be renewed on favorable terms, renewed timely, or at all. The fees we charge for our solutions vary based on a number of factors, including the software, service and hosting components provided, the size of the customer, and the duration of the agreement term. Our initial agreements with customers may include fees for software, services or hosting components that may not be needed upon renewal. As a consequence, if we renew these agreements, we may receive lower total fees. In addition, if an agreement is renewed for a term longer than the preceding term, we may receive total fees in excess of total fees received in the initial agreement but a smaller average annual fee because we generally charge lower annual fees in connection with agreements with longer terms. In any of these situations, we would need to sell additional software, services or hosting in order to maintain the same level of annual fees from that customer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew these agreements, sell additional software or services or sell to new customers. In recent periods certain of our customers have elected not to renew their agreements with us or have renewed on less favorable terms. We have limited historical data with respect to customer renewals, so we may not be able to predict future customer renewal rates and amounts accurately. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our software, the price of our software, the prices of competing products and services, consolidation within our customer base or reductions in our customers’ information technology spending levels. If our customers do not renew their agreements for our software for any reason, or if they renew on less favorable terms, our revenue will decline and our cash flow will be negatively impacted. 25 Table of Contents Because we generally recognize revenue ratably over the terms of our customer agreements, the lack of renewals or the failure to enter into new agreements may not immediately be reflected in our statement of operations in any significant manner but may negatively affect revenue in future quarters. We generally recognize revenue ratably over the terms of our customer agreements and invoice our customers in advance for annual use of our software and certain implementation services on a fixed fee basis. As a result, most of our quarterly revenue results from agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed agreements in a particular quarter, as well as any renewals at reduced annual dollar amounts, will not be reflected in any significant manner in our revenue for that quarter, but it will negatively affect revenue in future quarters. For example, in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010 the global economic environment deteriorated compared to prior periods. This has resulted in delays in the execution of new and some renewal customer contracts, with some customers or potential customers electing not to enter into new or renewal contracts, and some other customers renewing at lower prices. Accordingly, our revenue growth has slowed, and our deferred revenue balance at February 28, 2010 was lower compared to prior periods, which may adversely impact our revenue in the future. We may expand through acquisitions of and/or partnership with other companies, which may divert our management’s attention and result in unexpected operating and technology integration difficulties, increased costs and dilution to our stockholders. Our business strategy may include acquiring complementary software, technologies, or businesses. For instance, in February 2009, we acquired Connect3, a provider of advertising planning and execution software. Acquisitions may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties in assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, services, products, personnel, or operations of the acquired companies (including those of Connect3), especially if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, and we may have difficulty retaining the existing customers or signing new customers of any acquired business or migrating them to a software-as-a-service model. For instance, we are currently integrating Connect3’s technology, which was offered solely on an installed, behind-the-firewall basis, into our DemandTec End-to-End Promotion Management solution, and we may not be successful in completing this integration on a timely basis or at all. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our current business. We also may be required to use a substantial amount of our cash or issue equity securities to complete an acquisition, which could deplete our cash reserves and dilute our existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, including our revenue or return on investment assumptions, would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities. In addition, an acquisition may negatively impact our results of operations because we may incur additional expenses relating to one-time charges, write-downs, amortization of intangible assets, or tax-related expenses. For example, our acquisition of TradePoint in November 2006 resulted in approximately $911,000 of amortization of purchased intangible assets in fiscal 2010, and $967,000 in each of fiscal 2009 and 2008, and will result in amortization of approximately $800,000 in fiscal 2011 with declining amounts for more than six years thereafter. Our acquisition of Connect3 resulted in the write-off of $150,000 of in-process research and development costs in fiscal 2009 and amortization of purchased intangible assets of approximately $2.2 million in fiscal 2010, and will result in approximately $1.8 million and $626,000 of amortization expense in fiscal 2011 and 2012, respectively. We might require additional capital to support our business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including continued economic concerns as well as the need to develop new software or enhance our existing software, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. In May 2009, we amended our loan agreement that we had entered in April 2008 with a financial institution to, among other things, extend the maturity date to May 7, 2012 and increase our revolving line of credit from $15.0 million to $20.0 million. However, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into additional credit agreements to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity 26 Table of Contents securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters that make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Our sales cycles are long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. We market our software to large retailers and CP companies, and sales to these customers are complex efforts that involve educating our customers about the use and benefits of our software, including its technical capabilities. Customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process that can result in a lengthy sales cycle, in some cases over 12 months. We spend substantial time, effort, and money in our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will generate long-term agreements. In addition, customer sales decisions are frequently influenced by global macroeconomic factors, budget constraints, multiple approvals, and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. If sales expected from a specific customer are not realized, our revenue and, thus, our future operating results could be adversely impacted. Our business will be adversely affected if the retail and CP industries do not widely adopt technology solutions incorporating scientific techniques to understand and predict consumer demand to make pricing and other merchandising decisions. Our software addresses the new and emerging market of applying econometric modeling and optimization techniques through software to enable retailers and CP companies to understand and predict consumer demand in order to improve their pricing, promotion, and other merchandising and marketing decisions. These decisions are fundamental to retailers and CP companies; accordingly, our target customers may be hesitant to accept the risk inherent in applying and relying on new technologies or methodologies to supplant traditional methods. Our business will not be successful if retailers and CP companies do not accept the use of software to enable more strategic pricing and other merchandising decisions. If we are unable to continue to enhance our current software, which is becoming increasingly complex, or to develop or acquire new software to address changing business requirements, we may not be able to attract or retain customers. Our ability to attract new customers, renew agreements with existing customers and maintain or increase revenue from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to anticipate the changing needs of the retail and CP industries, to enhance our increasingly complex existing software and to introduce new software that meet those needs. Certain of our implementation and integration engagements, particularly with respect to initial deployment with larger customers, have become increasingly complex. Further, certain of our engagements require, and other future engagements may require, us to develop certain customer-specific functionality. Such engagements can be significantly more time-consuming and complicated than our other customer engagements. Any new software may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve market acceptance, meet customer expectations or contractual commitments, or generate revenue sufficient to recoup the cost of development or acquisition of such software. For example, we have not yet completed development or achieved market acceptance of certain components of our solutions underlying our “nextGEN” strategy. Further, we have recently become involved in a dispute with a large customer relating to a development project with that customer. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new software and enhance our existing applications to meet customer requirements, we may not be able to attract or retain customers. 27 Table of Contents Understanding and predicting consumer behavior is dependent upon the continued availability of accurate and relevant data from retailers and third-party data aggregators. If we are unable to obtain access to relevant data, or if we do not enhance our core science and econometric modeling methodologies to adjust for changing consumer behavior, our software may become less competitive or obsolete. The ability of our econometric models to forecast consumer demand depends upon the assumptions we make in designing the models and in the quality of the data we use to build them. Our models rely on point of sale (POS), transaction log or loyalty program data provided to us directly by our retail customers and by third-party data aggregators. Consumer behavior is affected by many factors, including evolving consumer needs and preferences, new competitive product offerings, more targeted merchandising and marketing, emerging industry standards, and changing technology. Data adequately representing all of these factors may not be readily available in certain geographies or in certain markets. In addition, the relative importance of the variables that influence demand will change over time, particularly with the continued growth of the Internet as a viable retail alternative and the emergence of non-traditional marketing channels. If our retail customers are unable to collect POS, transaction log or loyalty program data or we are unable to obtain such data from them or from third-party data aggregators, or if we fail to enhance our core science and modeling methodologies to adjust for changes in consumer behavior, customers may delay or decide against purchases or renewals of our software. We rely on our management team and will need additional personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to attract, retain and motivate our management team and our other key personnel. Our professional services organization and other customer-facing groups, in particular, play an instrumental role in ensuring our customers’ satisfaction. In addition, our science, engineering, and modeling team requires experts in econometrics and advanced mathematics, and there are a limited number of individuals with the education and training necessary to fill these roles should we experience employee departures. All of our employees work for us on an at-will basis, and there is no assurance that any employee will remain with us. Our competitors may be successful in recruiting and hiring members of our executive management team or other key employees, and it may be difficult for us to find suitable replacements on a timely basis. Many of the members of our management team and key employees are substantially vested in their shares of our common stock or options to purchase shares of our common stock, and therefore retention of these employees may be difficult in the highly competitive market and geography in which we operate our business. We have derived most of our revenue from sales to our retail customers. If our software is not widely accepted by CP companies, our ability to grow our revenue and achieve our strategic objectives will be harmed. To date, we have derived most of our revenue from retail customers. During fiscal 2010, we generated approximately 82% of our revenue from sales to retail customers, while we generated approximately 18% of our revenue from sales to CP companies. In fiscal 2009, we generated approximately 86% of our revenue from sales to retail customers while we generated approximately 14% of our revenue from sales to CP companies. In order to grow our revenue and to achieve our long-term strategic objectives, it is important for us to expand our sales to derive a more significant portion of our revenue from new and existing CP customers. If CP companies do not widely accept our software, our revenue growth and business will be harmed. We face intense competition that could prevent us from increasing our revenue and prevent us from becoming profitable. The market for our software is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services they offer. Currently, we face competition from traditional enterprise software application vendors such as Oracle Corporation and SAP AG, niche retail software vendors such as KSS Group (recently acquired by dunnhumby USA), and statistical tool vendors such as SAS, Inc. To a lesser extent, we also compete or potentially compete with marketing information providers for the CP industry such as The Nielsen Company and Information Resources, Inc., as well as business consulting firms such as McKinsey & Company, Inc., Deloitte & Touche LLP and Accenture LLP, which offer 28 Table of Contents merchandising consulting services and analyses. Because the market for our solutions is relatively new, we expect to face additional competition from other established and emerging companies and, potentially, from internally-developed applications. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and a failure to increase, or the loss of, market share. Competitive offerings may have better performance, lower prices and broader acceptance than our software. Many of our current or potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, research and development, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, our competition may be able to offer more effective software or may opt to include software competitive to our software as part of broader, enterprise software solutions at little or no charge. We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against our current or future competitors, and our failure to do so could seriously harm our business. We rely on three third-party service providers to host our software, and any interruptions or delays in services from these third parties could impair the delivery of our software as a service. We deliver our software to customers over the Internet. The software is hosted in three third-party data centers located in San Jose, California, Sacramento, California, and Mesa, Arizona. We do not control the operation of any of these facilities, and we rely on these service providers to provide all power, connectivity and physical security. These facilities could be vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of a natural disaster or intentional misconduct, a decision to close these facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Additionally, because we currently rely upon disk and tape bond back-up procedures, but do not operate or maintain a fully-redundant back-up site, there is an increased risk of service interruption. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our customers’ data, our operations may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our software and we may incur significant liabilities. Our operations involve the storage and transmission of our customers’ confidential information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our customers’ data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose potential sales and existing customers. If we fail to respond to rapidly changing technological developments or evolving industry standards, our software may become less competitive or obsolete. Because our software is designed to operate on a variety of network, hardware and software platforms using standard Internet tools and protocols, we will need to modify and enhance our software continuously to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. Furthermore, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new network platforms or technologies, or modifications to existing platforms or technologies, could increase our research and development expenses. If we are unable to respond in a timely manner to these rapid technological developments, our software may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete. Our use of open source software and third-party technology could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our software. We incorporate open source software into our software. Although we monitor our use of open source software closely, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our 29 Table of Contents ability to commercialize our software. In that event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our software, to re-engineer our technology or to discontinue offering our software in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We also incorporate certain third-party technologies, including software programs and algorithms, into our software and may desire to incorporate additional third-party technologies in the future. Licenses to new third-party technologies may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed and we could be required to incur significant expenses in order to enforce our rights. To protect our proprietary technology, including our core statistical and mathematic models and our software, we rely on trade secret, patent, copyright, service mark, trademark and other proprietary rights laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, and our ability to police that misappropriation or infringement is uncertain, particularly in countries outside of the United States, including China where a third party conducts a portion of our development activity for us. Further, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Our current patents and any future patents that may be issued may be contested, circumvented or invalidated. Moreover, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop technologies similar or superior to our own now or in the future. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our trade secrets, patents, copyrights, service marks, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and not always possible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could be costly and divert management resources, either of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforcing their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the unauthorized use or the reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our legal actions against these infringers being successful, but we cannot be sure these actions will be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are available or where we have development work performed. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. Material defects or errors in our software or any failure to meet service level agreements with our customers could harm our reputation, result in significant expense to us and impair our ability to sell our software. Our software is inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors that may cause it to fail to perform in accordance with customer expectations. Any defects that cause interruptions to the availability of our software could result in lost or delayed market acceptance and sales, require us to provide sales credits or issue refunds to our customers, cause existing customers not to renew their agreements and prospective customers not to purchase our software, divert development resources, hurt our reputation and expose us to claims for liability. After the release of our software, defects or errors may also be identified from time to time by our internal team and by our customers. In addition, we have occasionally entered into service level agreements with our customers warranting defined levels of uptime reliability and performance and permitting those customers to receive service credits or discounted future services, or to terminate their agreements in the event that we fail to meet those levels. The costs 30 Table of Contents incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our software or in failing to meet any such service levels may be substantial. Because our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand sales of our software to customers located outside of the United States, our business may be increasingly susceptible to risks associated with international operations. We have limited experience operating in international jurisdictions. In each of fiscal 2010 and 2009, 14% of our revenue was attributable to sales to companies located outside the United States. Our inexperience in operating our business outside of the United States increases the risk that any international expansion efforts that we may undertake will not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These include: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • localization of our software, including translation of the interface of our software into foreign languages and creation of localized agreements; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • tariffs and trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our software in certain international markets; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of international value added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of international laws and different legal standards, including local data privacy laws and local consumer protection laws that could regulate retailers’ permitted pricing and promotion practices; • political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and • reduced or varied protection of intellectual property rights in some countries. The occurrence of any of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our results of operations. Because portions of our software development, sustaining engineering, quality assurance and testing, operations and customer support are provided by a third party in China, our business is susceptible to risks associated with having substantial operations overseas. Portions of our software development, sustaining engineering, quality assurance and testing, operations and customer support are provided by Sonata Services Limited, or Sonata, a third party located in Shanghai, China. As of February 28, 2010, in addition to our 163 employees in our operations, customer support, science, product management and engineering groups located in the United States, an additional 65 Sonata personnel were dedicated to our projects. Remotely coordinating a third party in China requires significant management attention and substantial resources, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in coordinating these activities. Furthermore, if there is a disruption to these operations in China, it will require that substantial management attention and time be devoted to achieving resolution. If Sonata were to stop providing these services or if there was widespread departure of trained Sonata personnel, this could cause a disruption in our product development process, quality assurance and product release cycles and customer support organizations and require us to incur additional costs to replace and train new personnel. Enforcement of intellectual property rights and contractual rights may be more difficult in China. China has not developed a fully integrated legal system, and the array of new laws and regulations may not be sufficient to cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and 31 Table of Contents enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. Accordingly, the enforcement of our contractual arrangements with Sonata, our confidentiality agreements with each Sonata employee dedicated to our work, and the interpretation of the laws governing this relationship are subject to uncertainty. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. Ensuring that we have internal financial and accounting controls and procedures adequate to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we are required to perform annual system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In the future, our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in the future, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Furthermore, implementing any appropriate future changes to our internal control over financial reporting may entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, may take a significant period of time to complete and may distract our officers, directors and employees from the operation of our business. These changes, however, may not be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal control over financial reporting is inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may adversely affect our stock price. While neither we nor our independent registered public accounting firm has identified deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, there can be no assurance that material weaknesses will not be subsequently identified. If one or more of our key strategic relationships were to become impaired or if these third parties were to align with our competitors, our business could be harmed. We have relationships with a number of third parties whose products, technologies and services complement our software. Many of these third parties also compete with us or work with our competitors. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with the key third parties that currently recommend our software or that provide consulting services on our software implementations or if these third parties were to begin to recommend our competitors’ products and services, our business could be harmed. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary technology could harm our business. Third parties could claim that our software infringes their proprietary rights. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights, and we expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. In addition, to the extent that we gain greater visibility and market exposure as a public company, we will face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. Any claims of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial defense costs and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our software. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of the infringed intellectual 32 Table of Contents property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Alternatively, we might be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and might ultimately not be successful. Third parties may also assert infringement claims relating to our software against our customers. Any of these claims might require us to initiate or defend potentially protracted and costly litigation on their behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims, because in certain situations we agree to indemnify our customers from claims of infringement of proprietary rights of third parties. If any of these claims succeeds, we might be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers, which could materially adversely affect our business. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices could have a significant effect on our reported results and might affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. We have expanded our operations in recent periods. If we fail to manage this expansion effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of customer service or address competitive challenges adequately. We have expanded our overall business, headcount and operations in recent periods. For instance, our headcount grew from 198 employees at February 28, 2007 to 313 employees at February 28, 2010. Headcount in research and development increased from 99 employees at February 28, 2007 to 132 employees at February 28, 2010. We may need to continue to expand our operations in order to increase our customer base and to develop additional software. Increases in our customer base could create challenges in our ability to implement our software and support our customers. In addition, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting procedures. As a result, we may be unable to manage our business effectively in the future, which may negatively impact our operating results. Evolving regulation of the Internet may affect us adversely. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing, or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for our software and restricting our ability to store and process data for our customers. In addition, taxation of software provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based software, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Third-party claims and litigation could seriously harm our business. We have from time to time become involved in legal matters that arise in the normal course of business and otherwise. For example, we have recently become involved in a dispute with a large customer relating to a development project with that customer. We are currently assessing the potential impact of the dispute, which is at an early stage. There can be no assurance that the dispute or other third party claims and litigation that may arise in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, including a loss of customers, or subject us to significant financial or other remedies. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance efforts. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Market impose additional requirements on 33 Table of Contents public companies, including enhanced corporate governance practices. For example, the listing requirements for the NASDAQ Global Market provide that listed companies satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of business conduct. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to complying with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors and board committees or as executive officers and more expensive for us to obtain or maintain director and officer liability insurance. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been volatile in the past, may continue to be volatile, and may decline. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and may do so in the future. Further, our common stock has limited trading history. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock, many of which are beyond our control, could include: • variations in our operating results, including any decline in our revenues; • announcements of technological innovations, new products and services, acquisitions, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; • market conditions in our industry, the retail industry and the economy as a whole; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us or other disputes; • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business; and • the volume of trading in our common stock, including sales upon exercise of outstanding options. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence as has happened in recent periods, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results, or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class actions filed against them. A suit filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert management’s attention. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders, particularly our directors and executive officers and other significant stockholders, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or are perceived by the public market as intending to sell, the trading price of our common stock could decline. During fiscal 2010 Crosspoint Venture Partners, previously our largest stockholder, distributed all of the shares of our common stock held by them to their limited partners, which may impact, or may have impacted, our stock price adversely. 34 Table of Contents If securities analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us or our business. We have limited research coverage by securities analysts. If we do not obtain further securities analyst coverage, or if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Insiders and other significant stockholders have substantial control over us and will be able to influence corporate matters. At February 28, 2010, our directors, executive officers and holders of ten percent or more of our common stock beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 34.3% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause and only upon a majority stockholder vote; • provide that vacancies on our board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thus requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; • require supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws; and • require advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 35 Table of Contents 