Item 1A. Risk Factors The current economic crisis coupled with turmoil and uncertainty in the financial markets may adversely impact us and our ability to successfully execute our business plan. The current economic crisis is adversely impacting the financial condition of the households and businesses comprising our loan customers. Such a deteriorating financial condition could arise from loss of employment or business revenue exacerbated by a reduction in the value of real estate collateralizing our customers’ loans. As a consequence, we may experience an increase in nonperforming loans which will negatively impact earnings through reduced collections of interest income coupled with possible increases in the provision for loan losses, charge offs and foreclosure costs. Our ability to originate new loans in accordance with our business plan goals and objectives may also be diminished as a result of these same factors. Moreover, the general level of uncertainty and volatility in the marketplace has greatly diminished the sources of funding readily available to many large financial institutions. Consequently, such institutions are placing greater emphasis on their retail deposit channel to attract funding thereby placing upward pressure on retail deposit rates in the marketplace. As a result, despite the recent reduction in overall market interest rates, our cost of deposits may remain stable or increase while our yield on earning assets is reduced. This condition would reduce our net interest spread and margin and our earnings in future periods. Finally, although the Federal government has initiated a number of programs designed to both stimulate the economy as well stabilize the real estate and banking sectors, it is unclear how effective they will be over the short- and long-term. Also, it is unclear what long-term effects these initiatives will have on our operations. Changing interest rates may hurt our profits and asset values. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: • the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Our liabilities generally have shorter maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility as market interest rates change. In periods of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities, resulting in a decline in our net interest income. In periods of declining interest rates, our net interest income is generally positively affected although such positive effects may be reduced or eliminated by prepayments of loans and redemptions of callable securities. In addition, when long-term interest rates are not significantly higher than short-term rates thus creating a “flat” yield curve, the Company’s interest rate spread will decrease thus reducing net interest income. Finally, federal initiatives designed to reduce mortgage interest spreads may reduce our loan income without a corresponding reduction in funding costs, thus decreasing our spreads. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. As December 31, 2008, the fair value of our securities classified as available for sale totalled $101.5 million. Unrealized net gains on available-for-sale securities totalled $581,000 at December 31, 2008 and are 38 Table of Contents reported, net of tax, as a separate component of shareholder’s equity. However, a rise in interest rates could cause a decrease in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods which would have an adverse effect on shareholder’s equity. Depending on market conditions, we often place more emphasis on enhancing our net interest margin rather than matching the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities. In particular, we believe that the increased net interest income resulting from a mismatch in the maturity of our asset and liabilities portfolios can, during periods of stable or declining interest rates provide high enough returns to justify increased exposure to sudden and unexpected increases in interest rates. As a result, our results of operations and the economic value of our equity will remain vulnerable to increases in interest rates and to declines in the difference between long- and short-term rates. See “Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” We have increased our commercial real estate loan originations, which increases the risk in our loan portfolio. In order to enhance the yield and shorten the term-to-maturity of our loan portfolio, we have expanded our commercial real estate lending during recent years. In addition, we acquired a significant portfolio of such loans in the City Savings Bank merger in 2007. Commercial real estate lending has increased as a percentage of our total loan portfolio from 18.5% at December 31, 2002 to 29.27% at December 31, 2008. Given their larger balances and the complexity of the underlying collateral, commercial real estate loans generally expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by owner occupied one- to four-family real estate. In addition, our commercial real estate loan portfolio is not as seasoned as the loan portfolios of some of our competitors. In light of the current dramatic weakness in the real estate market and economy, we may begin to experience higher levels of nonperforming loans and provisions for loan losses. Slow growth in our market area has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our performance. Economic and population growth within our market area has for several decades been below the national average. Management believes that these factors have adversely affected our profitability and our ability to increase our loans and deposits. Although our acquisition of City Savings Financial Corporation facilitated our entrance into the Michigan City and Chesterton, Indiana markets, which are growing more rapidly than Eastern LaPorte County, our operations remain subject to market conditions in Eastern LaPorte County. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition in making loans, attracting deposits and hiring and retaining experienced employees. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits sometimes results in us charging lower interest rates on our loans and paying higher interest rates on our deposits, which reduces our net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult and costly to attract and retain qualified employees. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. For more information about our market area and the competition we face, see “Item 1. Business—Market Area” and “Item 1. Business—Competition.” We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits, and by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions as our primary regulator. LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC and LaPorte Bancorp are subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the 39 Table of Contents insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of The LaPorte Savings Bank rather than for holders of LaPorte Bancorp common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. In light of the current economic downturn and banking concerns, we expect that Congress and the regulatory agencies will implement new restrictions and reporting requirements on our activities and operations. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations including complains costs. Stock price may be volatile due to limited trading volume. LaPorte Bancorp, Inc.’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market System. However, the average daily trading volume in the Stock Company’s common stock has been relatively small, averaging less than approximately 5,633 shares per day during the month of December 2008. Our trading volume may be even lower in 2009 as we terminated our stock repurchase program effective February 27, 2009. As a result, trades involving a relatively small number of shares may have a significant effect on the market price of the common stock, and it may be difficult for investors to acquire or dispose of large blocks of stock without significantly affecting the market price. Public stockholders own a minority of LaPorte Bancorp, Inc.’s common stock and will not be able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. LaPorte Bancorp, Inc.’s holding company, LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC owns approximately 54.14% of its common stock, as of December 31, 2008. Directors and executive officers own or control approximately 2.89% of the common stock. The same directors and executive officers that manage LaPorte Bancorp, Inc., also manage LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC. Public stockholders who are not associated with the MHC or LaPorte Bancorp, Inc. own approximately 42.97% of the common stock. The Board of Directors of LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC will be able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders because the MHC owns a majority of LaPorte Bancorp, Inc.’s common stock. For example, LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC may exercise its voting control to prevent a sale or merger transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium for their shares or to approve employee benefit plans. We could potentially recognize goodwill impairment charges. In connection with our acquisition of City Savings Financial, we recorded goodwill equaling $8.4 million. Pursuant to the provisions of SFAS No. 142, LaPorte Bancorp annually measures the fair value of its investment in The LaPorte Savings Bank to determine that such fair value equals or exceeds the carrying value of its investment, including goodwill. If the fair value of our investment in The LaPorte Savings Bank does not equal or exceed its carrying value, we will be required to record goodwill impairment charges which may adversely affect future earnings. The fair value of a banking franchise can fluctuate downward based on a number of factors that are beyond management’s control, (e.g. adverse trends in the general economy or interest rates). Based on the timing of the City Savings Financial acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2007, the first annual impairment review was performed in the fourth quarter of 2008. As a result of impairment testing performed as of September 30, 2008, no impairment charge was recorded by the Company. There can be no assurance that our banking franchise value will not decline in the future to a level necessitating goodwill impairment charges to operations that could be material to our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 40 Table of Contents 