Item 1A. Risk Factors Changing interest rates may hurt our profits and asset values. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: • the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and • the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Our liabilities generally have shorter maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility as market interest rates change. In periods of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities, resulting in a decline in our net interest income. In periods of declining interest rates, our net interest income is generally positively affected although such positive effects may be reduced or eliminated by prepayments of loans and redemptions of callable securities. In addition, when long-term interest rates are not significantly higher than short-term rates thus creating a “flat” yield curve, LaPorte Bancorp’s interest rate spread will decrease thus reducing net interest income. Finally, federal initiatives designed to reduce mortgage interest rates may reduce our loan income without a corresponding reduction in funding costs, thus decreasing our spreads. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. As December 31, 2011, the fair value of our securities classified as available for sale totaled $132.0 million. Unrealized net gains on available-for-sale securities totaled $5.3 million at December 31, 2011 and are reported, net of tax, as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. However, a rise in interest rates could cause a decrease in the fair value of securities available for sale in future periods which would have an adverse effect on shareholders’ equity. Depending on market conditions, we often place more emphasis on enhancing our net interest margin rather than matching the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities. In particular, we believe that the increased net interest income resulting from a mismatch in the maturity of our asset and liability portfolios can, during periods of stable or declining interest rates provide high enough returns to justify increased exposure to sudden and unexpected increases in interest rates. As a result, our results of operations and the economic value of our equity will remain vulnerable to increases in interest rates and to declines in the difference between long- and short-term rates. See “Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management of Market Risk.” Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the past three years it has been the policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve Board”) to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than available prior to 2008. This has been a significant factor in the decrease in the amount of our interest income to $19.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from $21.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has resulted in increases in net interest income as interest rates decreased. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the near future. Accordingly, our net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may continue to be adversely affected and may even decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability. 38 Table of Contents Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and results. Since the latter half of 2007, negative developments in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets and a general economic downturn which has continued into 2011. The economic downturn was accompanied by deteriorated loan portfolio quality at many institutions, including The LaPorte Savings Bank. In addition, the value of real estate collateral supporting many home mortgages has declined and may continue to decline. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. These negative developments along with the turmoil and uncertainties that have accompanied them have heavily influenced the formulation and enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, along with its implications as described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. In addition to the many future implementing rules and regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act, the potential exists for other new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be enacted. Bank regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by increasing our costs, restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, these risks could affect the value of our loan portfolio as well as the value of our investment portfolio, which would also negatively affect our financial performance. A continued downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. Nearly all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in LaPorte County. As a result of this concentration, a continued downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would hurt our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. A significant portion of our loans are commercial real estate loans, which increases the risk in our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2011, 26.90% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans. Given their larger balances and the complexity of the underlying collateral, commercial real estate loans generally expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by owner occupied one- to four-family real estate. During 2008, we began to experience an increase in nonperforming commercial real estate loans, which continued during 2009 and 2010 and has leveled off in 2011. However, we have experienced an increase in loans classified as special mention during 2011. In light of the current weakness in the real estate market and economy, we may experience increases in nonperforming loans and provisions for loan losses. Our mortgage warehousing line of business may be subject to a higher risk than our residential lending operations. We operate a mortgage warehousing line of business. Under this program, we provide financing to approved mortgage companies for the origination and sale of residential mortgage loans. Each individual mortgage is assigned to us until the loan is sold to the secondary market by the mortgage company. We take possession of each original note and forward such note to the end investor once the mortgage company has sold the loan. Because we rely on the mortgage companies to make and document the loans, we have less control over the quality of the underlying loans and the creditworthiness of the borrowers. 39 Table of Contents If our mortgage warehousing customers are negatively affected by increased competition, our earnings could decrease. Competition in warehouse lending has increased on a national level as new lenders, especially community and regional banks, have begun entering the mortgage warehouse business. If increased competition negatively affects our mortgage warehousing line of business, our earnings could decrease. Financial reform legislation enacted by Congress in 2010, among other things, eliminated the Office of Thrift Supervision, tightened capital standards, created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and resulted in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. Effective July 21, 2010, Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Act. This law significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act required various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many years. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have already impacted LaPorte Bancorp. For example, on July 21, 2011, the Office of Thrift Supervision, which was the primary federal regulator for LaPorte Bancorp and LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC was dissolved, and the Federal Reserve Board assumed supervisory and regulatory responsibilities for all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision, including LaPorte Bancorp and LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC. Moreover, LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC now requires the approval of the Federal Reserve Board before it may waive the receipt of any dividends from LaPorte Bancorp. In the past, the FRB has generally not allowed dividend waivers by mutual bank holding companies and, therefore, there is no assurance that the Federal Reserve Board will approve future dividend waivers or what conditions it may impose on such waivers. In addition, any dividends waived by LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC must be considered in determining an appropriate exchange ratio in the event that LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC converts to stock form. Also effective July 21, 2011 is a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act that eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. It is not possible to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the future implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. 40 Table of Contents If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. While our allowance for loan losses was 1.26% of total loans at December 31, 2011, material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Slow growth in our market area has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our performance. Economic and population growth within our market area has for several decades been below the national average. Management believes that these factors have adversely affected our profitability and our ability to increase our loans and deposits. Our acquisition of City Savings Financial Corporation facilitated our entrance into the Michigan City and Chesterton, Indiana markets, which are growing more rapidly than Eastern LaPorte County. However, these markets have experienced a significant decline in real estate values and economic activity as a result of the economic downturn that began in 2007. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition in making loans, attracting deposits and hiring and retaining experienced employees. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and attract deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits sometimes results in us charging lower interest rates on our loans and paying higher interest rates on our deposits, which reduces our net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult and costly to attract and retain qualified employees. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. For more information about our market area and the competition we face, see “Item 1. Business—Market Area” and “Item 1. Business—Competition.” If the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis continues to pay a reduced dividend, our earnings will be negatively affected. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis (“FHLBI”) to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLBI’s advance program. There is no market for our FHLBI common stock. Since the fourth quarter of 2008, the FHLBI has paid a reduced dividend on its stock due to losses in its securities portfolio. As a result, we received approximately $110,000, $131,000 and $89,000 less from FHLBI dividends in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, compared to 2008. If the FHLBI continues to pay a reduced dividend, our earnings will be negatively affected. Our stock price may be volatile due to limited trading volume. LaPorte Bancorp’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. However, the average daily trading volume in the LaPorte Bancorp’s common stock has been relatively small, averaging less than approximately 866 shares per day during 2011. As a result, trades involving a relatively small number of shares may have a significant effect on the market price of the common stock, and it may be difficult for investors to acquire or dispose of large blocks of stock without significantly affecting the market price. 41 Table of Contents Public stockholders own a minority of LaPorte Bancorp, Inc.’s common stock and will not be able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. LaPorte Bancorp, Inc.’s holding company, LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC owned approximately 54.11% of its common stock, as of December 31, 2011. At that same date, directors and executive officers own or controlled approximately 4.46% of the common stock. The same directors and executive officers that manage LaPorte Bancorp, Inc., also manage LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC. The Board of Directors of LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC will be able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders because LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC owns a majority of LaPorte Bancorp, Inc.’s common stock. For example, LaPorte Savings Bank, MHC may exercise its voting control to prevent a sale or merger transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium for their shares or to approve employee benefit plans. We could potentially recognize goodwill impairment charges. In connection with our acquisition of City Savings Financial, we recorded goodwill equaling $8.4 million. LaPorte Bancorp annually measures the fair value of its investment in The LaPorte Savings Bank to determine that such fair value equals or exceeds the carrying value of its investment, including goodwill. If the fair value of our investment in The LaPorte Savings Bank does not equal or exceed its carrying value, we will be required to record goodwill impairment charges which may adversely affect future earnings. The fair value of a banking franchise can fluctuate downward based on a number of factors that are beyond management’s control, (e.g. adverse trends in the general economy or interest rates). As a result of impairment testing performed as of September 30, 2011, no impairment charge was recorded by LaPorte Bancorp. There can be no assurance that our banking franchise value will not decline in the future to a level necessitating goodwill impairment charges to operations that could be material to our results of operations. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information systems, we cannot assure you that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 42 Table of Contents 