D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common shares. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for dividends or the trading price of our common shares. 6 Industry Specific Risk Factors Charter hire rates for drybulk carriers have decreased, which have continued to adversely affect our earnings. The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates and profitability. For example, the degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of drybulk carriers has varied widely. After reaching historical highs in mid-2008, charter hire rates for Panamax and Capesize drybulk carriers declined to near historically low levels in December 2008. During 2010, the Baltic Exchange Dry Index, or BDI, rates, a daily average of charter rates in 26 shipping routes measured on a time charter and voyage basis and covering Supramax, Panamax and Capesize drybulk carriers, ranged from a high of 4,209 in May 2010 to a low of 1,700 in July 2010. Following a short period of increase in the third quarter of 2010, the BDI fell to near July 2010 levels at the end of 2010. The BDI has further decreased in 2011 to 1,262 as of March 1, 2011. While we generally charter our vessels for periods ranging from approximately two to five years, we may be exposed to changes in spot market rates for drybulk carriers, and such changes may affect our earnings and the value of our drybulk carriers at any given time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders. The supply of and demand for shipping capacity strongly influence freight rates. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. If charter rates in the drybulk market continue to decline and remain at low levels for any significant period in 2011, this will have an adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, cash flows and our ability to comply with the financial covenants in our loan agreements. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: · supply and demand for energy resources, commodities and drybulk cargoes; · changes in the exploration or production of energy resources commodities, and drybulk cargoes; · the location of regional and global exploration, production and manufacturing facilities; · the location of consuming regions for energy resources, commodities and drybulk cargoes; · the globalization of production and manufacturing; · global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts and terrorist activities, embargoes and strikes; · developments in international trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including the distance cargo is transported by sea; · environmental and other regulatory developments; · currency exchange rates; and · weather. The factors that could influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · port and canal congestion; 7 · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · vessel casualties; and · the number of vessels that are out of service, namely those that are laid-up, drydocked, awaiting repairs or otherwise not available for hire. In addition to the prevailing and anticipated freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing drybulk fleet in the market and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors influencing the supply of and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control, and we may not be able to correctly assess the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk carriers will be dependent upon economic growth in the world's economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargoes to be transported by sea. The capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and there can be no assurance that economic growth will resume or continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The drybulk carrier charter market remains significantly below its high in 2008, which has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and profitability, and may affect our ability to comply with our loan covenants. The abrupt and dramatic downturn in the drybulk charter market, from which we derive a substantial part of our revenues, has severely affected the drybulk shipping industry and has adversely affected our business. The BDI declined from a high of 11,793 in May 2008 to a low of 663 in December 2008, which represents a decline of 94%. The BDI fell over 70% during the month of October 2008 alone. During 2010, the BDI ranged from a high of 4,209 in May 2010 to a low of 1,700 in July 2010. Following a short period of increase in the third quarter of 2010, the BDI fell to near July 2010 levels at the end of 2010. The BDI has further decreased in 2011 to 1,262 as of March 1, 2011. The decline and volatility in charter rates is due to various factors, including the lack of trade financing for purchases of commodities carried by sea, which has resulted in a significant decline in cargo shipments, and the excess supply of iron ore in China, which has resulted in falling iron ore prices and increased stockpiles in Chinese ports. The decline and volatility in charter rates in the drybulk market also affects the value of our drybulk vessels, which follows the trends of drybulk charter rates, and earnings on our charters, and similarly, affects our cash flows, liquidity and compliance with the covenants contained in our loan agreements. The decline in the drybulk carrier charter market has had and may continue to have additional adverse consequences for our industry, including an absence of financing for vessels, no active secondhand market for the sale of vessels, charterers seeking to renegotiate the rates for existing time charters, and widespread loan covenant defaults in the drybulk shipping industry. Accordingly, the value of our common shares could be substantially reduced or eliminated. The container shipping industry is cyclical and volatile and the recent global economic recession has resulted in decreased demand for container shipping, which may negatively impact our containership operations. Our investment in the containership industry, and future growth of our containership operations, will generally depend on continued growth in world and regional demand for container shipping services, and the recent global economic slowdown has resulted in decreased demand for container shipping and a related decrease in charter rates. 8 The ocean-going container shipping industry is both cyclical and volatile in terms of charter hire rates and profitability. Containership charter rates peaked in 2005 and generally stayed strong until the middle of 2008, when the effects of the recent economic crisis began to affect global container trade. Charter rates have fallen significantly since the middle of 2008. Although they have since partially rebounded from near ten-year lows, they remain well below long-term averages and could further decline in the near term. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply and demand for ship capacity and changes in the supply and demand for the major products internationally transported by containerships. The factors affecting the supply and demand for containerships and supply and demand for products shipped in containers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. Our ability to employ the containerships in our fleet will depend upon, among other things, the state of the containership market when our containerships are available for re-employment. If the containership market is in a period of sustained depression, we may be unable to operate our containerships profitably. An over-supply of drybulk carrier and containership capacity may lead to a further reduction in charter rates, which may limit our ability to operate our drybulk carriers and containerships profitably. The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing, and the number of drybulk carriers on order is near historic highs. These newbuildings were delivered in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2006 and continued to be delivered in significant numbers through 2010. As of January 2011, newbuilding orders had been placed for an aggregate of more than 49% of the current global drybulk fleet, with deliveries expected during the next four years. Notwithstanding the decline in the size of the containership orderbook over the last 12 months, newbuilding containerships with an aggregate capacity of 3.8 million TEU were on order, representing 27.3% of the total fleet capacity as of January 2011. The size of the orderbook is large relative to historical levels and will result in the increase in the size of the world containership fleet over the next few years. An over-supply of drybulk carrier and containership capacities, particularly in conjunction with the currently reduced level of demand, may result in a further reduction of charter hire rates. If the current low drybulk carrier and containership charter rate environment persists and the global fleet capacity increases due to the delivery of newbuildings or further redeployment of previously idle drybulk carriers and containerships, upon the expiration or termination of the current charters for our vessels, we may only be able to recharter those vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all. Liner companies, which are the most significant charterers of containerships, have been placed under significant financial pressure, thereby increasing our charter counterparty risk. The decline in global trade due to the economic slowdown has resulted in a significant decline in demand for the seaborne transportation of products in containers, including for exports from China to Europe and the United States. Consequently, the cargo volumes and freight rates achieved by liner companies, which charter containerships from ship owners like us, have declined, with only marginal improvement year-to-date, adversely affecting their profitability. The financial challenges faced by liner companies, some of which announced efforts to obtain third party aid and restructure their obligations, has reduced demand for containership charters and may increase the likelihood of our customers being unable or unwilling to pay us contracted charter rates. The combination of the current surplus of containership capacity and the expected increase in the size of the world containership fleet over the next several years may make it difficult to secure substitute employment for our containerships if our counterparties fail to perform their obligations under the currently arranged time charters, and any new charter arrangements we are able to secure may be at lower rates. In the highly competitive international shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources, and as a result, we may be unable to employ our vessels profitably. 9 We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargo and containers by sea is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources than us could enter the drybulk or container shipping industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. If we are unable to successfully compete with other drybulk and container shipping companies, our results of operations would be adversely impacted. A further economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could exacerbate the effect of the recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate a significant number of the port calls made by our vessels will continue to involve the loading or discharging of drybulk commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, further negative changes in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may exacerbate the effect of the significant recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. Before the global economic financial crisis that began in 2008, China had one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, or GDP, which had a significant impact on shipping demand. While the growth rate of China's GDP increased to approximately 10.3% for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to approximately 9.1% for the year ended December 31, 2009, the Chinese GDP growth rate remains below pre-2008 levels. China has recently imposed measures to restrain lending, which may further contribute to a slowdown in its economic growth. It is possible that China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region will continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the near future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial condition and results of operations, ability to pay dividends as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by a further economic downturn in any of these countries. A decrease in the level of China's export of goods or an increase in trade protectionism could have a material adverse impact on our charterers' business and, in turn, could cause a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. China exports considerably more goods than it imports. Our vessels may be deployed on routes involving trade in and out of emerging markets, and our charterers' shipping and business revenue may be derived from the shipment of goods from the Asia Pacific region to various overseas export markets including the United States and Europe. Any reduction in or hindrance to the output of China-based exporters could have a material adverse effect on the growth rate of China's exports and on our charterers' business. For instance, the government of China has recently implemented economic policies aimed at increasing domestic consumption of Chinese-made goods. This may have the effect of reducing the supply of goods available for export and may, in turn, result in a decrease of demand for container shipping. Additionally, though in China there is an increasing level of autonomy and a gradual shift in emphasis to a "market economy" and enterprise reform, many of the reforms, particularly some limited price reforms that result in the prices for certain commodities being principally determined by market forces, are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition. The level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government. Our operations expose us to the risk that increased trade protectionism will adversely affect our business. If the incipient global recovery is undermined by downside risks and the recent economic downturn is prolonged, governments may turn to trade barriers to protect their domestic industries against foreign imports, thereby depressing the demand for shipping. Specifically, increasing trade protectionism in the markets that our charterers serve has caused and may continue to cause an increase in: (i) the cost of goods exported from China, (ii) the length of time required to deliver goods from China and (iii) the risks associated with exporting goods from China, as well as a decrease in the quantity of goods to be shipped. 10 Any increased trade barriers or restrictions on trade, especially trade with China, would have an adverse impact on our charterers' business, operating results and financial condition and could thereby affect their ability to make timely charter hire payments to us and to renew and increase the number of their time charters with us. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as those in New York on September 11, 2001, in London on July 7, 2005, and in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, and the continuing response of the United States and others to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks around the world, continues to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Continuing conflicts and recent developments in the Middle East and North Africa, and the presence of U.S. and other armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Terrorist attacks on vessels, such as the October 2002 attack on the M.V. Limburg, a very large crude carrier not related to us, may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility and turmoil of the financial markets in the United States and globally. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and costs. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Beginning in 2008, the frequency of piracy incidents increased significantly, and continued at a relatively high level through today, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as "war risk" zones by insurers, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including those due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common shares to further decline. The United States and other parts of the world have and continue to experience weakened economic conditions and have been in a recession. For example, the credit markets in the United States have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States federal government and state governments have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The SEC, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions and may affect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. 11 The uncertainty surrounding the future of the credit markets in the United States and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide. As of March 1, 2011, we had total outstanding indebtedness of $311.1 million (of principal balance) under our credit facilities. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, have caused the price of our common shares to decline and could cause the price of our common shares to decline further. Drybulk carrier and containership values may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our financial condition, result in the incurrence of a loss upon disposal of a vessel or increase the cost of acquiring additional vessels. Vessel values may fluctuate due to a number of different factors, including: general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; competition from other shipping companies; the types and sizes of available vessels; the availability of other modes of transportation; increases in the supply of vessel capacity; the cost of newbuildings; governmental or other regulations; prevailing freight rates, which are the rates paid to the shipowner by the charterer under a voyage charter, usually calculated either per ton loaded or as a lump sum amount; and the need to upgrade second hand and previously owned vessels as a result of charterer requirements, technological advances in vessel design or equipment or otherwise. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. Due to the cyclical nature of the shipping market, if for any reason we sell any of our owned vessels at a time when prices are depressed, we could incur a loss and our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be adversely affected. Moreover, if the book value of a vessel is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions we may incur a loss that could adversely affect our operating results. Conversely, if vessel values are elevated at a time when we wish to acquire additional vessels, the cost of acquisition may increase and this could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Our charter revenues are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we can pay dividends, if any, in the future. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in volatility in our operating results to the extent that we enter into new charter agreements or renew existing agreements during a time when charter rates are weaker, which could affect the amount of dividends, if any, that we pay to our shareholders from quarter to quarter. The drybulk carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. The containership market is typically stronger in the spring and autumn in anticipation of increased consumption of consumer products during the holiday and peak seasons. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. While this seasonality has not materially affected our operating results, it could materially affect our operating results and cash available for distribution to our shareholders as dividends, if any, in the future. Fuel, or bunker prices, may adversely affect profits. While we generally will not bear the cost of fuel, or bunkers, for vessels operating on time charters, fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability at the time of charter negotiation. Fuel is also a significant, if not the largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are under voyage charter. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. 12 Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable. This could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These regulations include, but are not limited to the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the U.S. Clean Air Act, U.S. Clean Water Act and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002, and regulations of the International Maritime Organization, or the IMO, including the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975, the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974 and the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Furthermore, the 2010 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or other events, may result in further regulation of the shipping industry, including modifications to statutory liability schemes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability, remediation costs and natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. 13 Risks associated with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues and stock price. The operation of ocean-going vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: · marine disaster; · environmental accidents; · cargo and property losses or damage; · business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and · piracy. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant drydocking facilities would decrease our earnings. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may also harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in our vessels being denied access to, or detained in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the IMO's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, or the ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Each of the vessels that has been delivered to us is ISM Code-certified. However, if we are subject to increased liability for non-compliance or if our insurance coverage is adversely impacted as a result of non-compliance, it may negatively affect our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. If any of our vessels are denied access to, or are detained in, certain ports, our revenues may be adversely impacted. In addition, vessel classification societies also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. In complying with current and future environmental requirements, vessel owners and operators may also incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance. 14 The operation of our vessels is also affected by other government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates, and financial assurances with respect to our operations. Increased inspection procedures, tighter import and export controls and new security regulations could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin, destination and trans-shipment points. These security procedures can result in cargo seizure, delays in the loading, offloading, trans-shipment or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. For example, since the events of September 11, 2001, U.S. authorities have significantly increased the levels of inspection for all imported containers. Government investment in non-intrusive container scanning technology has grown, and there is interest in electronic monitoring technology, including so-called "e-seals" and "smart" containers that would enable remote, centralized monitoring of containers during shipment to identify tampering with or opening of the containers, along with potentially measuring other characteristics such as temperature, air pressure, motion, chemicals, biological agents and radiation. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures, such as those described above, could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks which could affect our earnings and cash flow. The operation of vessels, such as drybulk carriers, has certain unique risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the vessel can be an operational risk. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold) and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels' holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel's bulkheads leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may seek to obtain security for its claim by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. 15 Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution as dividends, if any, to our shareholders. Company Specific Risk Factors The failure of our charterers to meet their obligations under our time charter agreements, on which we depend for substantially all of our revenues, could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business and ability to comply with covenants in our credit facilities. As of March 1, 2011, we employed each of our 11 drybulk carriers under time charter agreements with an average remaining duration of approximately 18.5 months, with five customers representing 78.6% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a time charter agreement with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the drybulk shipping industry and the overall financial condition of the counterparties. Charterers are sensitive to the commodity markets and may be impacted by market forces affecting commodities, such as iron ore, coal, grain, and other minor bulks. In addition, in depressed market conditions, there have been reports of charterers, including some of our charter counterparties, renegotiating their charters or defaulting on their obligations under charters, and our customers may fail to pay charter hire or attempt to renegotiate charter rates. In addition, one of our drybulk carriers, the M/V Pearl Seas, is currently on charter to Korea Line Corp., or KLC, a South Korean shipping company that announced on January 25, 2011 it had filed a petition for the rehabilitation proceeding for court receivership in the Seoul Central District Court, and the court had issued a preservation order. Our charter with KLC has an initial term ending not earlier than August of 2011 at a rate of $37,300 per day, with an optional extension of up to an additional 26 to 28 months at $32,500 per day with 50% profit share above that level. The option was exercised on February 1, 2011. The M/V Pearl Seas recently completed its discharge operations and, as from February 1, 2011, until February 18, 2011, was undergoing drydock and maintenance procedures. As a result, the vessel was off hire for the duration of the drydock and maintenance period and no payment from KLC was due under the charter during that period. KLC has been notified that charter hire is now due as per the governing charter party agreement. Since February 18, 2011, the vessel remains at anchor in China waiting for charterer's voyage instructions. No hire has been received for this period and we do not expect KLC to make charter hire payments for the contracted amount, nor do we expect KLC to honor the charter party agreement. Should KLC stop performing its obligations under the charter, as we expect, we will vigorously pursue any claim it may have against KLC, however we may have difficulty recovering any unpaid amounts or securing another charter at similar rates, as current charter rates are significantly lower than the contracted rate under the charter. As with the M/V Pearl Seas, the time charters on which we deploy a number of our other vessels provide for charter rates that are significantly above market rates as of March 1, 2011. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under its charter with us, it may be difficult to secure substitute employment for such vessel, and any new charter arrangements we secure in the spot market or on time charters would be at lower rates given currently decreased drybulk carrier charter rate levels. If our charterers fail to meet their obligations to us or attempt to renegotiate our charter agreements, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future, and compliance with covenants in our credit facilities, certain of which specifically require the maintenance of minimum charter rate levels. For example, under our loan agreement with Bayerische Hypo-und Vereinsbank AG, if the charter for any of our vessels mortgaged thereunder, which are the Deep Seas, the Calm Seas and the Crystal Seas, is terminated or ceases to remain in full force and effect for any reason it would constitute an event of default under such credit facility. Under our loan agreement with HSH Nordbank, if the charter for the vessel mortgaged thereunder, the Friendly Seas, were renegotiated such that the renegotiated net charterhire rate was insufficient to cover all payment obligations under such loan agreement, operating expenses of the vessel and all commission payments with respect to such vessel, our inability to make required payments thereunder could result in an event of default. 16 The current low drybulk and containership charter rates and drybulk carrier and containership values and any future declines in these rates and values have affected and may continue to affect our ability to comply with various covenants in our credit facilities. Our credit facilities, which are secured by mortgages on our vessels, contain various financial covenants. Among those covenants are requirements that relate to our net worth, operating performance and liquidity. For example, there is a minimum equity ratio requirement that is based, in part, upon the market value of the vessels securing the loans, as well as requirements to maintain a minimum ratio of the market value of our vessels mortgaged thereunder to our aggregate outstanding balance under each respective credit facility. The market value of drybulk carriers and containerships is sensitive, among other things, to changes in the drybulk and containership charter markets, respectively, with vessel values deteriorating in times when charter rates are falling and improving when charter rates are anticipated to rise. The current low charter rates in the drybulk and containership markets coupled with the prevailing difficulty in obtaining financing for vessel purchases have adversely affected drybulk carrier values, including the vessels in our fleet, and containership values. A continuation of these conditions would lead to a further significant decline in the fair market values of our vessels, which may result in our not being in compliance with these loan covenants. In such a situation, unless our lenders were willing to provide waivers of covenant compliance or modifications to our covenants, or would be willing to refinance, we would have to further reduce or eliminate our dividend, sell vessels in our fleet and/or seek to raise additional capital in the equity markets. Furthermore, if the value of our vessels further deteriorates significantly, we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements, which would adversely affect our financial results and further hinder our ability to raise capital. During the first quarter of 2010, we entered into amendments to five of our credit facilities. The amendments relate to certain financial covenants, such as the security maintenance coverage ratios, market adjusted net worth requirements and indebtedness to total capitalization ratios contained in the applicable credit facilities. If the current low charter rates in the drybulk market and low vessel values continue or further decline, we may not be in compliance with these covenants, and would have to seek waivers of compliance from our lenders and/or raise additional funds through asset sales, equity infusions or similar transactions. If we fail to comply with our covenants and are not able to obtain covenant waivers or modifications, our lenders could require us to post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, increase our interest payments or pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet, or they could accelerate our indebtedness, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. In addition, if we were unable to obtain waivers, we could be required to reclassify all of our indebtedness as current liabilities, which would be significantly in excess of our cash and other current assets, and which could trigger further defaults under our loan agreements. If our indebtedness was accelerated in full or in part, it would be very difficult in the current financing environment for us to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and we could lose our vessels if our lenders foreclose their liens, which would adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Furthermore, if we find it necessary to sell our vessels at a time when vessel prices are low, we will recognize losses and a reduction in our earnings, which could affect our ability to raise additional capital necessary for us to comply with our loan agreements. Our secured credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities. Within 2010, we entered into amendments to five of our credit facilities, and in the third quarter of 2010, we entered into two new credit facilities. 17 Our amended secured credit facilities, together with our other secured credit facilities, impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · create liens on our assets; · sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; · make investments; · engage in mergers or acquisitions; · pay dividends; · make capital expenditures; · compete effectively to the extent our competitors are subject to less onerous financial restrictions; · adjust and alter existing charters; · change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel; and · sell our vessels. In addition, under these covenants, we are required to maintain minimum restricted cash equivalents ranging between $0.5 million to $2.0 million per vessel and certain pledged deposits with our lenders. Therefore, our discretion is limited because we may need to obtain consent from our lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders' consent when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our shareholders' best interest. For example, our amended loan agreements contain additional restrictions, including the requirement that we obtain the prior written consent of each of our lenders before paying dividends and impose maximum limits on the per share and aggregate dividend that we may pay pursuant to the terms of certain of our other credit facilities. The market values of our vessels have decreased, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow under our credit facilities. The fair market value of our vessels is related to prevailing freight charter rates. While the fair market value of vessels and the freight charter market have a very close relationship as the charter market moves from trough to peak, the time lag between the effect of charter rates on market values of ships can vary. The fair market values of our vessels have generally experienced high volatility, and you should expect the market value of our vessels to fluctuate depending on a number of factors including: · the prevailing level of charter hire rates; · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; · competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation; 18 · the types, sizes and ages of vessels; · the supply and demand for vessels; · applicable governmental regulations; · technological advances; and · the cost of newbuildings. As a result of the decline in the market value of our fleet, we may not be able to obtain other financing or incur debt on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. We recently expanded into and have limited experience with respect to the containership sector. We recently expanded into the containership sector, with which we have limited experience. The operation of containerships has certain unique risks involving, among other things, the high speeds at which containerships travel in order to move cargoes around the world quickly and minimize delivery delays, the loading or unloading of containers with highly varied cargoes and industry specific inspection procedures. Our ability to establish containership industry relationships and a reputation for customer service and safety, as well as to acquire and renew charters with leading liner companies, will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to man our vessels with experienced containership crews and the ability to manage such risks. Given our limited experience and the limited experience of Allseas Marine S.A., or Allseas or our Manager, with respect to the containership industry, there is no assurance that we will be able to address the variety of vessel management risks in the containership sector or to develop and maintain commercial relationships with leading liner companies, which could adversely affect our containership business and results of operations. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. We enter into, among other things, charter parties, credit facilities with banks and interest rate swap agreements. Such agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the shipping sector, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, charter rates received for specific types of drybulk carriers, the supply and demand for commodities such as iron ore, coal, grain, and other minor bulks, and various expenses. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels. Our strategy is to employ our vessels on fixed-rate period charters, of which five expire in 2011, six expire in 2012, one expires in 2013 (the charter for the M/V Pearl Seas with KLC, for which we have substantial doubts as to whether the charterer will meet its obligations) and one expires in 2014. Currently, prevailing drybulk carrier charter rates are significantly lower than those provided for in our existing charter agreements. In the past, charter rates for vessels have declined below operating costs of vessels. If our vessels become available for employment in the spot market or under new period charters during periods when charter rates are at depressed levels, we may have to employ our vessels at depressed charter rates, if we are able to secure employment for our vessels at all, which would lead to reduced or volatile earnings. Future charter rates may not be at a level that will enable us to operate our vessels profitably to allow us to continue to pay dividends or repay our debt. 19 We may not be able to raise equity and debt financing sufficient to pay the cost of the newbuilding vessels we have agreed to acquire, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have entered into contracts for the construction of four Handysize and three Kamsarmax drybulk carriers that are scheduled to be delivered to us between October 2011 and December 2012. We cannot assure you that the net proceeds from future equity offerings or debt financing would be sufficient to pay the cost of these newbuilding vessels that we have agreed to acquire for an aggregate remaining purchase price of $134.8 million, and we currently have no available borrowing capacity. In addition, we used a substantial portion of our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, aside from cash generated from operations since June 30, 2010, for vessel acquisition costs. The remaining balance of the purchase price for the seven newbuildings that we have agreed to acquire, is payable upon delivery of the respective vessels from October 2011 to December 2012. While we have entered into a commitment letter with a syndicate of international lenders for a credit facility that would be used to fund 100% of the balance of the acquisition costs of these vessels, we cannot assure you that we will enter into such credit facility and, if we are unable to do so, that we will be able to arrange alternative equity financing or other debt financing necessary to meet such obligations. The failure to fund such newbuilding costs would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may have difficulty properly managing our planned growth through acquisitions of our newbuilding vessels and additional vessels. We intend to grow our business through the acquisition of our contracted newbuilding vessels and we may make selective acquisitions of other additional secondhand and newbuilding vessels. Our future growth will primarily depend on our ability to locate and acquire suitable additional vessels, enlarge our customer base, operate and supervise newbuilding vessels we may order, and obtain required debt or equity financing on acceptable terms. We have contracted to acquire seven newbuilding vessels for an aggregate remaining purchase price of $134.8 million, all of which are scheduled to be delivered from October 2011 to December 2012. A delay in the delivery to us of any such vessel, or the failure of the seller or shipyard to deliver a vessel at all, could cause us to breach our obligations under a related charter and could adversely affect our earnings. In addition, the delivery of any of these vessels with substantial defects could have similar consequences. A shipyard could fail to deliver a newbuilding on time or at all because of: · work stoppages or other hostilities, political or economic disturbances that disrupt the operations of the shipyard; · quality or engineering problems; · bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipyard; · a backlog of orders at the shipyard; · weather interference or catastrophic events, such as major earthquakes or fires; · our requests for changes to the original vessel specifications or disputes with the shipyard; or · shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel, or equipment, such as main engines, electricity generators and propellers. In addition, we may seek to terminate a newbuilding contract due to market conditions, financing limitations or other reasons. The outcome of contract termination negotiations may require us to forego deposits on construction and pay additional cancellation fees. In addition, where we have already arranged a future charter with respect to the terminated newbuilding contract, we would need to provide an acceptable substitute vessel to the charterer to avoid breaching our charter agreement. The delivery of any secondhand vessel we may agree to acquire could be delayed because of, among other things, hostilities or political disturbances, non-performance of the purchase agreement with respect to the vessels by the seller, our inability to obtain requisite permits, approvals or financing or damage to or destruction of the vessels while being operated by the seller prior to the delivery date. 20 During periods in which charter rates are high, vessel values generally are high as well, and it may be difficult to consummate vessel acquisitions or enter into newbuilding contracts at favorable prices. During periods when charter rates are low, we may be unable to fund the acquisition of newbuilding vessels, whether through lending or cash on hand. For these reasons, we may be unable to execute our growth plans or avoid significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth efforts. We may have to suspend the payment of cash dividends in the future as a result of market conditions and future dividends will be subject to the consent of one of our lenders and, upon receipt of such consent, will be subject to certain additional restrictions. Currently, certain of our amended credit facilities restrict the amount of dividends we may pay with respect to 2011 to $0.50 per share per annum and/or limit the aggregate amount of dividend payments we may pay with respect to 2011 to $51.2 million. Furthermore, one of our credit facilities limits the quarterly dividend payment to 70% of the reported net income of the preceding financial quarter, with the exception of the dividends relating to the six-month period ended March 31, 2011, where the aggregate dividend payment shall not exceed the lesser of (i) $0.10 per share and (ii) 70% of the accumulated reported net income for the respective period. In addition to our on-going controlled equity offering, we may issue common shares in the future, which issuances would increase our currently issued and outstanding shares on which any future dividends would be paid, thereby potentially decreasing the amount per share that we would be able to pay, assuming we obtain the required prior written consent of one of our lenders, while remaining in compliance with the aggregate dollar value limits on dividend payments in our amended credit facilities. In addition, the terms of our credit facilities contain a number of financial covenants and general covenants that require us to, among other things, maintain minimum vessel market values as a percentage of the total outstanding facility amount, minimum cash balances and insurance including, but not limited to, hull and machinery insurance in an amount at least equal to the fair market value of the vessels financed, as determined by third party valuations. We may not be permitted to pay dividends in any amount under our credit facilities if we are in default of any of these loan covenants or if we do not meet specified debt coverage ratios and minimum charter rate levels. Further, in light of a lower charter rate environment and the significant contraction in worldwide credit markets, our board of directors, which declared a dividend of $0.05 per share for the fourth quarter of 2010 payable on or about March 24, 2011 to shareholders of record on March 14, 2011, may determine to further reduce or suspend dividend payments in the future. Our dividend policy will be assessed by the board of directors from time to time. In addition, other external factors, such as our lenders imposing restrictions on our ability to pay dividends under the terms of our loan agreements, may limit our ability to pay dividends in the future. The derivative contracts we have entered into to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates could result in higher than market interest rates and charges against our income. We have entered into interest rate swaps for purposes of managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates applicable to indebtedness under certain of our credit facilities which were advanced at a floating rate based on LIBOR. Our hedging strategies, however, may not be effective and we may incur substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. Since our existing interest rate swaps do not, and future derivative contracts may not, qualify for treatment as hedges for accounting purposes, we recognize fluctuations in the fair value of such contracts in our income statement. In addition, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected to the extent we do not hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations under our financing arrangements. Any hedging activities we engage in may not effectively manage our interest rate exposure or have the desired impact on our financial conditions or results of operations. At December 31, 2010, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $5.4 million. Substantial debt levels could affect our ability to pay dividends and limit our flexibility to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities. 21 As of March 1, 2011, we had outstanding indebtedness of $311.1 million and we expect to incur additional indebtedness as we further grow our fleet as market conditions warrant. This level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may be unavailable on favorable terms; · we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash from operations to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and dividends to our shareholders; · our debt level could make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and · our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating income is not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions, such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, a lack of liquidity in the debt and equity markets could hinder our ability to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing on favorable terms in the future. We may not be able to refinance indebtedness incurred under our credit facilities, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business strategy contemplates that we repay all or a portion of our acquisition related debt from time to time with the net proceeds of equity issuances and with secured indebtedness drawn under our credit facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. For so long as we have outstanding indebtedness under our credit facilities, we will have to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest of this indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate cash flow in amounts that are sufficient for these purposes. If we are not able to satisfy these obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans or sell our assets. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, any defaults by them, and the market value of our fleet, among other things, may materially affect our ability to obtain alternative financing. In addition, debt service payments under our credit facilities or alternative financing may limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures, payment of dividends and other purposes. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, or if we otherwise default under our credit facilities or an alternative financing arrangement, our lender could declare the debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on our fleet, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. In addition, if the recent financial difficulties experienced by financial institutions worldwide leads to such institutions being unable to meet their lending commitments, that inability could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our fleet. If we are not able to borrow under our future credit facilities that we may enter into and are unable to find alternative sources of financing on terms that are acceptable to us or at all, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. We may have difficulty effectively managing our planned growth, which may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends. Since the completion of our initial public offering in August 2007, we have increased the size of fleet from six drybulk carriers to eleven drybulk carriers and two containerships. In addition to our operating fleet, we have agreed to acquire four Handysize and three Kamsarmax newbuilding drybulk carriers that we expect to take delivery of between October 2011 and December 2012. The addition of these vessels to our fleet has resulted in a significant increase in the size of our fleet and imposes significant additional responsibilities on our management and staff. While we expect our fleet to grow further, this may require us to increase the number of our personnel. We will also have to increase our customer base to provide continued employment for the new vessels. 22 Our future growth will primarily depend on our ability to: · locate and acquire suitable vessels; · identify and consummate acquisitions or joint ventures; · integrating any acquired vessels successfully with our existing operations; · enhance our customer base; · manage our expansion; and · obtain required financing on acceptable terms. We may not be successful in executing our growth plans and we may incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth. If we are not able to successfully grow the size of our company or increase the size of our fleet, our financial condition, results of operations, and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected. The expansion of our fleet may impose significant additional responsibilities on our management and staff, and the management and staff of Allseas Marine S.A., or Allseas, which is responsible for all of the commercial and technical management functions for our fleet and is an affiliate of our chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Michael Bodouroglou, and may necessitate that we, and they, increase the number of personnel. Allseas may have to increase its customer base to provide continued employment for our fleet, and such costs will be passed on to us by Allseas. We are dependent on Allseas for the provision of the services of our executive officers and for the commercial and technical management our fleet, and the failure of Allseas to satisfactorily perform its services may adversely affect our business. Effective January 1, 2011, we entered into an executive services agreement with Allseas, pursuant to which Allseas provides the services of our executive officers, who report directly to our board of directors. The agreement has an initial term of five years and automatically renews for successive five year terms unless sooner terminated. We reimburse Allseas on a monthly basis for all costs and expenses incurred by Allseas in connection with the provision of services under the agreement. As of March 1, 2011, we have one shoreside salaried employee and we reimburse our Manager for the services of our chief executive officer and interim chief financial officer, Robert Perri, our financial officer, George Skrimizeas, our chief operating officer and Maria Stefanou, our internal legal counsel and corporate secretary, and we currently have no plans to hire additional employees. In addition, as we subcontract the commercial and technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair, to Allseas, the loss of Allseas' services or its failure to perform its obligations to us could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Although we may have rights against Allseas if it defaults on its obligations to us, you will have no recourse directly against Allseas. Further, we will need to seek approval from our lenders to change our commercial and technical manager. Since Allseas is a privately held company and there is little or no publicly available information about it, an investor could have little advance warning of potential problems that might affect Allseas that could have a material adverse effect on us. 23 The ability of Allseas to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair Allseas' financial strength, and because it is privately held, it is unlikely that information about its financial strength would become public unless Allseas began to default on its obligations. As a result, an investor in our shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting Allseas, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. Our chairman and chief executive officer has affiliations with Allseas which may create conflicts of interest. Our chairman and chief executive officer is the beneficial owner of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Allseas. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and Allseas, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the chartering, purchase, sale and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus vessels managed by other companies affiliated with Allseas and Mr. Bodouroglou. Allseas may give preferential treatment to vessels that are beneficially owned by related parties because Mr. Bodouroglou and members of his family may receive greater economic benefits. While Allseas does not currently provide management services to vessels other than the ones in our fleet, entities affiliated with Mr. Bodouroglou may acquire vessels that may compete with our vessels in the future. Mr. Bodouroglou granted to us a right of first refusal over future vessels that he or entities affiliated with him may seek to acquire in the future. However, we may not exercise our right to acquire all or any of these vessels in the future, and such vessels may compete with our fleet. These conflicts of interest may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be dependent on the performance of our then-existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require in order to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher level than the anticipated cost, may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy. Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and reduced fleet utilization. While we have the right to inspect previously owned vessels prior to our purchase of them and we intend to inspect all secondhand vessels that we acquire in the future, such an inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. A secondhand vessel may have conditions or defects that we were not aware of when we bought the vessel and which may require us to incur costly repairs to the vessel. These repairs may require us to put a vessel into drydock which would reduce our fleet utilization. Furthermore, we usually do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team, including our ability to retain key members of our management team and to hire new members as may be necessary. As of March 1, 2011, we have one shoreside salaried employee and we reimburse our Manager for the services of our chief executive officer and interim chief financial officer, Robert Perri, our financial officer, George Skrimizeas, our chief operating officer and Maria Stefanou, our internal legal counsel and corporate secretary, and we currently have no plans to hire additional employees. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining replacement personnel could adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. We do not intend to maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers or other members of our management team. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose our vessels or to compensate third parties. 24 We are insured against tort claims and some contractual claims (including claims related to environmental damage and pollution) through memberships in protection and indemnity associations or clubs, or P&I Associations. We also procure hull and machinery insurance and war risk insurance for our fleet. We insure our vessels for third party liability claims subject to and in accordance with the rules of the P&I Associations in which the vessels are entered. We can give no assurance that we will be adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs or lower our revenue. We cannot assure you that we would be able to renew our insurance policies on the same or commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, protection and indemnity insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, our insurance may be avoidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Further, we cannot assure you that our insurance policies will cover all losses that we incur. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydocking repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings and cash flow. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs or loss of hire in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. Our current fleet consists of eight Panamax drybulk carriers, two Supramax drybulk carriers and one Handymax drybulk carrier with an aggregate capacity of approximately 747,994 dwt and a weighted average age of 7.7 years as of March 1, 2011. In addition, we own and operate two 2010-built containerships with an aggregate capacity of approximately 6,852 TEU, which we took delivery of in July and August 2010. We have also entered into contracts for the construction of four Handysize drybulk carriers and three Kamsarmax drybulk carriers, which are scheduled to be delivered to us between October 2011 and December 2012. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may also require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. In addition, charterers actively discriminate against hiring older vessels. For example, Rightship, the ship vetting service founded by Rio Tinto and BHP-Billiton which has become the major vetting service in the drybulk shipping industry, ranks the suitability of vessels based on a scale of one to five stars. Most major carriers will not charter a vessel that Rightship has vetted with fewer than three stars. Rightship automatically downgrades any vessel over 18 years of age to two stars, which significantly decreases its chances of entering into a charter. Therefore, as our vessels approach and exceed 18 years of age, we may not be able to operate these vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 25 We generate substantially all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but certain of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to these other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the U.S. dollar falls in value could increase, decreasing our net income and cash flow from operations. We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deductions, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under section 883 of the Code, or Section 883, and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we will take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. For example, we would no longer qualify for exemption under Section 883 for a particular taxable year if shareholders with a 5% or greater interest in our common shares owned, in the aggregate, 50% or more of our outstanding common shares for more than half the days during the taxable year. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances with regard to our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to the tax exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject during those years to a 4% U.S. federal income tax on our gross U.S. source shipping income (without allowance for deduction) under section 887 of the Code. The imposition of this tax could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce, or are held for the production of, those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property, and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our current and proposed method of operation, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that income from our time chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute assets that produce, or are held for the production of, "passive income." There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, we note that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature of our operations. 26 If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders would face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences and information reporting obligations. Under the PFIC rules, unless those U.S. shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such U.S. shareholders), such U.S. shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing U.S. federal income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon "excess distributions" and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if such "excess distribution" or gain had been recognized ratably over the U.S. shareholder's holding period of our common shares. See "Item 10.E. Taxation—Material U.S., Marshall Islands and Liberian Income Tax Considerations—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Passive Foreign Investment Company Status and Significant Tax Consequences" for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. Our Liberian subsidiaries may not be exempt from Liberian taxation which would materially reduce our net income and cash flow by the amount of the applicable tax. The Republic of Liberia enacted a new income tax act effective as of January 1, 2001, or the New Act. In contrast to the income tax law previously in effect since 1977, or the Prior Law, which the New Act repealed in its entirety, the New Act does not distinguish between the taxation of non-resident Liberian corporations, such as our Liberian subsidiaries, which conduct no business in Liberia and were wholly exempted from income tax under the Prior Law, and the taxation of ordinary resident Liberian corporations. In 2004, the Liberian Ministry of Finance issued regulations pursuant to which a non-resident domestic corporation engaged in international shipping, such as our Liberian subsidiaries, will not be subject to tax under the New Act retroactive to January 1, 2001, or the New Regulations. In addition, the Liberian Ministry of Justice issued an opinion that the New Regulations were a valid exercise of the regulatory authority of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, assuming that the New Regulations are valid, our Liberian subsidiaries will be wholly exempt from Liberian income tax as under the Prior Law. In 2009, the Liberian Congress enacted the Economic Stimulus Taxation Act of 2009, which reinstates the treatment of non-resident Liberian corporations, such our Liberian subsidiaries, under Prior Law retroactive to January 1, 2001. This legislation will become effective when it is finally published by the Liberian government. If our Liberian subsidiaries were subject to Liberian income tax under the New Act, they would be subject to tax at a rate of 35% on their worldwide income. As a result, their, and subsequently our, net income and cash flow would be materially reduced by the amount of the applicable tax. In addition, we, as shareholder of the Liberian subsidiaries, would be subject to Liberian withholding tax on dividends paid by the Liberian subsidiaries at rates ranging from 15% to 20%. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments, if any, in the future. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries, which are wholly-owned by us, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments, if any, in the future depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to declare or pay dividends. We do not intend to obtain funds from other sources to pay dividends. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, in the future will depend on the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends if the company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon payment of such dividend and dividends may be declared and paid out of our operating surplus. Our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future will also be subject to our satisfaction of certain financial covenants contained in our credit facilities and amendments and waivers related thereto. We may be unable to pay dividends in the anticipated amounts or at all. Currently, one of our amended credit facilities requires that we obtain the prior written consent of the lender before paying any dividend, and certain of our other amended credit facilities restrict the amount of dividends we may pay with respect to 2011 to $0.50 per annum and/or limit the aggregate amount of dividend payments we may pay with respect to 2011 to $51.2 million. Furthermore, one of our credit facilities limits the quarterly dividend payment to 70% of the reported net income of the preceding financial quarter, with the exception of the dividends relating to the six-month period ended March 31, 2011, where the aggregate dividend payment shall not exceed the lesser of (i) $0.10 per share and (ii) 70% of the accumulated reported net income for the respective period. 27 As we expand our business, we may need to improve our operating and financial systems and will need to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels. If we are unable to do so, those systems may become ineffective, which could adversely affect our financial performance and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution as dividends to our shareholders. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we expand the size of our fleet and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, as we expand our fleet, our Manager will need to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shoreside administrative and management personnel on our behalf. While we have not experienced any difficulty in recruiting to date, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If we or our crewing agent encounter business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we are unable to grow our financial and operating systems or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our financial performance may be adversely affected and, among other things, the amount of cash available for distribution as dividends, if any, to our shareholders may be reduced. Because our seafaring employees are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements, failure of industry groups to renew those agreements may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our earnings. As of March 1, 2011, our vessel owning subsidiaries employ approximately 270 seafarers. All of the seafarers employed on the vessels in our fleet are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements that set basic standards. These agreements may not prevent labor interruptions. Any labor interruption could disrupt our operations and harm our financial performance. If Allseas is unable to perform under its vessel management agreements with us, our results of operations may be adversely affected. As we expand our fleet, we will rely on Allseas to recruit suitable additional seafarers and to meet other demands imposed on Allseas. We cannot assure you that Allseas will be able to meet these demands as we expand our fleet. If Allseas' crewing agents encounter business or financial difficulties, they may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If Allseas is unable to provide the commercial and technical management service for our vessels, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position and our ability to pay dividends may be materially adversely affected. Our operations outside the United States expose us to global risks that may interfere with the operation of our vessels. We operate as an international company and primarily conduct our operations outside the United States. Changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered affect us. In the past, political conflicts, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Future hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels trade could affect our trade patterns, increase the risk of attacks on our vessels and adversely affect our operations and performance. It may not be possible for investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. 28 We and all our subsidiaries are incorporated in jurisdictions outside the United States and substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the United States. In addition, all of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the United States upon us, our subsidiaries or our directors and officers or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our or the assets of our subsidiaries are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. We may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and the ultimate outcome of any litigation or the potential costs to resolve them may have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares Our shareholders will experience dilution as a result of our on-going controlled equity offering, including the issuance of shares of our common stock to Loretto Finance Inc. in connection with our on-going controlled equity offering. As of March 1, 2011, we sold 6,374,900 shares of our common stock pursuant to our on-going controlled equity offering. If we sell all of the remaining 8,625,100 common shares that may be offered pursuant to the controlled equity offering (and, as a result, issue a total of 300,000 common shares to Loretto Finance Inc., or Loretto, a related-party entity controlled by our chairman and chief executive officer, for no consideration as described below), we will have approximately 68,104,599 common shares outstanding, excluding an aggregate of 322,006 common shares underlying outstanding options and warrants, with exercise prices ranging from $10.00 to $12.00 per share. Because the sales of the common shares offered under the controlled equity offering are made directly into the market or in negotiated transactions, the prices at which we sell these shares may vary and these variations may be significant. Purchasers of the shares we sell, as well as our existing shareholders, will experience significant dilution if we sell shares at prices significantly below the price at which they invested. Pursuant to an agreement with Loretto which we entered into in connection with its acquisition of shares of our common stock in November 2009, we will issue to Loretto up to 300,000 shares of common stock in the aggregate at no cost in connection with the controlled equity offering, which will result in dilution to our shareholders. Loretto will receive additional shares of common stock on the same terms in any future issuances of equity securities (other than issuance of shares pursuant to exercise of our outstanding warrants and under our equity incentive plan) which will result in further dilution to our shareholders. Furthermore, our shareholders may incur additional dilution from any future equity offering and upon the issuance of additional shares of our common stock upon the exercise of our outstanding warrants and upon the exercise of options that we have granted to certain of our officers and directors or upon the issuances of additional restricted stock pursuant to our equity incentive plan. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely and the market price of our common shares may fluctuate in the future. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely since we became a public company in August 2007 and may continue to do so as a result of many factors, including our actual results of operations and perceived prospects, the prospects of our competition and of the shipping industry in general and in particular the drybulk sector, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts, changes in analysts' recommendations or projections, changes in general valuations for companies in the shipping industry, particularly the drybulk sector, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. 29 Our common shares have been trading below $5.00 per share, and the last reported sale price on the NYSE on March 1, 2011 was $3.13 per share. As long as the market price of our common shares remains below $5.00 per share, under stock exchange rules, our shareholders will not be able to use such shares as collateral for borrowing in margin accounts. This inability to use our common shares as collateral may depress demand as certain institutional investors are restricted from investing in shares priced below $5.00 and lead to sales of such shares creating downward pressure on and increased volatility in the market price of our common shares. In addition, in order to maintain the listing of our common shares on the NYSE, our stock price will need to comply with the NYSE's minimum share price requirements. The public market may not continue to be active and liquid enough for you to resell our common shares in the future. The price of our common shares may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry; · mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; · market conditions in the shipping industry; · changes in government regulation; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; · announcements concerning us or our competitors; and · the general state of the securities market. The seaborne transportation industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for common shares in this industry may be equally volatile. We may not be able to raise equity and debt financing sufficient to meet our capital and operating needs and to comply with our loan covenants, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot assure you that the net proceeds from any future equity offering or debt financing would be sufficient to satisfy our capital and operating needs and enable us to comply with our various debt covenants. In such case, we may not be able to raise additional equity capital or obtain additional debt financing or refinance our existing indebtedness, if necessary. If we are not able to comply with our loan covenants and our lenders choose to accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens, we could be required to sell vessels in our fleet and our ability to continue to conduct our business would be impaired. Since we are incorporated in the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law, you may have more difficulty protecting your interests than shareholders of a U.S. corporation. 30 Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. The rights of shareholders of the Marshall Islands may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in the United States. While the BCA provides that it is to be interpreted according to the laws of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, there have been few, if any, court cases interpreting the BCA in the Marshall Islands, and we cannot predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions as U.S. courts. Thus, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction which has developed a relatively more substantial body of case law. Our chairman and chief executive officer and Innovation Holdings, which is beneficially owned by our chairman and chief executive officer and members of his family, collectively hold approximately 18.0% of our total outstanding common shares which enables considerable control over matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote. As of March 1, 2011, Mr. Michael Bodouroglou, our President and chief executive officer, beneficially owns 10,748,906 shares, or approximately 18% of our outstanding common shares, the vast majority of which is held indirectly through entities over which he exercises sole voting power. Please see "Item 7.A. Major Stockholders." While Mr. Bodouroglou and the non-voting shareholders of these entities have no agreement, arrangement or understanding relating to the voting of our common shares that they own, they effectively control the outcome of matters on which our shareholder are entitled to vote, including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of these shareholders may be different from your interests. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our shareholders to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: · authorizing our board of directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock without shareholder approval; · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three year terms; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding common shares entitled to vote for the directors; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; and · restrict business combinations with interested shareholders. In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan pursuant to which our board of directors may cause the substantial dilution of any person that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. 31 These anti-takeover provisions, including provisions of our shareholder rights plan, could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. 