Item 1A. Risk Factors Many factors affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. Additional risks and uncertainties we are unaware of, or we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial conditions or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and our shareholders could lose all or part of their investment in our securities. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. See “FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS” for a discussion of uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Exposure to natural and man-made catastrophes could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather and fires. Catastrophes can also be man-made, such as terrorist attacks (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events) or consequences of war or political instability. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. It is possible both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made catastrophic events will increase. Although the trend of increased severity and frequency of storms was not evident in the United States in 2008, 2007 and 2006, it is possible the overall trend of increased severity and frequency of storms experienced in the United States in 2005 and 2004, and in the Caribbean during 2007, may continue in the foreseeable future. Catastrophes can result in losses in our property insurance lines and may generally result in both an increase in the number of claims incurred and an increase in the dollar amount of each claim asserted. The occurrence of such claims from natural and man-made catastrophes could therefore materially and adversely affect our results of operations for any year and may materially harm our financial position, which in turn could adversely affect our financial strength and impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, catastrophic events could cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance. Such events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers. Catastrophic events could also adversely impact the credit of the issuers of securities in whom we have invested, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition to catastrophes, the accumulation of losses from smaller weather-related events in a fiscal quarter or year could materially and adversely impact our results of operations in those periods. Our ability to manage our exposure to catastrophic events may be limited by new legislation and regulations. States have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating insurers participate in residual markets. In addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative initiatives and court decisions which seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies. Further, our ability to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes requires approval of regulatory authorities. Our ability or willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment and our ability to penetrate other geographic markets. We cannot predict whether and to what extent new legislation and regulations that would affect our ability to manage our exposure to catastrophic events will be adopted, the timing of adoption or the effects, if any, they would have on our ability to manage our exposure to catastrophic events. Because we currently conduct business in only one state, our financial results may be disproportionately affected by catastrophes and other conditions in that state. Our business is currently concentrated in only one state – the State of Florida. Therefore, our revenues and profitability are subject to prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic, competitive, weather and other conditions in the State of Florida. Changes in any of these conditions could make it less attractive for us to do business in Florida and would have a more pronounced effect on us than it would on other insurance companies that are geographically diversified. In addition, the fact that our business is concentrated only in the State of Florida subjects us to increased exposure to certain catastrophic events such as hurricanes and floods. This increased exposure to catastrophic events also results in an increased risk of losses as the extent of losses from a catastrophic event is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Because our business is concentrated in Florida, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events or other conditions affecting losses in Florida could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents If market conditions increase the cost or decrease the availability of reinsurance, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitment. As part of our risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance coverage from third-party reinsurers. Market conditions beyond our control, including catastrophic events, determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase, which may in turn affect the growth of our business and our profitability. We may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance coverage, to obtain additional reinsurance coverage in the event our current reinsurance limits are exhausted by a catastrophic event, or to obtain other reinsurance coverage in adequate amounts or at acceptable rates. Similar risks exist whether we are seeking to replace coverage terminated during the applicable coverage period or to renew or replace coverage upon the expiration of such coverage. If we are unable to renew our expiring coverage or to obtain new reinsurance coverage, either our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we are unwilling to accept an increase in net risk exposures, we would have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite. We conduct business in a concentrated geographical area, the State of Florida. Any single catastrophe could cause us to exhaust available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of reinsurance. Once we exhaust our available reinsurance limits, we will have to pay any claims that exceed our reinsurance limits. Alternatively, we could seek additional sources of reinsurance, which can be expected to be a costly and time consuming process which may not ultimately be successful. In the event we are successful in finding an additional or replacement reinsurer, such reinsurance policy can be expected to be costly. Catastrophic events can also impact the credit of our reinsurers and the credit of the issuers of securities, such as states or municipalities, in whom we have invested, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. If our actual claims exceed our loss reserves, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. If actual claims exceed our loss reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of loss reserves are necessary, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Loss and LAE reserves represent our estimate of ultimate unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Loss and LAE reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent our estimates, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given reporting date. Our loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future, based on our assessment of facts and circumstances known as of the reporting date, reviews of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other factors. In establishing our reserves, we have also taken into account estimated recoveries from salvage and subrogation. The process of estimating our loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes, and varying judgments and viewpoints of the individuals involved in the estimation process, among others. The impact of many of these items on our ultimate losses and LAE is difficult to estimate. The difficulty of estimating our loss reserves differs significantly by product line due to differences in the complexity of the claims, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the loss event and when it is actually reported to us). We continually refine our loss reserve estimates in a regular, ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. We apply informed judgment throughout our loss reserve estimation process, including applying our various individual experiences and expertise to multiple sets of data and analyses. Different experts may choose different assumptions when faced with material uncertainty, based on their individual backgrounds, professional experiences and areas of focus. Hence, such experts may at times produce estimates materially different from each other. Experts providing input to the various estimates and underlying assumptions include actuaries, underwriters, claims personnel and lawyers. Therefore, we consider varying individual viewpoints as part of our estimation of loss reserves. We attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for losses and LAE will likely be higher or lower than the related loss reserves at the reporting date. Therefore, our actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than we have currently reserved. Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed our current related reserves. In addition, our estimate of losses and LAE may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot be reasonably estimated now; however they could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in the future. 14 Table of Contents There are inherent difficulties in estimating the ultimate costs of catastrophes, which further complicate our ability to estimate reserves. There are inherent difficulties in estimating risks that impact the estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. These difficulties also affect our ability to estimate reserves for catastrophes. The estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be affected by the inability to access portions of the impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to establish the reserves. Complex factors include, but are not limited to, determining whether damage was caused by flooding versus wind; estimating additional living expenses; the impact of demand surge; fraud; the effect of mold damage and reinsurance collectibility. The timing of a catastrophe’s occurrence, such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting period. We adjust the estimates related to catastrophes as actual claims emerge and additional information becomes available to us. Because of the inherent uncertainty in estimating reserves for catastrophes, we cannot be sure our ultimate losses and LAE will not exceed our reserves. If and to the extent our reserves are inadequate, we will be required to increase our reserves for losses and LAE and incur a charge to earnings in the period during which our reserves are increased, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Difficult conditions in global capital markets and the economy may adversely affect our revenue and profitability and harm our business, and these conditions may not improve in the near future. Markets in the U.S. and elsewhere have experienced extreme volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. The U.S. has entered a severe recession that is likely to persist well into and perhaps even beyond 2009. These factors and the continuing market disruption may have an adverse effect on our investment portfolio, revenues, and profit margins. We are also subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and interest payments due under the terms of the securities. At December 31, 2008, our fixed maturity securities portfolio represented approximately 91% of our total invested assets. Approximately 57% of our fixed maturity securities are state, municipality, or U.S. Government obligations. The occurrence of a major economic downturn (such as the current economy), acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit spreads, budgetary deficits, or other events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of these securities could cause the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our net income to decline and the default rate of our fixed maturity securities portfolio to increase. With economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected and a ratings downgrade of the issuers or guarantors of the securities in our portfolio could also cause the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our net income to decrease. A reduction in the value of our investment portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay premiums as they come due. We are unable to predict the duration and severity of the current disruptions in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, which may have an adverse effect on us. Our business is cyclical, which affects our financial performance and may affect the market price of our common stock. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has been cyclical, characterized by periods of severe price competition and excess underwriting capacity, or soft markets, followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity, or hard markets. The profitability of most property and casualty insurance companies, including our company, tend to follow this cyclical pattern. This cyclicality is due in large part to the actions of our competitors and to general economic factors that are not within our control; therefore, we cannot predict how long any given hard or soft market will last. If we have to reduce premiums or limit premium increases due to competitive pressures on pricing in a softening market, we may experience a reduction in our premiums written and in our profit margins and revenues, which could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. Our business is seasonal, which affects our financial performance and may affect the market price of our common stock. Our business has historically been seasonal. We generally experience higher losses during the third quarter of the year as a result of an increase in claims due to weather conditions in Florida during hurricane season, as storms may cause property damage that impacts claim frequency and severity. The recurrence of these seasonal patterns, or any deviation from them, could affect the market price of our common stock. We have debt outstanding and failure to comply with the terms of our loan agreements could have an adverse effect on our ability to grow and write additional insurance policies. As of December 31, 2008, our total long-term debt outstanding was approximately $42.6 million ($41.3 million net of discount on debt of $1.3 million). Our long-term debt includes the following: • $4.3 million in principal amount outstanding under the note agreement between Columbus Bank and Trust Company (“CB&T”), UIH, and UIM; 15 Table of Contents • $20.0 million in principal amount outstanding under UPCIC’s surplus note with the State Board of Administration of Florida (“SBA”); and • $18.3 million in principal amount outstanding under notes between us and five noteholders (“Merger Notes”). These loan agreements contain certain significant covenants, including covenants requiring the maintenance of minimum specified financial ratios and balances. Our failure to meet our payment obligations or to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in increased interest rates on our indebtedness or the acceleration of our outstanding debt obligations or both. In addition, if an event of default occurs under the CB&T note agreement, CB&T can elect to take possession of, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of any of our assets pledged as collateral for the CB&T note. During the first, second and third quarters of 2008, we incurred an additional 450 basis points of interest expense as we did not meet the Writing Ratio as stated in our initial note agreement with the SBA. During the second quarter of 2008, the Florida Legislature passed a law allowing the SBA to amend the terms of surplus notes issued prior to January 1, 2008 based upon the requirements of the new changes in the law. The new law provides various methods of computing Writing Ratios that may be more favorable than the terms of the initial SBA note. We amended the terms of our note agreement with the SBA to reflect these changes in the law. At September 30, 2008, and December 31, 2008, we met the Writing Ratio as defined in the amended agreement and we did not incur an additional interest rate charge for the fourth quarter of 2008 nor will we incur an additional interest rate charge during the first quarter of 2009. The amended agreement with SBA requires us to maintain a Writing Ratio based on Net Written Premium to Surplus of 1:1 for July 1, 2008 through the end of the first calendar year on December 31, 2008, 1.5:1 for the second calendar year from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009, and 2:1 for the third calendar year beginning on January 1, 2010 and thereafter for the remaining term of the note agreement. Alternatively, we could meet a Writing Ratio based on Gross Written Premium to Surplus of 3:1 for July 1, 2008 through the end of the first calendar year on December 31, 2008, 4.5:1 for the second calendar year from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009, and 6:1 for the third calendar year beginning on January 1, 2010 and thereafter for the remaining term of the note agreement. If we choose to meet the Writing Ratio based on Net Written Premium to Surplus and our actual Writing Ratio is 1:1 or less during 2009 or 1.5:1 or less thereafter, we will be assessed an interest rate penalty of 450 basis points above the stated rate of the note. If we choose to meet the Writing Ratio based on Gross Written Premium to Surplus and our actual Writing Ratio is 3:1 or less during 2009 or 4.5:1 or less thereafter, we will be assessed an interest rate penalty of 450 basis points above the stated rate of the note. Any other Writing Ratio deficiencies result in an interest rate penalty of 25 basis points above the stated rate of the note. If our Writing Ratio of Net Written Premium to Surplus is below 1:1 and our Writing Ratio of Gross Premium to Surplus is below 3:1 for three consecutive quarters following January 1, 2010, we will be obligated to repay a portion of the SBA note such that the Writing Ratio will be obtained for the following quarter, provided we are capable of repayment without creating a financially hazardous condition. The SBA note provides that the SBA may, among other things, declare its note immediately due and payable for all defaults existing under the SBA note. Acceleration of the principal and interest under the SBA note would limit, but not preclude, our ability to write additional insurance policies. The Merger Notes have certain covenants, the violation of which could cause an event of default. Among others, these covenants include refraining from incurring debt that would cause our aggregate debt balance, including the $18.3 million incurred under the Merger Notes, to exceed $58.3 million (excluding the SBA note). The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on the insurance business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: • adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures in home repair costs; • judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; and • plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices. In some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent to us for some time after our issuance of the affected insurance policies. As a result, we may not know the full extent of liability under insurance policies we issue for many years after the policies are issued. 16 Table of Contents It is very difficult for us to predict the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues that could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and future operations. We are subject to possible assessments from Citizens and the FHCF. If Citizens recognize a financial deficit, they may, in turn, have the ability to assess participating insurers, including our insurance subsidiary, UPCIC, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We and other insurance companies writing residential property policies in Florida must participate in the FHCF, which potentially reimburses us for qualifying losses at various participating percentages above required retention levels, subject to maximum reimbursement amounts. If the FHCF does not have sufficient funds to pay its ultimate reimbursement obligations to us, it has the authority to issue bonds. Such bonds are funded by assessments on property and casualty premiums in Florida. By law, these assessments are the obligation of insurance policyholders which insurance companies like ours must collect and remit to FHCF. Our exposure to assessments and the availability of policyholder recoupments or premium rate increases related to these assessments may not offset each other in our financial statements. Moreover, even if they do offset each other, they may not offset each other in our financial statements for the same fiscal period due to the ultimate timing of when the assessments are accrued and when the related recoupments are accrued or when related premium rate increases are earned, as well as the possibility of policies not being renewed in subsequent years. We may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all. We use, and we expect to continue to use, reinsurance to help manage our exposure to property and casualty risks. The availability and cost of reinsurance are each subject to prevailing market conditions which can affect business volume and profitability. Although reinsurers are liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. Some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. In a number of jurisdictions, particularly the European Union and the United Kingdom, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty’s consent, provided the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority. We do not currently have any reinsurance arrangements that permit such a transfer. However, we may enter into such arrangements in the future, in which case the ability of reinsurers to transfer their risks to other, less creditworthy reinsurers would impact our risk of collecting amounts due to us. Based on the foregoing, we may not be able to collect all amounts due to us from reinsurers, and reinsurance coverage may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates or at all, thus our results of operations and future operations could be materially and adversely affected. We will be exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations and in our investment portfolio. We will be exposed to credit risk in several areas of our business operations, including credit risk relating to reinsurance, as discussed above, and credit risk associated with commissions paid to independent agents. We pay commissions to our agents in advance, on an annual basis. Therefore, if we or a policyholder cancels a policy during the policy year, the agent will owe us a pro rata portion of the commission we paid to such agent, based on the number of days during the policy year the policy was not in force. Typically, we deduct any such commissions owed to us from commissions on other policies we owe to the agent. If we do not owe the agent any other commissions, then we will be subject to the risk the agent may not be able to repay to us the balance of a commission, which could adversely affect our financial position. The value of our investment portfolio will also be subject to the risk that certain investments may become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial position of one or more issuers of securities held in our portfolio, or due to a downgrade of the credit ratings of an insurer that guarantees an issuer’s payments of such investments in our portfolio. In addition, defaults by the issuer and, where applicable, its guarantor, of certain investments that result in the failure of such parties to fulfill their obligations with regard to any of these investments could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. 17 Table of Contents While we will attempt to manage these risks through underwriting and investment guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. To a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn or recession. As a result, our exposure to any of the above credit risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Competition could harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and premium volume. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. We compete with both regional and national insurers as well as Florida domestic property and casualty companies, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. Based on legislation passed in 2007, Citizens, a Florida state-supported insurer, is also authorized to compete with us. Our primary competitors include Universal Insurance Company of North America, Security First Insurance Company, and other similar insurance companies. The principal competitive factors in our industry are price, service, commission structure and financial condition. In addition, our competitors may offer products for alternative forms of risk protection. If competition limits our ability to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The insurance industry is the subject of a number of investigations by state and federal authorities in the United States. We cannot predict the outcome of these investigations or the impact on our business practices or financial results. As part of ongoing, industry-wide investigations, we may from time to time receive subpoenas and written requests for information from government agencies and authorities, including from the Attorney General of the State of Florida, Florida insurance and business regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission. If we are subpoenaed for information by government agencies and authorities, potential outcomes could include enforcement proceedings or settlements resulting in fines, penalties and/or changes in business practices that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and future growth prospectus. In addition, these investigations may result in changes in laws and regulations affecting the industry in general which could, in turn, also materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The insurance business is heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. We are extensively regulated and supervised in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. This regulatory system is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their stockholders and other investors. This regulatory system also addresses authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, licensing, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer’s business. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the NAIC and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. In addition, Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal or national regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to the option available to most banks. We cannot predict the effect any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the conduct of our business. Although the United States federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies in several areas, including changes in financial services regulation (e.g., the repeal of the McCarran-Ferguson Act) and federal taxation, can significantly harm the insurance industry. Insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and may result in lower revenues and/or higher costs and thus could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our prospects for future growth. A downgrade in our financial strength rating could adversely impact our business volume, adversely impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. Financial strength ratings have become increasingly important to an insurer’s competitive position. Rating agencies review their ratings periodically, and our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. A downgrade in our rating could negatively 18 Table of Contents impact our business volumes, as it is possible demand for our products in certain markets may be reduced or our ratings could fall below minimum levels required to maintain existing business. Additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. If significant losses, such as those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. For example, a continued trend of more frequent and severe weather-related catastrophes may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses. Investment returns are expected to be an important part of our overall profitability. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates or in the fixed income, real estate, equity or alternative investment markets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in the general interest rate environment will affect our returns on, and the market value of, our fixed income and short-term investments. A decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on new investments, thereby negatively impacting our net investment income. Conversely, rising interest rates reduces the market value of existing fixed-income investments. In addition, defaults under, or impairments of, any of these investments as a result of financial problems with the issuer and, where applicable, its guarantor of the investment could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. We may decide to invest a portion of our assets in equity securities or other investments, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed-income investments. General economic conditions, stock market conditions and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the value of our non-fixed-income investments and the realization of net investment income. As a result of these factors, we may not realize an adequate return on our investments, we may incur losses on sales of our investments and we may be required to write down the value of our investments, which could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. The value of our investment portfolio can be subject to valuation uncertainties when the economy is in a downturn or recession. The valuation of investments is more subjective when the markets are illiquid and may increase the risk that the estimated fair value of our investment portfolio is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions would occur. Our investment portfolio may be invested, in significant part, in tax-exempt obligations. Our portfolio may also benefit from certain other tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits. Federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or eliminate some or all of these tax advantages and could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio. This result could occur in the context of deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform. We depend on our network of independent agents for revenues, and therefore, our business may be materially and adversely affected if we cannot retain and attract independent agents or if we experience disruptions in our relationships with our independent agents. Our network of approximately 1,600 independent agents accounts for approximately 77% of the gross premiums on insurance policies we write and constitutes our primary distribution channel for our products. Many of our competitors also rely on independent agents. Independent agents are not obligated to market or sell our insurance products or consult with us. As a result, we must compete with other insurers for independent agents’ business. Some of our competitors may offer a larger variety of products, lower prices for insurance coverage and higher commissions to independent agents. If our products, pricing and commissions do not remain competitive, we may find it more difficult to attract independent agents to sell our products. A material reduction in the amount of our products independent agents sell would negatively affect our results of operations. A certain portion of our business is concentrated with relatively few agents. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, our top five agents produced 50% and 25%, respectively, of our gross premiums written. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. We rely on Internet applications for the marketing and sale of certain products through our agents, and may increasingly rely on Internet applications and toll-free numbers for distribution in the future. If Internet disruptions occur causing our independent agents frustration with our business platforms or distribution initiatives, the resulting loss of business could materially and adversely affect our future business volume and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected if our controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex and are subject to state laws and regulations in Florida. These activities involve, among other things: • the use of non-public consumer information and related privacy issues; • the use of credit history in underwriting; • limitations on the ability to charge additional policy fees; • limitations on the payment of dividends; • limitations on types and amounts of investments; • the acquisition or disposition of an insurance company or of any company controlling an insurance company; • the purchase of reinsurance; • reporting with respect to financial condition; and • periodic financial and market conduct examinations performed by state insurance department examiners. We develop internal guidelines and policies in an effort to ensure compliance with legal and regulatory standards governing our business. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance the control system’s objectives will be met. If our controls prove to be ineffective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. Our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We have complied with the provisions regarding annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404 provisions”) for UIHC through September 29, 2008; however, due to the Merger transaction occurring so late in 2008, we were unable to perform this review on any of the subsidiaries we acquired in the Merger transaction. We are required to, and expect to, comply with the Section 404 provisions for our subsidiaries by the date we are required to file our annual report for fiscal year 2009 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We expect to comply with Section 404’s required annual reports of our independent auditors on the effectiveness of our internal controls commencing with our 2009 annual report. We are in the process of documenting our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404. We have begun to address and improve our financial reporting and compliance capabilities and we are in the process of instituting changes to satisfy our obligations as a public company, including the requirements associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards as then in effect, and as supplemented or amended from time to time, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports or otherwise maintain appropriate internal controls, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price for our stock could decline. If we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. While technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present certain risks. Our business is highly dependent upon our contractors’ and third-party administrators’ ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions such as the processing of new and renewal business, and the processing and payment of claims. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on these third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. These increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Attempts to grow our business could have an adverse effect on us. Although rapid growth may not occur, to the extent it does occur, it could place a significant strain on our financial, technical, operational and administrative resources. Our planned growth may result in increased responsibility for both existing and new management personnel. Effective growth management will depend upon our ability to integrate new personnel, to improve our operational, management and financial systems and controls, to train, motivate and manage our employees, and to increase our services and capabilities. Our ability to effectively manage our future growth may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and viability as a business. In addition, we may not grow or our growth may not produce profits for us. We have entered into certain debt agreements, which may reduce our financial flexibility. On February 8, 2007, we entered into a note agreement with CB&T which provides for a term note in the original principal amount of $33 million. The initial CB&T note provided for interest to be paid monthly and principal to be paid in 36 equal monthly installments of approximately $0.9 million. On August 11, 2008, the CB&T note agreement was modified to allow for interest only payments from August 1, 2008 through March 31, 2009. The entire unpaid principal balance, as well as all accrued and unpaid interest thereon, will be due and payable no later than February 20, 2010. On September 22, 2006, we entered into a twenty-year surplus note with the SBA (the “SBA note”). Under the SBA note, we are required to make quarterly interest payments for the first three years and interest and principal payments for the remaining term of the note During the first, second and third quarters of 2008, we incurred an additional 450 basis points of interest expense as we did not meet the Writing Ratio as stated in the initial note agreement with the SBA. We amended the terms of the note agreement with SBA effective July 1, 2008. Our amended agreement lowered the minimum Writing Ratio required from July 1, 2008 forward. We did not incur an excess interest rate charge above the stated rate for the fourth quarter of 2008 because our Writing Ratio based on Net Written Premium to Surplus was 1.4:1 at September 30, 2008, which is above the 1:1 ratio required to avoid the excess interest rate charged. At December 31, 2008, our Writing Ratio was 1.99:1; therefore, we will not incur an excess interest rate charge during the first quarter of 2009. No principal payments are due on the SBA note and we do not anticipate making any debt payments under the SBA note prior to October 2009. On August 15, 2008, we entered into a note purchase agreement with five noteholders. The issuance of the notes under this agreement was based upon our stockholders voting for the Merger transaction. Upon approval of the Merger transaction by our stockholders, we issued notes payable with a total face amount of $18.3 million. The notes bear interest at 11% per year, and require semi-annual interest-only payments. The entire principal balance is due and payable on September 29, 2011, but we have the option to prepay in full any principal amount then outstanding within 30 days after each of the first and second anniversary dates of the notes. Any such prepayment will be made at 105% of the principal amount prepaid. These notes contain certain covenants, the violation of which could cause an event of default. Among others, these covenants include refraining from incurring debt that would cause our aggregate debt balance, including the $18.3 million incurred under these notes, to exceed $58.3 million (excluding the SBA note). We expect we will continue to have outstanding debt obligations under the CB&T note agreement, the SBA note and the Merger Notes. This level of debt may affect our operations in several important ways, including the following: • a portion of our cash flow from operations is likely to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on this indebtedness; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited; • we may be unable to refinance this indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all; and • we may default on our obligations and the lenders may accelerate the indebtedness or foreclose on their security interests. From time to time we may enter into additional secured credit facilities to finance any or all of our capital requirements. Any such secured credit facility may have a material and adverse effect on us. From time to time, we may enter into additional secured credit facilities to finance any or all of our capital requirements. As part of a secured credit facility, we would likely be required to make periodic payments of principal and interest to the lender. We can provide no assurance we will have cash flow in an amount sufficient to repay our debt obligations under any or all of such secured credit facilities. Furthermore, these secured credit facilities normally contain numerous default provisions and may or may not provide us with the possibility to cure a default before accelerating the due date. If this were to happen, we might not be able to repay any or all of our secured debts in full and might be forced to declare bankruptcy. If the lender is a secured lender, the lender would have a priority right to receive repayment from a bankruptcy estate or may have the right to foreclose on the secured assets if we are not in bankruptcy but are in default of its secured contract. In addition, a default under any secured credit facility may force us to seek bankruptcy protection. As such, the fact that we may, from time to time, enter into secured credit facilities with any person, business, or organization, whether related or unrelated, may have a material and adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and viability. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. Factors that could cause such fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: • variations in actual or anticipated operating results or changes in the expectations of financial market analysts with respect to our results; • investor perception of the property and casualty insurance industry in general and the Company in particular; • market conditions in the insurance industry and any significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of insurance companies; • major catastrophic events, especially hurricanes; • sales of large blocks of our stock or sales by insiders; or • departures of key personnel. Trading of our common stock is limited, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares at times and prices you feel are appropriate. Trading of our common stock is conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board which provides less liquidity than national securities exchanges. In addition, trading in our common stock has been extremely limited. This limited trading adversely effects the liquidity of our common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of the Company. As a result, you may obtain lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained and there could be a larger spread between the bid and ask prices for our common stock. Our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” under SEC rules which limits the market for our common stock. Because our stock is not traded on a national stock exchange, and because the market price of the common stock is less than $5 per share, our common stock may be classified as a “penny stock.” SEC Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as an “established customer” or an “accredited investor.” This includes the requirement that a broker-dealer must make a determination that investments in penny stocks are suitable for the customer and must make special disclosures to the customers concerning the risk of penny stocks. Many broker-dealers decline to participate in penny stock transactions because of the extra requirements imposed on penny stock transactions. Application of the penny stock rules to our common stock reduces the market liquidity of our shares, which in turn affects the ability of holders of our common stock to resell the shares they purchase, and they may not be able to resell at prices at or above the prices they paid. Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares of common stock underlying the warrants at the time our warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise our warrants and therefore the warrants could expire worthless. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrants only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares of common stock are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have undertaken in the Warrant Agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares of common stock underlying the warrants to the extent required by federal securities laws, and we intend to comply with our undertaking, we cannot assure that we will be able to do so and therefore the warrants could expire worthless. In addition, we have agreed to use our reasonable efforts to register the shares of common stock 22 Table of Contents underlying the warrants under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the existing warrant holders, to the extent an exemption is not available. The value of the warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares of common stock underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future; therefore, returns on your investment may only be realized by the appreciation in value of our securities. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We plan to retain any future earnings to finance growth. Because of this, investors who purchase common stock and/or convert their warrants into common stock may only realize a return on their investment if the value of our common stock appreciates. If we determine that we will pay dividends to the holders of our common stock, there is no assurance or guarantee such dividends will be paid on a timely basis. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our profits and financial requirements and other factors, including legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends, general business conditions and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Future issuances or sales, or the potential for future issuances or sales, of shares of our common stock may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other securities in the public markets, or the perception these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities. Prior to our initial public offering, certain of our officers, directors and special advisors were issued 1,003,587 shares of common stock, and they are entitled to require us to register the resale of their 1,003,587 shares of common stock at any time after September 30, 2009, the date on which their shares of common stock are released from escrow. Furthermore, FMG Investors, LLC, our initial sponsor, owns insider warrants to purchase 1,070,181 shares of our common stock that are identical to the warrants issued in the initial public offering and in the Merger, except that, among other things, such insider warrants will become freely tradable only after they are registered pursuant to that certain Registration Rights Agreement dated October 4, 2007. If all of the insider warrants are exercised, there will be an additional 1,070,181 shares of our common stock eligible for trading in the public market. Our officers and directors own a large interest in us and may act in a manner adverse to other stockholders’ interests. Our officers and directors beneficially own approximately 40% of UIHC at December 31, 2008. As a result, they are able to exert significant influence over the following: • the nomination, election and removal of our Board of Directors; • the adoption of amendments to our charter documents; • management and policies; and • the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Our officers’ and directors’ interests may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock and our officers’ and directors’ may take action affecting us with which other stockholders may disagree. 23 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench our management. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals our stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. Our Board of Directors is divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. At a given annual meeting only a portion of our Board of Directors may be considered for election. Since our “staggered board” may prevent our stockholders from replacing a majority of our Board of Directors at certain annual meetings, it may entrench our management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of our stockholders. Moreover, our Board of Directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue a new series of preferred stock. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control in us. Together these provisions may make the removal of our management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. 