Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this annual report. In addition, statements that use the terms “believe,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this annual report reflect our current views about future events and are based on assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. You should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Unless we are required to do so under U.S. federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements. 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Page PART I ITEM 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management And Advisors 4 ITEM 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable 4 ITEM 3. Key Information 4 ITEM 4. Information on the Company 20 ITEM 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects 34 ITEM 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees 51 ITEM 7. Major Shareholders And Related Party Transactions 66 ITEM 8. Financial Information 70 ITEM 9. The Offer and Listing 71 ITEM 10. Additional Information 71 ITEM 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 85 ITEM 12. Description of Securities other than Equity Securities 86 PART II ITEM 13. Defaults, Dividend Arrearages and Delinquencies 86 ITEM 14. Material Modifications to the Rights of Security Holders and Use of Proceeds 86 ITEM 15. Controls and Procedures 87 ITEM 16. [Reserved] 87 ITEM 16A. Audit Committee Financial Expert 87 ITEM 16B. Code of Ethics 87 ITEM 16C. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 87 ITEM 16D. Exemptions from the Listing Standards for Audit Committees 87 ITEM 16E. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers 88 PART III ITEM 17. Financial Statements 88 ITEM 18. Financial Statements 88 ITEM 19. Exhibits 88 EX-4.17: AMENDMENT 7 TO STATEMENT OF WORK FOR BASE AGREEMENT EX-12.1: CERTIFICATION EX-12.2: CERTIFICATION EX-13.1: CERTIFICATION EX-13.2: CERTIFICATION EX-14.1: CONSENT OF KESSELMAN & KESSELMAN The terms “Voltaire,” “NVIGOR,” “Grid Backbone,” “Gridvision” and our logo are registered trademarks and we have filed a trademark application to register “GridStack.” All other registered trademarks appearing in this prospectus are owned by their holders. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. IDENTITY OF DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND ADVISORS Not applicable. ITEM 2. OFFER STATISTICS AND EXPECTED TIMETABLE Not applicable. ITEM 3. KEY INFORMATION A. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA You should read the following selected consolidated financial data in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes, as well as “Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects,” included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The consolidated statements of operations data for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2006 and 2007 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements which are not included in this Annual Report. Year Ended December 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 (In thousands, except share and per share data) Consolidated statements of operations data: Revenues $ 1,179 $ 4,916 $ 15,366 $ 30,427 $ 53,115 Cost of revenues(1) 854 3,565 10,902 19,476 30,472 Gross profit 325 1,351 4,464 10,951 22,643 Operating expenses: Research and development, gross(1) 4,612 6,658 6,538 7,694 10,796 Less royalty-bearing participation 1,325 700 621 — — Research and development, net 3,287 5,958 5,917 7,694 10,796 Sales and marketing(1) 1,703 4,327 6,045 8,281 10,483 General and administrative(1) 1,419 2,271 2,609 3,281 4,626 Total operating expenses 6,409 12,556 14,571 19,256 25,905 Loss from operations (6,084 ) (11,205 ) (10,107 ) (8,305 ) (3,262 ) Financial income (expenses), net 230 144 191 (460 ) (174 ) Loss before tax benefit (tax expense) (5,854 ) (11,061 ) (9,916 ) (8,765 ) (3,436 ) Tax benefit (tax expense) — — (111 ) (84 ) 284 Net loss (5,854 ) (11,061 ) (10,027 ) (8,849 ) (3,152 ) Accretion of redeemable convertible preferred shares(2) (1,977 ) (2,144 ) (2,959 ) (3,573 ) (23,608 ) Benefit to Series A, B and B1 shareholders(3) — (1,800 ) — — — Charge for beneficial conversion feature of Series D and D2 redeemable convertible preferred shares — (362 ) (482 ) (535 ) (1,386 ) Net loss attributable to ordinary shareholders $ (7,831 ) $ (15,367 ) $ (13,468 ) $ (12,957 ) $ (28,146 ) Net loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders — basic and diluted $ (18,600 ) $ (29.67 ) $ (21.16 ) $ (19.92 ) $ (3.06 ) Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in computing net loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders — basic and diluted 421 517,926 636,536 650,476 9,194,980 4 Table of Contents (1) Includes share-based compensation expense related to options granted to employees and others as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 (In thousands) Cost of revenues $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 2 Research and development, net — — 9 59 189 Sales and marketing — — — 90 239 General and administrative 35 382 65 161 585 Total $ 35 $ 382 $ 74 $ 310 $ 1,015 (2) Accretion of redeemable convertible preferred shares represents the original purchase price plus accrued dividends calculated using the interest method. Certain holders of our preferred shares had the option, after March 7, 2009, to require us to redeem all of the preferred shares for an amount equal to the greater of (i) the original purchase price plus accrued dividends (and, with respect to the Series D preferred shares, plus certain interest payments) and (ii) the then current fair market value of such shares. The redemption option and the related accretion of the preferred shares were terminated upon conversion of the preferred shares into ordinary shares upon the closing of our initial public offering. (3) In connection with the sale of our Series E preferred shares in 2004, our Series A, Series B and Series B1 preferred shares were converted into ordinary shares. At the time of this conversion, we issued junior liquidation securities to the holders of such shares, which entitle the holders to an aggregate payment of $1.8 million, following payment of certain required amounts to the holders of our Series C, D, E and E2 preferred shares, if we complete a merger transaction or are acquired or liquidated. The junior liquidation securities did not have voting rights and were cancelled upon the closing of our initial public offering for no consideration. B. CAPITALIZATION AND INDEBTEDNESS Not applicable. C. REASON FOR THE OFFER AND USE OF PROCEEDS Not applicable. D. RISK FACTORS An investment in our ordinary shares involve a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with the financial and other information contained in this annual report, before you decide to buy our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. In this case, the trading price of our ordinary shares would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses, may incur future losses and may not achieve profitability. We have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since we commenced operations in 1997. We incurred net losses of $3.2 million in 2007, $8.8 million in 2006 and $10.0 million in 2005. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $88.3 million. Our losses could continue for the next several years as we expand our sales and marketing activities, continue to invest in research and development, expand our general and administrative operations and incur additional costs related to being a public company. We may not generate sufficient revenues in the future to achieve or maintain profitability. 5 Table of Contents Our revenues and prospects may be harmed if the InfiniBand-based architecture is not widely adopted in the grid computing interconnect market. Our solutions leverage the performance and latency benefits of the InfiniBand grid computing interconnect architecture and provide interconnect functionality for data center environments that rely on industry-standard server and storage units. The InfiniBand architecture was first introduced in October 2000 and has a relatively short history and limited adoption in the grid computing interconnect market. End customers that purchase information technology, or IT, products and services from server vendors, such as our original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customers, must find InfiniBand to be a compelling solution to meet their grid computing needs. We cannot control third-party adoption of InfiniBand over competing grid computing interconnect architectures such as Ethernet, Fibre Channel and other proprietary technologies. InfiniBand may fail to compete effectively with these architectures, some of which are well established. If other architectures continue to remain the market standard or if a superior alternative architecture to InfiniBand is developed, our revenues and prospects may be harmed. Furthermore, we may be required to incur substantial costs to modify our existing products to remain competitive with new or existing architectures and we can provide no assurance that we will succeed in doing so. Enterprises may not adopt our technology and may continue to use Ethernet-based solutions, which could harm our future growth. More than half of our revenues to date have been derived from end customers that are governmental, research or educational institutions, such as government-funded research laboratories and post-secondary educational institutions. An important element of our strategy is to accelerate the adoption of our InfiniBand-based solutions by enterprises, which have traditionally used products based on the Ethernet architecture. In order to compete effectively against providers of solutions that utilize Ethernet, we must convince current Ethernet users to move to a new technology, and incur the related marketing, education and maintenance costs associated with such a move. Potential enterprise customers may also elect to rely on internally-developed solutions or proprietary solutions developed by other companies instead of implementing our InfiniBand-based solutions. In addition, even if potential enterprise customers adopt InfiniBand, we may have to compete with other suppliers of InfiniBand-based products in the enterprise market. If a leading company or several companies in the enterprise market incorporates our InfiniBand-based products, but fails to achieve desired performance and reliability, our reputation and revenues could be adversely affected. A small number of our OEM customers currently account for the majority of our revenues, and the loss of one or more of these OEM customers, or a significant decrease or delay in sales to any of these OEM customers, could reduce our revenues significantly. We market and sell our products to end customers primarily through our OEM customers who integrate our solutions into their product offerings. To date, we have derived a substantial portion of our revenues from a small number of OEM customers. Sales to our top three OEM customers accounted for 53% of our revenues in 2007, 63% of our revenues in 2006 and 58% of our revenues in 2005, as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2005 2006 2007 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 8 % 38 % 27 % Hewlett-Packard Company 48 12 24 Sun Microsystems, Inc. 2 13 2 Total 58 % 63 % 53 % We anticipate that a large portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from sales to a small number of OEM customers in the future. Our sales to our OEM customers are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our relationships with our OEM customers are generally governed by non-exclusive agreements that typically have an initial term of one to three years and automatically renew for successive one year terms, have no minimum sales commitments and do not prohibit our OEM customers from offering products and services that compete with our products. In addition, our agreements typically require us to deliver our products to our OEM customers within 30 to 90 days from the time we receive the order, however, in many cases 6 Table of Contents they may request faster delivery. A failure by us to meet product delivery deadlines may damage our relationship with our OEM customers and harm our market position. The size of purchases by our OEM customers typically fluctuates from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year, and may continue to fluctuate in the future, which may affect our quarterly and annual results of operations. For example, the portion of our revenues derived from Sun Microsystems decreased from 13% in 2006 to 2% in 2007, as a result of large transactions awarded to us in 2006 that were not repeated in 2007. In addition, our competitors may provide incentives to our existing and potential OEM customers to use or purchase their products and services or to prevent or reduce sales of our solutions. Some of our OEM customers also possess significant resources and advanced technical capabilities and may, either independently or jointly with our competitors, develop and market products and related services that compete with our solutions. If either of these were to occur, our OEM customers may discontinue marketing and distributing our solutions. Therefore, if any of our OEM customers reduces or cancels its purchases from us, or terminates its agreement with us for any reason, and we are unable to replace the lost revenues with sales to an alternate OEM customer, it would have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We may be unable to compete effectively with other companies in our market which offer, or may in the future offer, competing products. We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market. Our InfiniBand-based solutions currently address the high performance computing, or HPC, interconnect, the 10 Gigabit Ethernet switching, and the storage switching end-markets. These markets are characterized by continuous technological change and customer demand for high performance products. Our current principal competitor is Cisco Systems, Inc., which is a significant supplier of InfiniBand, Ethernet and Fibre Channel-based solutions, and has traditionally been the most recognized and dominant supplier for enterprises. We also compete with QLogic Corporation, a provider of Fibre Channel-based and InfiniBand-based solutions. These companies are substantially larger than we are and have significantly greater brand recognition and resources, which may allow them to respond more quickly to changes in customer requirements or to new or emerging technologies. We also compete to a lesser degree with providers of 10 Gigabit Ethernet and proprietary high-performance grid computing interconnect solutions. The entry of new competitors into our market and acquisitions of our existing competitors by companies with significant resources, better brand recognition and established relationships with our end customers could result in increased competition and harm our business. Increased competition may cause us to make competitive price reductions thereby reducing our gross margins and market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or result of operations. We depend significantly on our OEM customers to market, sell, install and provide initial and escalation level technical support for our products, and if any of these OEMs fails to adequately perform, then our sales may suffer. Our OEM customers are responsible for integrating our solutions into their products and providing first call and second escalation service and support for products incorporating our solutions. As a result, we depend on the ability of our OEM customers to market, sell and service our solutions successfully to end customers and to provide adequate customer support. Any failure by our OEM customers to provide adequate support to end customers could result in customer dissatisfaction with us or our solutions, which could result in a loss of an end customer, harm our reputation and delay or limit market acceptance of our solutions. In addition, if any significant OEM customer should fail, individually or in the aggregate, to perform as an end customer expects, our sales may suffer. We cannot provide any assurance that our OEM customers will market our solutions effectively, receive and fulfill end-customer orders of our solutions on a timely basis or continue to devote adequate resources to support the sales, marketing and technical support of our products. We do not expect to sustain our recent revenue growth rate, which may reduce our share price. Our revenues have grown rapidly over the last four years. Our revenues were $53.1 million in 2007, $30.4 million in 2006 and $15.4 million in 2005. We do not expect to sustain our recent growth rate in future periods. You should not rely on our revenue growth in any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our 7 Table of Contents future revenue growth. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth, we may not have sufficient resources to execute our business objectives and our share price may decline. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we encounter as a rapidly growing technology company. Our gross margins and results of operations may be adversely affected if we do not continue to achieve economies of scale and maintain or increase sales of higher margin products. Our gross margins have increased to 43% in 2007 from 36% in 2006 and from 29% in 2005. Our gross margins improved primarily due to reductions in costs of materials and manufacturing overhead due to higher production volumes. Our gross margins are also impacted by the mix of products that we sell. Our strategy is to increase our gross margins in the future by increasing sales of our Grid Director ISR 2012, ISR 2004, ISR 9288 and ISR 9096 director-class switches and Grid Switch edge switches as a percentage of revenues, while reducing sales of lower-margin host adapter cards as a percentage of revenues. We may not succeed in this strategy because customers may seek complete solutions that require us to sell host adapter cards to them and we may not succeed in our efforts to sell host adapter cards at premium prices. In addition, we may incur additional costs as a result of our efforts to increase sales of our higher-margin products and may not be successful in doing so. As a result, our financial position may be adversely affected. If we are unable to continue to achieve economies of scale and maintain or increase sales of higher margin products, we may not achieve our expected gross margin rate, resulting in lower than expected profitability. Our reliance on Mellanox Technologies Ltd. and other limited-source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. We obtain the application-specific integrated circuit, or ASIC, the main component used in our Grid Directortm director-class switches and Grid Switchtm edge switches, from Mellanox Technologies Ltd., which is currently the only manufacturer of this chip. Our switch products accounted for approximately 66% of our revenues in 2007. We entered into a non-exclusive agreement with Mellanox dated as of October 7, 2005, for an initial period of two years, which automatically renews for successive one-year periods unless one party notifies the other party within 90 days prior to each annual termination date that it does not wish to renew the agreement. Standard lead-times under the agreement may be changed at Mellanox’s sole discretion upon 30-days prior written notice. In addition, Mellanox may increase the ASIC purchase price upon 30-days prior notice and has the right to alter the ASIC upon 120-days prior notice, and to discontinue production of the ASIC upon six-months prior notice. During a period of six months after our receipt of a notice of discontinuance from Mellanox, we may purchase from Mellanox such commercially reasonable quantity of the discontinued product as we deem reasonably necessary for our future requirements. Mellanox is obligated to continue to provide us the discontinued product and to facilitate our transition to new products for a period not to exceed nine months following our receipt of the notice of discontinuance. In the event that Mellanox is unable to supply the ASIC on a timely basis or in the quantities that we require, we would be unable to manufacture our switch products without incurring significant development and design costs. There is currently no alternative supplier for the ASIC produced by Mellanox. If an alternative supplier of the ASIC were to develop in the future, we would likely be forced to make changes to our switching products to ensure interoperability with the new ASIC. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully modify our switches to accommodate any alternate technology or any change in Mellanox’s product. As a result, a failure by Mellanox to supply the ASIC would materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we have designed our products to incorporate several specific components, such as our InfiniBand connectors and backplanes, printed circuit boards, chassis and mechanical parts, power supplies and processor boards. We purchase these components from major industry suppliers, but do not have long-term supply contracts with these suppliers. We believe that substitute components are available from alternate sources, however, any change in these components would require us to qualify a new supplier’s components for inclusion in our products which would likely require significant engineering changes, which could take a number of months to complete. 8 Table of Contents We currently depend on two outside contract manufacturers, Sanmina-SCI Corporation and Zicon Ltd., to manufacture and warehouse our products and if they experience delays, disruptions, quality control problems or a loss in capacity, it could materially adversely affect our operating results. We subcontract the manufacture, assembly and testing for our products to two contract manufacturers. These functions are performed by Sanmina-SCI Corporation and Zicon Ltd. These contract manufacturers provide us with full turn-key manufacturing and testing services. Sanmina-SCI is responsible for the manufacture of our Grid Switch InfiniBand Switch Router, or ISR, 9024. Zicon manufacturers all modules and mechanics related to our director class switches and their gateway modules for connecting to Ethernet and Fibre Channel. Our contract manufacturers also store our inventory of key components, as well as finished products after manufacturing and before shipping to customers. If any of these contract manufacturers experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing our products, including insufficient inventory or supply of components, or if we fail to effectively manage the relationship with any of these subcontractors, shipments of products to our customers may be delayed, which could have a material adverse effect on our relationships with our customers and end customers. We currently have only a letter agreement with Sanmina-SCI and no long-term supply contract with Zicon. We are in the final stages of negotiating a long-term supply contract with Zicon and currently rely on committed purchase orders to meet our manufacturing requirements. Unless we enter into a long-term supply contract with each of these manufacturers, they will not be obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Neither of our contract manufacturers has provided contractual assurances to us that adequate capacity will be available to us to meet future demands for our products. Sanmina-SCI’s facilities are located in Lod, Israel and Zicon’s facilities are located in Petach Tikva, Israel. In the event that the facilities of either contract manufacturer are damaged for any reason, our ability to deliver products to customers could be materially adversely affected. See also “— Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel — Conditions in Israel could adversely affect our business.” Our solutions are highly technical and any undetected software or hardware errors in our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Due to the complexity of our solutions and variations among customers’ computing environments and data centers, we may not detect product defects until our products are fully deployed in our customers’ high performance computing environments and data centers. Regardless of whether warranty coverage exists for a product, we may be required to dedicate significant technical resources to resolving any defects. If we encounter significant product problems, we could experience, among other things, loss of customers, cancellation of product orders, increased costs, delays in recognizing revenue and damage to our reputation. Some of our customers traditionally demand early delivery of products containing our most advanced technology prior to completion of our rollout. For example, during the third quarter of 2006, we provided early product delivery of a high-end switch based on the newly released double data rate, or DDR, chipset to a limited number of OEM and end customers desiring the newest technology available. Because the system did not perform as expected in the field under certain high stress environments, we had to defer recognition of $7.3 million of revenue, substantially all of which was recognized during the second and third quarters of 2007. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention from normal business operations. If our business liability insurance is inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition could be harmed. We have limited visibility into end customer demand for our solutions, which introduces uncertainty into our manufacturing forecasts and business planning, and could negatively impact our financial results. Our business is subject to uncertainty because of our limited visibility into end customers’ future buying patterns and demands, which poses a challenge for us in predicting the amount and timing of our revenue. Sales of 9 Table of Contents our solutions are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. In addition, we place orders with our suppliers and contract manufacturers based on forecasts of our OEM customers’ demand, which are based on numerous assumptions, each of which may introduce variability and error into our estimates. This process requires us to make multiple demand forecast assumptions with respect to both our OEM customers’ and end customers’ demands. Because the lead time for fulfilling an order from an OEM customer is typically one to two months, while the lead-time to order certain of the components and assemble our products can be three to four months, forecasts of demand for our products must be made in advance of customer orders. In addition, we base business decisions regarding our growth on our forecasts of end customer demand. As we grow, anticipating end customer demand may become increasingly challenging. If we overestimate end customer demand, we may order more inventory of components and allocate more resources to manufacturing products than is necessary. In the event that we are unable to sell our finished product or in the event that our inventory of components becomes obsolete, we may be required to incur significant charges and write-offs related to our inventory. This could have an adverse affect on our balance sheet and results of operations. Conversely, if we underestimate end customer demand, we could forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our end customer relationships. If we fail to develop new products or enhance the performance of our existing solutions with improved technologies to meet rapid technological change and market demands in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business will suffer. We invest heavily in advancing our technology and developing new solutions to keep pace with rapid changes in customer demand and with our competitors’ efforts to advance their technology. In particular, we must satisfy demand for improved computing performance. We are currently engaged in the development process for next generation solutions in order to meet these demands. The development process for these advancements is lengthy and requires us to accurately anticipate technological innovations and market trends. Developing and enhancing these products can be time-consuming, costly and complex. Successful product design, development and introduction on a timely basis require that we: • design innovative and performance-enhancing features that differentiate our solutions from those of our competitors; • identify emerging technological trends in our target markets; • maintain effective sales and marketing strategies; • respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others; and • adjust to changing market conditions quickly and cost-effectively. We may be unable to successfully develop additional next-generation products or product enhancements. In addition, we cannot provide any assurance that new products or enhancements will be completed in a timely manner. Delays in completing the development and introduction of products that address new applications or markets could cause our sales to decline and our operating loss to increase. Furthermore, we may make substantial investments in the research and development of new products that are then not accepted by the market. If we fail to address effectively the changing demands of customers and to develop the required enhancements to our products in order to keep pace with advances in technology, our business and revenues will be adversely affected. In addition, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to obtain certification, as required, for our existing or newly developed products by national regulators. If we fail to manage our future growth effectively, we may not be able to market and sell our products and services successfully. We have expanded our operations significantly since we began offering grid computing solutions in 2003 and anticipate that further expansion will be required. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our management’s ability to plan and direct our expansion and growth successfully, including training our sales personnel to become productive and generate revenue, forecasting revenue, controlling expenses, implementing and enhancing infrastructure, addressing new markets and expanding international operations in addition to 10 Table of Contents maintaining and expanding our research and development efforts. A failure to manage our growth effectively could materially and adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and services. In addition, in order to accommodate our growth, our contract manufacturers may need to increase their manufacturing capacity. If our contract manufacturers are unable to maintain the required manufacturing capacity to meet our requirements, the demand for our products may exceed their capacity, which could result in a backlog of orders and harm our ability to meet our customers’ timing demands. Fluctuations in our revenues and operating results on a quarterly and annual basis could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and have fluctuated in the past, and may fluctuate in the future, from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. It is possible that our operating results in some quarters and years will be below market expectations. This may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. In particular, we have limited exposure to end customer demand upon which we predict future sales of our solutions. Our OEM customers derive a substantial portion of their revenues from sales to a small number of end customers. If a small number of end customers defer delivery or installation of our products for even a short period of time, recognition of a significant amount of revenues may be delayed. In limited circumstances, we do not recognize revenue upon a sale to an OEM customer because the sale by the OEM customer to the end customer is subject to performance of an acceptance test by the end customer. As a result, we may experience quarterly fluctuations in revenues if OEM products incorporating our solutions do not meet the technical specifications required by the end customers. Additional factors that may affect our quarterly and annual operating results include: • the loss of one or more of our OEM customers, or a significant reduction or postponement of orders from our customers; • our customers’ sales outlooks, purchasing patterns and inventory levels based on end-customer demands and general economic conditions; • our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new or enhanced products in a timely manner; • product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions; • changes in the relative sales mix of our products; • changes in our cost of finished products; • the potential loss of key manufacturer and supplier relationships; and • the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of other components used in our OEM customers’ products. The international nature of our business exposes us to financial and regulatory risks and we may have difficulty protecting our intellectual property in some foreign countries. To date, we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from OEM and other customers located outside the United States, principally in Europe, which accounted for 36% of our revenues in 2007, and the Asia-Pacific region and Japan, which accounted for 11% of our revenues in 2007. The international nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks, including the following: • the difficulty of managing and staffing multiple offices, which we currently maintain in North America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia-Pacific, and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • difficulties in enforcing contracts and implementing our accounts receivable function, which is currently centralized and introduces translation, proximity and cultural challenges; 11 Table of Contents • political and economic instability, particularly in markets such as Latin America, Asia and other emerging markets; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries where we may seek to expand our sales in the future, such as China and the Russian Federation; • changes in regulatory requirements, such as the regulations recently adopted by the European Union regarding recycling of, and prohibition of hazardous substances in, electrical and electronic equipment; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; and • imposition of or increases in tariffs. As we expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully protect our technology through the issuance and enforcement of patents and other means of protection, our business could be harmed significantly. Our ability to prevent competitors from gaining access to our technology is essential to our success. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, we may lose an important advantage in the markets in which we compete. Trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as our internal confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, are at the core of our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. As of March 31, 2008, we had two issued U.S. patent and four pending U.S. patent applications. We also have three pending counterpart applications outside of the United States, filed pursuant to the Patent Cooperation Treaty. While we plan to protect our intellectual property with, among other things, patent protection, there can be no assurance that: • current or future U.S. or foreign patents applications will be approved; • our issued patents will protect our intellectual property and not be held invalid or unenforceable if challenged by third parties via litigation or administrative proceeding; • we will obtain a favorable outcome if we assert our intellectual property rights against third parties; • we will succeed in protecting our technology adequately in all key jurisdictions in which we or our competitors operate; • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business; or • others will not independently develop similar or competing products or methods or design around any patents that may be issued to us. In addition, our intellectual property is also used in a large number of foreign countries. Effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, such as China and the Russian Federation. As a result, it may be difficult for us to protect our intellectual property from misuses or infringement by other companies in these countries. We expect this to become a greater problem for us as our OEM customers increase their manufacturing presence in countries that provide less protection for intellectual property. Litigation and administrative proceedings are inherently uncertain and divert resources that could be directed towards other business priorities. We may not be able to obtain positive results and may spend considerable resources in our efforts to defend and protect our intellectual property. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection vary from one jurisdiction to another and may not be attainable in every country in which our products are available. Our failure to obtain patents, including with claims of a scope necessary to cover our technology, or the invalidation of our patents, may weaken our competitive position and may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. 12 Table of Contents In addition to patent protection, we customarily require our employees and subcontractors to execute confidentiality agreements or agree to confidentiality undertakings when their relationship with us begins. Typically, our employment contracts also include assignment of intellectual property rights for inventions developed by employees, and non-disclosure of confidential information and non-compete clauses for twelve months following termination of an employee’s employment with us. We cannot provide any assurance that the terms of these agreements are being observed and will be observed in the future. Because our product designs and software are stored electronically and thus are highly portable, we attempt to reduce the portability of our designs and software by physically protecting our servers through the use of closed networks, which prevent external access to our servers. We cannot be certain, however, that such protection will adequately deter individuals or groups from wrongful access to our technology. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary information will be sufficient. In addition, to protect our intellectual property, we may become involved in litigation, which could result in substantial expenses, divert the attention of management, cause significant delays, materially disrupt the conduct of our business or adversely affect our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Our use of open source and third-party software could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions. We incorporate open source software into our switch chassis and GridStack software. Open source software is accessible, usable and modifiable by anyone, provided that users and modifiers abide by certain licensing requirements. The original developers of the open source code provide no warranties on such code. For example, our products incorporate open source code such as an embedded Linux-based operating system. The Linux-based operating system has been developed under a license (known as a General Public License), which permits it to be liberally copied, modified and distributed. Under certain conditions, the use of some open source code to create derivative code may obligate us to make the resulting derivative code available to others at no cost. The circumstances under which our use of open source code would compel us to offer derivative code at no cost are subject to varying interpretations. While we monitor our use of open source code in an effort to avoid situations that would require us to make parts of our core proprietary technology freely available as open source code, we cannot guarantee that such circumstances will not occur or that a court would not conclude that, under a different interpretation of an open source license, certain of our core technology must be made available as open source code. The use of such open source code may also ultimately require us to take remedial action, such as replacing certain code used in our products, paying a royalty to use some open source code, making certain proprietary source code available to others or discontinuing certain products, that may divert resources away from our development efforts. The license under which we licensed the embedded Linux-based operating system is currently the subject of litigation in the case of The SCO Group, Inc. v. International Business Machines Corp., pending in the United States District Court for the District of Utah. SCO filed its complaint in 2003 to which IBM asserted counterclaims. The parties had briefed certain issues for summary judgment and other issues were being argued when SCO filed for bankruptcy in July 2007. The Court administratively closed the case, which could be reopened upon a motion from either party. In its complaint, SCO alleged that certain versions of the Linux operating system contributed by IBM contain unauthorized UNIX code or derivative works of UNIX code, which SCO claims it owns. If the court were to rule in SCO’s favor and find, for example, that Linux-based products, or significant portions of them, may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, we may have to modify our products and/or seek a license to use the code in question, which may or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, and this could materially adversely affect our business. Regardless of the merit of SCO’s allegations, uncertainty concerning SCO’s allegations could adversely affect our products and customer relationships. We may also find that we need to incorporate certain proprietary third-party technologies, including software programs, into our products in the future. Licenses to relevant third-party technology may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Therefore, we could face delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed and integrated into our current products. Such delays could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial conditions. 13 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties that, regardless of merit, could result in litigation and our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert that our products and other intellectual property infringe, or may infringe their proprietary rights. We are not currently subject to any proceedings for infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights and are not aware of any parties that intend to pursue such claims against us. Any such claims, regardless of merit, could result in litigation, which could result in substantial expenses, divert the attention of management, cause significant delays and materially disrupt the conduct of our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a consequence of such claims, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award, develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty-bearing licensing agreements, stop selling our products or re-brand our products. If it appears necessary, we may seek to license intellectual property that we are alleged to infringe. Such licensing agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Litigation is inherently uncertain and any adverse decision could result in a loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from others and otherwise negatively affect our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to retain our executive officers and attract and retain other skilled employees, we may not be able to timely develop, sell or support our products. Our success depends in large part on the continued contribution of our research and development and sales and marketing teams, as well as our management. In particular, we depend on the continued service of Miron (Ronnie) Kenneth, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman. We do not carry key man life insurance for any of our management. We have entered into employment agreements with all of our executive officers, including Mr. Kenneth. Our employment agreements do not specify a minimum employment term, nor do they guarantee the continued service of our executive officers with us. In addition, the enforceability of covenants not to compete in Israel and the United States is subject to limitations and may not be enforceable at all. If our business continues to grow, we will need to add to our research and development and sales and marketing teams, as well as to members of management in order to manage our growth. The process of hiring, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operation is a lengthy and expensive one. The market for qualified personnel is very competitive because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills, sales skills and understanding of our products and technology. This is particularly true in Israel where competition for qualified personnel is intense due to the density of technology companies. Our failure to hire and retain qualified personnel could cause our revenues to decline and impair our ability to meet our research and development and sales objectives. Our business is subject to increasingly complex environmental legislation that may increase our costs and the risk of noncompliance. We face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the material composition of many of our products. For instance, the European Union has adopted certain directives to facilitate the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment sold in the European Union, including the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment that restricts the use of lead, mercury and certain other substances in electrical and electronic products placed on the market in the European Union after July 1, 2006. The European Union has also approved a directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, which requires that all electrical and electronic equipment placed for sale in the European Union be appropriately labeled regarding waste disposal and contains other obligations regarding the collection and recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment. In connection with our compliance with these and other environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs, including research and development costs and costs associated with assuring the supply of compliant components from our suppliers. Similar laws and regulations have been proposed or may be enacted in other regions in which we do business. Other environmental regulation may require us to reengineer our solutions to utilize components that are 14 Table of Contents compatible with these regulations. Such reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us or disrupt our operations or logistics. Our international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuation in currency exchange rates. In 2007, we derived the majority of our revenues in U.S. dollars. Although almost all of our revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of our expenses were denominated in New Israeli Shekels (“NIS”) and to a significantly lesser extent in Euros. Our NIS-denominated expenses consist principally of salaries, building leases and related personnel expenses. We anticipate that a material portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in NIS. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the NIS, there will be a negative impact on our profit margins. The NIS appreciation (devaluation) against the U.S. dollar amounted to 6.8% in 2005, (8.2)% in 2006 and 9.0% in 2007. We currently do not hedge our currency exposure through financial derivatives. In addition, if we wish to maintain the dollar-denominated value of our products in non-U.S. markets, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or default on payment. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our shareholders, reduce our financial resources and result in increased expenditures. In the future, we may acquire other businesses, products or technologies. We have not made any acquisitions to date and our ability to make acquisitions is therefore unproven. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, or these acquisitions may be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. In addition, any acquisitions that we make could pose challenges in integrating personnel, technologies and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from such businesses. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expense and adversely impact our business. Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce employees’ covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. It is our practice to have our employees and subcontractors sign non-compete agreements. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a period, typically limited to twelve months following the end of employment. Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may be unable to enforce these agreements and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from acquiring the expertise our former employees acquired while working for us. If we cannot enforce our employees’ non-compete agreements, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. We have not yet determined if our internal control over financial reporting is effective pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are required to comply with the internal control evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ending December 31, 2008. We are in the process of determining whether our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This process may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. In particular, we have experienced rapid growth during the last three years and may continue to do so in the future. As a result, certain elements of our internal control have been strained and may need to be enhanced and additional controls and functions implemented. Irrespective of compliance with Section 404, any failure of our internal control could have a material adverse effect on our stated results of operations and harm our reputation. As a result, we may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses, as well as higher independent auditor fees during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. Further, we may need to hire additional qualified personnel in order for us to establish or maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to implement these changes 15 Table of Contents effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in an adverse opinion on internal controls from our independent auditors. Risks Related to our Ordinary Shares The market price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could fluctuate substantially. Since our shares commenced trading on the Nasdaq Global Market in July 2007 and through March 31, 2008, the closing price has varied from a high of $8.40 to a low of $4.98. Our share price will likely be impacted by our quarterly financial performance, which may vary in the future, and may not meet our guidance or the expectations of analysts or investors. This may lead to additional volatility in our share price. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares may be impacted by other factors, including: • announcements or introductions of technological innovations or new products, or product enhancements or pricing policies by us or our competitors; • disputes or other developments with respect to our or our competitors’ intellectual property rights; • announcements of strategic partnerships, joint ventures or other agreements by us or our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • regulatory developments in the markets in which we sell our product; • our sale of ordinary shares or other securities in the future; • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth of our markets; and • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole. The trading volume of our shares has been relatively low, which may result in the loss of research coverage by securities analysts. Moreover, we cannot assure you that securities analysts will maintain research coverage of our company and our ordinary shares. If our future quarterly operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our ordinary shares may decline. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility. Any securities litigation claims brought against us could result in substantial expense and divert management’s attention from our business. Future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market and low trading volume could adversely affect our share price. As of March 31, 2008, we had 20,565,775 ordinary shares outstanding. Approximately 52.8% of these shares are “restricted securities” available for resale on the Nasdaq Global Market, all of which are subject to volume limitations under Rule 144. Most of these restricted securities are held by the largest beneficial owners of our shares. Future sales of these restricted shares, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We have experienced a low trading volume of our ordinary shares since our initial public offering and if one or a small number of parties buys or sells a large number of our ordinary shares, we may experience volatility in our share price and the price and liquidity of our shares may be adversely affected. The holders of approximately 52.8% of our ordinary shares will be entitled to request that we register their shares for resale and certain other shareholders have the right to include their shares in any such registration statement or in a registration statement for any public offering we undertake in the future. The registration or sale of any of these shares could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to drop significantly. See “Item 7.B: Related Party Transactions — Registration Rights.” The ownership of our ordinary shares is highly concentrated, and your interests may conflict with the interests of our existing shareholders. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates, together with our current significant shareholders beneficially own approximately 56.7% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Moreover, three of our shareholders, BCF II Belgium Holding SPRL, Pitango Venture Capital and Vertex Venture Capital beneficially own approximately 16 Table of Contents 47.1% of our outstanding ordinary shares. In addition, individual partners of these shareholders serve on our board of directors. Accordingly, these shareholders, acting as a group, could exercise a controlling influence on us and, even if they do not act as a group, will continue to have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, amending our articles of association, raising future capital, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. These shareholders could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if such a change of control would benefit our other shareholders. The significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. Our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a Passive Foreign Investment Company. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. To determine if at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income we may use the market capitalization method for certain periods. Under the market capitalization method, the total asset value of a company would be considered to equal the fair market value of its outstanding shares plus outstanding indebtedness on a relevant testing date. Because the market price of our ordinary shares is likely to fluctuate and the market price of the shares of technology companies historically has been especially volatile, and because the market price may affect the determination of whether we will be considered a passive foreign investment company, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year. See “Item 10.E: Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” We may need to raise additional capital in the future and may be unable to do so on acceptable terms. We believe that the net proceeds from our initial public offering, together with our existing cash balances and cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months. If our estimates of revenues, expenses or capital or liquidity requirements change or are inaccurate or if cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or arrange additional debt financing. We cannot be certain that we will be able to sell additional equity or arrange additional debt financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could limit our ability to grow and carry out our business plan, or that any such additional financing, if raised through the issuance of equity securities, will not be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Risks Relating to our Location in Israel Conditions in Israel could adversely affect our business. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices, and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity, which began in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity into 2008. In mid-2006, a war took place between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon, resulting in thousands of rockets being fired from Lebanon up to approximately 50 miles into Israel. Furthermore, several countries, principally in the Middle East, still restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies if hostilities in Israel continue or increase. These restrictions may limit materially our ability to sell our solutions to companies in these countries. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our operations and product development, cause our revenues to decrease and adversely affect the share price of publicly traded companies having operations in Israel, such as us. Additionally, any hostilities involving Israel may have a material adverse effect on our facilities or on the facilities of our local suppliers and 17 Table of Contents manufacturers in which event, all or a portion of our inventory may be damaged, and our ability to deliver products to customers may be materially adversely affected. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of personnel to perform military service. As of December 31, 2007, we had 174 employees of whom 136 were based in Israel. Our employees in Israel, including executive officers, may be called upon to perform periodic military reserve duty until they reach age 49 and, in emergency circumstances, could be called to active duty. In response to increased tension and hostilities, there have been since September 2000 occasional call-ups of military reservists, including in connection with the mid-2006 war in Lebanon, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of one or more of our key employees for military service. Such disruption could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, the absence of a significant number of the employees of our suppliers and contract manufacturers related to military service or the absence for extended periods of one or more of their key employees for military service may disrupt their operations in which event our ability to deliver products to customers may be materially adversely affected. Our operations may be affected by negative economic conditions or labor unrest in Israel. General strikes or work stoppages, occasionally carried out or threatened by Israeli trade unions due to labor disputes may have an adverse effect on the Israeli economy and on our business, including our ability to deliver products to our customers and to receive raw materials from our suppliers in a timely manner. These general strikes or work stoppages may prevent us from shipping our assembled products from Israel to our OEM customers, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. The tax benefits that are available to us require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and taxes. Our investment program in equipment at our facility in Herzeliya Pituach, Israel has been granted approved enterprise status and we are therefore eligible for tax benefits under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, referred to as the Investment Law. We expect to utilize these tax benefits after we utilize our net operating loss carry forwards. As of December 31, 2007, the end of our last fiscal year, our net operating loss carry forwards for Israeli tax purposes amounted to approximately $61 million. To remain eligible for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions stipulated in the Investment Law and its regulations and the criteria set forth in the specific certificate of approval. If we do not meet these requirements, the tax benefits would be canceled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits that we have received. These tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. Effective April 1, 2005, the Investment Law was amended. As a result, the criteria for new investments qualified to receive tax benefits were revised. No assurance can be given that we will, in the future, be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under this law. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would increase our tax liability in the future, which would reduce our profits or increase our losses. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, by future acquisitions, our increased activities might not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. See “ Item 10.E — Taxation — Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs — Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959.” The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to comply with such restrictions or these conditions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. We have received grants from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel, pursuant to the provisions of The Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 1984, referred to as 18 Table of Contents the Research and Development Law. Under Israeli law and the approved plans, royalties on the revenues derived from sales of all of our products are payable to the Israeli government, generally at the rate of 3.5%, up to the amount of the received grants as adjusted for fluctuation in the U.S. dollar/NIS exchange rate. The amounts received after January 1, 1999, bear interest equal to the 12-month London Interbank Offered Rate applicable to dollar deposits that is published on the first business day of each calendar year. Royalties are paid on our consolidated revenues. We did not apply for or receive grants in 2006 or 2007, although we did receive grants totaling $5.6 million through December 31, 2005. In April 2008, we made an early payment of $2.7 million to the Office of the Chief Scientist to conclude our financial obligations under our participation in the Office of the Chief Scientist’s sponsored research and development grant program. We recorded this payment in our first quarter results of 2008 as a one-time payment in our cost of revenues. Although we have repaid the grants, their terms continue to prohibit us from manufacturing products outside of Israel or transferring intellectual property rights in technologies developed using these grants inside or outside of Israel without special approvals. Even if we receive approval to manufacture our products outside of Israel, we may be required to pay an increased total amount of royalties, which may be up to 300% of the grant amount plus interest, depending on the manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel. This restriction may impair our ability to outsource manufacturing or engage in similar arrangements for those products or technologies. Know-how developed under an approved research and development program may not be transferred to any third parties, except in certain circumstances and subject to prior approval. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions and restrictions imposed by the Research and Development Law or by the specific terms under which we received the grants, we may be required to refund any grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors in Israel or the United States, or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Israel. The majority of our executive officers and directors are not residents of the United States, and the majority of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or any of these persons in a U.S. or Israeli court, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws on the grounds that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. Even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing the matters described above. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from those under Delaware law. Since we are an Israeli company, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in a Delaware corporation. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his, her or its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness towards the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revisions in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. 19 Table of Contents Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, prevent or make undesirable an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Our articles of association contain certain provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control. These provisions include a classified board of directors and supermajority provisions to amend certain provisions of our articles of association. In addition, Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders, and may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. See “Item 10 — Additional Information; Description of Share Capital — Anti-Takeover Measures” and “— Acquisitions under Israeli Law.” 