ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face risks in operating our business, including risks that may prevent us from achieving our business objectives or that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We present these risks according to the following categories: Risks related to Our Industry and Business; Our Capital Needs and Financial Position; Regulation and Litigation; New Public Company Status Following our Separation from Man Group; Our Operations and Technology; and Our Status as a Bermuda Company. 24 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY AND BUSINESS Changes in U.S. and international market factors that reduce trading volumes or interest rates could significantly harm our business. We generate revenues primarily from transaction fees we earn from executing and clearing client trades and from interest income we earn on cash balances in our clients’ accounts. During fiscal 2008, we derived approximately 33.5% of our total revenues, and approximately 66.5% of our revenues, net of interest and transaction-based expenses, from executing and clearing client trades. Similarly, during fiscal 2008, we derived approximately 60.9% of our total revenues from interest income, and approximately 30.8% of our revenues, net of interest and transaction-based expenses, from net interest income. These revenue sources are substantially dependent on client trading volumes and prevailing interest rates. Reduced trading volumes could hurt our business. Our clients’ trading volumes are particularly dependent on their demand for exchange-traded and over-the-counter, or OTC, derivatives products, which relate to interest rates, equities, foreign exchange and commodities. Demand for these products, in turn, is driven by a number of factors, one of the most significant being the volatility of the market prices of the underlying assets—that is, the extent to which and how rapidly those prices change during a given period. In general, demand for derivative products tends to rise when the volatility of the underlying assets is high and to decline when it is low. In recent years, volatility in the principal markets in which we operate has contributed to rising client trading volumes and thus rising revenues. Were we to enter a period of lower volatility in any of our principal markets in the future, our trading volumes and revenues may grow more slowly or even decline. Moreover, declines in trading volume could also make the markets less liquid—meaning that market participants could find it harder to sell or otherwise close out their trading positions when they want to—which would discourage active trading and further depress trading volumes. Diminished volatility could occur, for example, if interest rates were to remain unchanged or equity prices were to remain relatively flat for an extended period. Trading volumes have also increased in recent years due to the growth and enhanced sophistication of significant market participants, such as hedge funds. To the extent these trends do not continue, or to the extent that they reverse, demand for our services in many areas of our business would suffer. Trading volumes generated by significant market participants could decline for a variety of reasons. Market conditions in general could deteriorate, affecting many participants’ trading activities. For example, while recent market conditions have increased market volatility in the short-term, sustained market uncertainty could reduce our trading volumes in the future. Alternatively, one or more large market participants could suffer substantial losses that in turn could create a systemic financial risk and prompt other participants to curtail their trading. The latter type of “shock” events have occurred from time to time involving prominent hedge funds, such as Long Term Capital Management in 1998 and Amaranth in 2006 and, more recently, involving subprime lenders. Our trading volumes could also be adversely affected as the current bull markets in commodities and the volatile market conditions in equities begin to recede or come to an end. In the past three years, prices in some of these markets have risen substantially, and in some cases, such as oil and gas, to unprecedented levels. These market conditions have stimulated increasing demand for derivative products, and our trading volumes and revenues could be adversely affected as and when the current bull markets in commodities or volatile market conditions in equities come to an end. Changes in interest rates could hurt our business. In most cases, our interest income is directly affected by the spread between the short-term interest rates we pay our clients on their balances and the short-term rates we earn from re-investing their cash. While these spreads have remained within a relatively constant range over time, they can widen or narrow when interest rate trends change. In addition, a portion of our interest income relates to client balances on which we do not pay interest and thus is directly affected by the absolute level of short-term interest rates. As a result, a portion of our interest income will decline if interest rates fall, regardless of the spreads that determine most of our interest income. Overall, interest rates had risen from 2004 until 2007, which had helped us to manage our interest rate spreads effectively and had increased our interest income on non-interest bearing client balances, and thus had a generally positive impact on our revenues. As interest rates have declined over recent months and, as spreads begin to narrow, our revenues could be adversely affected. Short-term interest rates are highly sensitive to factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. Trading volumes and interest rates could be affected by many factors. The volume of transactions our clients conduct with us and the rates at which we earn interest income on our clients’ balances are directly affected by a number of U.S. and international market factors that are beyond our control, including: • economic, political and market conditions; 25 Table of Contents • broad trends in the brokerage and finance industry; • changes in levels of trading activity in the broader marketplace; • supply and demand for commodities; • financial strength of market participants; • price levels and price volatility in the derivatives, interest rate, equity, foreign exchange and commodity markets; • legislative and regulatory changes; • the actions of our competitors; • consolidation among exchanges; • the introduction of new products; • changes in cost and fee structures; • changes in government monetary policies; • the level and volatility of foreign exchange rates; • disruptions in markets due to terrorism, war or extreme weather events; and • inflation. Any one or more of the factors listed above, or other factors, may contribute to a decline in trading volumes or fluctuation in interest rates. Any significant decline in trading volume in the financial markets generally, or the derivatives, interest rate, equity, foreign exchange or commodity markets in particular, or any significant change in short-term interest rate spreads or overall levels could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We face intense competition from other companies, and if we are not able to compete successfully with them, our business may be harmed. The derivatives and cash brokerage industry is fragmented and highly competitive, and we expect that competition will continue to intensify in the future. We compete with a significant number of brokers in the U.S. and throughout the world in one or more markets. Although no one competitor operates in all of our markets, one broker, Newedge, which is a large, well capitalized financial institution with global operations, competes in many of our markets. In addition, affiliates of the largest commercial and investment banks, including Citi, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and UBS compete with us in key areas such as clearing services in some of the institutional client segments we service, which is a significant source of our revenue. We compete with a large number of independent brokerage firms, such as R.J. O’Brien in the United States, as well as regional brokers in particular markets around the world. We have also witnessed the proliferation of online trading platforms for cash products outside the United States, which now compete directly with our retail and OTC trading operations in Europe and in the Asia/Pacific region. Our competitors may have greater resources than we do. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have larger client bases, more established name recognition and greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel resources than we do. These resources may enable them, among other things, to: • develop products and services that are similar to ours, or that are more attractive to clients than ours, in one or more of our markets; • provide products and services we do not offer or in more markets than we do; • provide execution and clearing services that are more rapid, reliable or comprehensive, or less expensive than ours; • offer products and services at prices below ours to gain market share and to promote other businesses, such as prime brokerage, in which we engage to only a limited extent; • offer better, faster and more reliable technology; • outbid us for desirable acquisition targets; • market, promote and sell their products and services more effectively; and • develop stronger relationships with clients. Our competitors may be better capitalized than we are. In particular, our competitors, especially the largest commercial and investment banking firms, may have access to capital in greater amounts and at lower costs than we do. As we describe further below in this section, access to capital is critical to our business to satisfy regulatory obligations and liquidity requirements. Among other things, access to capital determines our creditworthiness, which if perceived negatively in the market could materially impair our ability to provide clearing services and attract client assets, both of which are important sources of revenue. Access to capital also determines the degree to which we can expand our operations. Thus, if we are unable to maintain or increase our capital on competitive terms, we could be at a 26 Table of Contents significant competitive disadvantage, and our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and earnings could be materially impaired. We are highly focused on credit risk management in part because we do not enjoy the same access to capital as some of our competitors. As a consequence, we frequently require additional collateral protection from our clients beyond legally mandated levels. This practice has at times, and may continue to, place us at a competitive disadvantage. We may not be competitive in developing regions. We regard emerging international markets, particularly in the Asia/Pacific region, as an important area of potential growth for our business. Due to cultural, regulatory and other factors relevant to those markets, however, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in those regions relative to local firms or to international firms that have a well established local presence. In some regions, we may need to acquire local capacity or enter into joint ventures with local firms in order to gain a presence, and we may face intense competition from other international firms over relatively scarce opportunities for market entry. This competition could make it difficult for us to expand our business as planned. New or existing competitors could make it difficult for us to maintain our current market share or increase it in desirable markets. Even if they do not significantly erode or limit our market share, they may offer their services at lower prices, and we may be required to reduce our fees significantly to remain competitive. A fee reduction without a commensurate reduction in expenses would decrease our profitability. The current trend toward electronic trade execution has diminished the role of some brokers in the execution process. We must continue to offer attractive, value-added services to keep pace with this trend and other industry changes. While clients have traditionally relied on brokers to execute orders (who receive them by telephone and route them to exchanges), a growing number of exchanges have developed systems that permit orders to be routed through brokers electronically, thereby enabling clients to avoid more costly voice-execution services and pressuring brokers to lower their execution commission rates. In a number of cases, exchanges provide large clients with direct electronic access, enabling them to bypass brokers in the trade-execution process altogether, which is known as broker disintermediation. For example, some of our largest institutional clients are now able to execute orders on some exchanges directly by electronic means and, as a result, the portion of the fees we earn from these clients for execution services has, in some cases, declined relative to the portion we earn from providing clearing services for these trades. Although we believe that we are less vulnerable to this trend than other brokers, we expect to face increasing pressure to enhance the value-added execution services we can offer and to expand our role as a provider of clearing services in order to retain or expand our market share, as exchanges are devoting substantial resources to developing more efficient ways for clients to execute orders with reduced broker involvement. To the extent we are unsuccessful, our revenues and profitability will suffer. Additionally, market structure and practices in our industry could change significantly in other ways, including some we may not foresee and we may not be able to adapt to these changes on a timely and cost-effective basis. To the extent that we do not adapt as rapidly or efficiently to industry changes as our competitors do, our business will suffer. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain our existing clients or attract new clients. The success of our business depends on our ability to maintain and increase our client base. Our clients are particularly sensitive to the diversity and flexibility of the services, products, markets and regions that we make available and the quality, speed and reliability of our order execution and clearing services, as well as the costs of using our services. Because the financial services industry in general, and the futures brokerage industry in particular, are subject to rapid innovation in products and services, and particularly with regard to technological development, we face intense competitive pressure to continue enhancing our product and service offerings in order to maintain and increase our client base. To do so, we must continue to offer the breadth of trading options, the quality, speed and reliability of brokerage services and the pricing that clients desire. This will require not only continuing to perform at current levels but also finding ways to improve and diversify our client service on a regular basis. In particular, advanced, fast and reliable systems technology with global reach has been a critical aspect of client service, and we must be able to keep pace with the important innovations in our industry, which can be costly and present operational and other risks. We may also face more difficulties in attracting new clients if we fail to offer as broad a range of services as those of our competitors, such as investment banks, that also engage in non-brokerage businesses. Further, if our reputation for quality, speed and reliability is impaired, or if we fail to create new products and services or enter into new markets and regions, we may not be able to attract new clients, which may inhibit our growth. Our clients are not obligated to use our services and can easily and quickly switch providers of execution and clearing services, transfer their positions or decrease their trading activity conducted through us at any time. This is particularly true for our institutional clients, who are sophisticated users of brokerage services, often have relationships with a number of competing brokers and generate a disproportionately large share of our client trading volume. As a result, we are vulnerable to potentially significant and sudden loss of revenues from our institutional client base. Similarly, while private clients in the past have gen- 27 Table of Contents erally been less likely to change brokers, their demand for brokerage services has generally been sensitive to broader market trends, so that a significant downturn or unusually heightened volatility in the derivatives or cash markets could lead to a substantial decline in revenues from our private client base. Many of our clients have longstanding relationships with individuals or teams within our company. To the extent any of those individuals or teams seek alternative employment, we may be in jeopardy of losing those clients. We receive a significant amount of our private client business through our network of introducing brokers. Failure to maintain these relationships could adversely affect our business. We have relationships with introducing brokers who assist us in establishing new client relationships and provide marketing and other services for a significant number of our clients for whom we execute and clear trades. We compensate these introducing brokers for introducing clients to us. Many of our relationships with introducing brokers are non-exclusive or may be terminated by the brokers on relatively short notice. In addition, our introducing brokers have no obligation to provide us with new client relationships or minimum levels of transaction volume. Our failure to maintain our relationships with these introducing brokers or the failure of these introducing brokers to establish and maintain client relationships would result in a loss of revenues, which could adversely affect our business. To the extent any of our competitors offers more favorable compensation to one of our introducing brokers, we could lose the broker’s services or have to increase the compensation we pay to retain the broker. Our relationships with our introducing brokers also may expose us to significant reputational and other risks. See “—Risks Related to Regulation and Litigation—We could be harmed by employee or introducing broker misconduct or errors that are difficult to detect and deter”. If we fail to attract or retain highly skilled management and other employees, our business may be harmed. Our future success depends in large part on our management team, who possess extensive knowledge and managerial skill with respect to the critical aspects of our business, including our ability to operate globally across multiple markets and to manage our risk. We rely in particular on Kevin R. Davis, our Chief Executive Officer, as well as other members of our management team. Failure to retain Mr. Davis or one or more members of our management team could adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively and execute our business strategy. Our business is also dependent on highly skilled employees who provide specialized brokerage services to our clients and oversee our compliance and technology functions. Many of these employees have extensive knowledge and experience in highly technical and complex areas of the derivatives and cash brokerage industry. Because of the complexity and risks associated with the futures brokerage business and the specialized knowledge required to conduct this business effectively, and because the growth in our industry has increased demand for qualified personnel, many of our employees could readily find employment at other firms if they chose to do so, particularly if we fail to continue to provide competitive levels of compensation. Many of our employees also have extensive institutional knowledge of our services, products, markets and client base. As many of them have long-standing relationships with particular clients, the departure of any such employees could adversely impact our relationships with those clients. If we fail to retain our current employees, it would be difficult and costly to identify, recruit and train replacements needed to continue conducting our business. In addition, if we fail to attract highly qualified personnel going forward, we may have difficulty expanding our business and our competitiveness may suffer. In particular, failure to retain and attract qualified compliance and systems personnel could result in execution errors or regulatory infractions. Consequently, failure to retain and attract highly skilled employees—both management and non-management—could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to retain and attract these personnel will depend heavily on the amount of compensation we offer. Compensation levels in the brokerage industry are highly competitive and can fluctuate significantly from year to year. Consequently, our profitability could decline as we compete for personnel. Our acquisition and growth strategy involves significant risks, and if we are unable to manage them effectively, our business will be materially harmed. In the past, we have significantly expanded our business both organically and through acquisitions. We have made acquisitions to advance our strategic development, by extending our presence into markets we have previously not served, and to achieve earnings growth through economies of scale, by adding clients and business in markets we already serve. We have generally consummated acquisitions either by purchasing client accounts from other brokers or by acquiring entire brokerage units or businesses. In some cases, we have recruited other brokers’ client personnel. 28 Table of Contents In order to continue our growth, we expect to continue to acquire other companies, personnel or assets. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties in the integration and retention of acquired client accounts or personnel and, in cases where we acquire an entire company or unit, the integration and effective deployment of operations or technologies. For example, the timely transfer of client accounts is key to the success of our acquisitions and a failure to quickly integrate our software systems with those of an acquired company could result in errors or service disruptions, which would adversely impact our ability to maintain an ongoing relationship with any affected clients; • strain on our operational, information technology, compliance and financial systems and managerial controls and procedures, and the need to modify our systems or to add management resources; • unforeseen difficulties in the acquired operations and disruption of our ongoing business; • failure to achieve cost savings or other financial or operating objectives with respect to an acquisition; • amortization of acquired intangible assets, which would reduce future reported earnings; • possible adverse short-term effects on our cash flows or operating results; • increased regulatory oversight and obligations, including higher capital requirements; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • assumption of unknown material liabilities or regulatory non-compliance issues; and • failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals in the event of a change in control or otherwise. For example, when we acquired the Refco assets, we incurred substantial severance and other acquisition costs that reduced our net income. In addition, by rapidly expanding our futures and securities brokerage operations through recent acquisitions, our compliance and supervisory functions have had to assume greater responsibility, which could undermine their effectiveness, and we have had to devote additional resources to these functions. Moreover, difficulties and delays associated with integrating an acquired business or unit may produce unforeseen regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert the attention of management from the ongoing operation of our business. We may also face challenges in identifying pre-existing weaknesses or deficiencies in the acquired business’ risk management, internal controls or technology systems. Competition for suitable acquisition targets is intense. Many of our largest competitors have substantially greater financial resources than we do and are able to outbid us on the most desirable targets. We may lack the financial resources necessary to consummate acquisitions in the future or may be unable to secure financing on favorable terms. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition targets, or to complete any transactions we identify on sufficiently favorable terms, to meet our strategic goals. We also may be unable to obtain regulatory or other governmental approvals that may be necessary to complete acquisitions. In addition, any future acquisitions may entail significant transaction costs and risks associated with entry into new markets. Even when we complete an acquisition, we may not realize the benefits we expected to attain. In accordance with our capital plan, we have entered into a commitment letter with several banks to refinance a portion of our bridge facility pursuant to a two-year $450.0 million unsecured term loan facility. Under the proposed terms of the term loan facility, we will be subject to restrictive financial and other covenants that may restrict our business, including our ability to make acquisitions. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Plan ”. Organic growth presents risks similar to those associated with acquisitions. In particular, if we expand our operations too rapidly or otherwise beyond our ability to manage them effectively, we could encounter serious operational issues. Among other things, our ability to manage risk and ensure regulatory compliance could be impaired and result in financial loss or regulatory violations, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Failure to manage these acquisition and other growth risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we continue to make acquisitions with similar or greater frequency, these risks could be magnified and our personnel and other resources could become subject to additional strain. We do not have and cannot provide reliable historical financial information for the Refco assets we purchased. In October 2005, Refco announced that it had discovered accounting fraud at the company implicating members of its senior management. The announcement prompted Refco clients to withdraw substantial amounts of assets from their accounts, which ultimately caused several Refco entities to file for bankruptcy. In November 2005, we purchased client brokerage accounts and other assets from regulated subsidiaries of Refco for $304.9 million. While the Refco clients whose accounts we purchased withdrew many of their assets prior to our purchase, we have worked since the acquisition to re-build the asset levels in the accounts we purchased. Thus, the Refco assets have become an important part of our business. During fiscal 2007, they accounted for approximately 10.5% of our total revenues, approximately 18.8% of our revenues, net of interest and transaction-based expenses, and approximately 12.3% of our income before provision for income taxes. These assets accounted for approximately 7.8% of our total assets at the end of fiscal 2007. In addition, we have sought to attract a number 29 Table of Contents of former Refco clients who closed their accounts before the acquisition, and a substantial number of them have opened new accounts with us since the acquisition. (We did not purchase these new accounts and they are not part of the Refco assets.) Because we acquired the Refco assets primarily in asset transactions, separate historical financial statements for the specific assets we purchased do not exist, and we have no right of access to the accounting records of the Refco entities that sold these assets to us. Moreover, because the amount of assets in the client accounts that we purchased shrank dramatically between Refco’s October 2005 fraud acknowledgment and our purchase of those accounts in November 2005, we believe that any Refco financial statements relating to pre-acquisition periods would not contain meaningful information for investors. As a result, this report does not include historical financial statements for the Refco assets for periods prior to the acquisition in November 2005 or pro forma financial statements showing the impact of the acquisition on our results of operations and financial condition prior to the acquisition. Although our consolidated and combined financial statements included in this report reflect the performance of the Refco assets during the 28 months following the acquisition, this post-acquisition information does not necessarily indicate how the Refco assets performed historically prior to the acquisition. The Refco acquisition is the largest acquisition we have made to date, and the Refco assets are an important part of our business. However, because we are unable to provide financial statements reflecting the performance of these assets prior to the acquisition, it may be more difficult for you to evaluate the possible future performance of these assets and their impact on our business than would otherwise be the case. Our international operations present special challenges that we may not be able to meet and this could adversely affect our financial results. We currently conduct business internationally and plan to continue to expand our international operations. Our most significant international markets are in Europe, and expanding our business in emerging markets in the Asia/Pacific region is an important part of our growth strategy. During fiscal 2008, we generated approximately 56.1% of our revenues, net of interest and transaction-based expenses, outside North America and 12.4% outside North America and Europe. We face significant risks in doing business in international markets, particularly in developing regions. These risks include: • less developed technological infrastructure and higher costs, which could make our products and services less attractive or accessible in emerging markets; • difficulty in complying with the diverse regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions, which may be more burdensome, not clearly defined and subject to unexpected change, potentially exposing us to significant compliance costs and regulatory penalties; • inability to enforce contracts in some jurisdictions; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including reliance on newly hired local experts; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • currency and tax laws that may prevent or restrict the transfer of capital and profits among our various operations around the world; and • time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world. In addition, in order to be competitive in these local markets, or in some cases because of restrictions on the ability of foreign firms to do business locally, we may seek to operate through joint ventures with local firms as, for example, in India, where we own a 70.2% interest in MF Global Sify Securities India Private Ltd., and in Taiwan, where we currently own a 19.5% interest in Polaris MF Global Futures Co. Ltd., a publicly traded company. Doing business through joint ventures may limit our ability to control the conduct of the business and could expose us to reputational and perhaps greater operational risks. Given the intense competition from other international brokers that are also seeking to enter these fast-growing markets, we may have difficulty finding suitable local firms willing to enter into the kinds of relationships with us that we may need to gain access to these markets. Further, we and our subsidiaries are organized in a number of jurisdictions, which could have adverse tax consequences for our business. For example, withholding taxes may apply on payments of interest and dividends from our subsidiaries to us or among our subsidiaries, which could limit our operating flexibility and adversely affect our earnings, unless such withholding is reduced or eliminated by an applicable treaty among the relevant jurisdictions. In some cases there are no such treaties and in others where treaties exist, treaty eligibility may depend on the residency of the holders of our common shares. Because our common shares are now publicly traded, there can be no assurance that the necessary proportion of our common shares will be held by residents of the requisite jurisdiction, as provided by the relevant treaty. In addition, the pricing of our intercompany transactions may, from time to time, be subject to review by the relevant tax authorities. A challenge to our intercompany pricing policies could have an adverse effect on our business. 30 Table of Contents Regulatory liberalization may not continue in developing regions. We have benefited from recent regulatory liberalization in several emerging markets in developing regions, such as India, which has enabled us to increase our presence in those markets. Our ability to continue to expand our presence in the Asia/Pacific region, however, will depend to an important extent upon continued evolution of the regulatory environment in several markets, and there is no assurance that the favorable regulatory trends of recent years will continue. Moreover, we currently have only a limited presence in a number of significant Asian markets and may not be able to gain a significant presence there unless and until regulatory barriers to international firms in certain of those markets, particularly China, are modified. Consequently, we cannot assure you that our recent success in the Asia/Pacific region, such as in India, will continue or that we will be able to develop our business in emerging markets as we currently plan. Some developing regions may be unstable. Our operations in some emerging markets may be subject to the political, legal and economic risks associated with politically unstable and less economically developed regions of the world, including the risks of war, insurgency, terrorism and government appropriation. For example, we do business in countries whose currencies may be less stable than those in our primary markets. Currency instability or government imposition of currency restrictions in these countries could impede our operations in the foreign exchange markets in these countries and our ability to realize the value of collateral held in local currencies. In addition, emerging markets may be subject to exceptionally volatile and unpredictable price movements that can expose clients and brokers to sudden and significant financial loss. Trading in these markets may be less liquid, market participants may be less well capitalized and market oversight may be less extensive, all of which can increase trading or credit risk, particularly in markets for derivatives, commodities and foreign exchange. Substantial trading losses by clients or client or counterparty defaults, or the prospect of them, in turn, can drive down trading volumes—and brokerage revenues—in these markets. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could reduce our earnings. While our revenues and expenses are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, British pounds and euros, the largest percentage of our revenues is denominated in U.S. dollars while the largest percentage of our non-U.S. expenses is denominated in British pounds and euros. As a result, our earnings can be affected by changes in the U.S. dollar/British pound and U.S. dollar/euro exchange rate and to a lesser extent changes in the U.S. dollar versus Asian currencies. For example, a decline in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the value of the British pound or euro, as has recently been the case, can cause our expenses to rise faster than our revenues and thus reduce our earnings, and a rise in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the British pound or euro can have the opposite effect. Such changes have occurred and placed downward or upward pressure on our earnings in recent years. While we seek to mitigate our exposure to currency exchange rates through hedging transactions, these efforts are not always successful. Thus we realized net currency translation losses totaling $1.0 million for fiscal 2007, and net currency translation gains of $3.9 million for fiscal 2008 and $11.3 million for fiscal 2006. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Market Risk”. Adverse trends in currency exchange rates could have an adverse effect on our earnings, and while we have realized net currency translation gains in the most recent periods, we could incur significant currency translation losses again in the future. Moreover, changes in currency exchange rates from one period to the next could make period-to-period comparisons of our performance—historically as well as in the future—more difficult. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations due to seasonality and, as a result, our operating results in any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of our future or annual performance. In prior years, our business has experienced seasonal fluctuations, reflecting reduced trading activity during summer months, particularly in August. We also generally experience reduced trading activity in December due to seasonal holidays. In addition, trading in some commodity derivatives, such as energy, is affected by the supply of, and demand for, the underlying commodity, which is seasonal and may change significantly. We also may experience reduced revenues in a quarter due to a decrease in the number of business days in that quarter. As a result of these seasonal fluctuations, our operating results in any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of our future or annual performance. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL NEEDS AND FINANCIAL POSITION We must maintain substantial amounts of capital and liquidity to conduct and grow our business. Our ability to provide clearing services, which is a critical part of our business, depends heavily on our ability to maintain sufficient capital, including equity capital. In order to serve as a clearing broker, we must maintain capital at or above specified minimum levels required by various regulators throughout the world, and our failure to do so could expose us to significant penalties and sanctions as we describe under “—Risks Related to Regulation and Litigation—We are required to maintain high levels of capital, which could constrain our growth and subject us to regulatory sanctions”. In order to protect ourselves against 31 Table of Contents the risk of default by our clearing clients, we also maintain capital at levels determined in accordance with our internal risk-management guidelines, which in many cases are more stringent than the capital requirements of our regulators. Thus, as a clearing broker, we must maintain capital not only to comply with applicable laws and regulations but to manage the risks inherent in our clearing operations in accordance with guidelines that we believe to be appropriate. Moreover, the level of capital that we maintain determines the extent to which we may expand our clearing operations; if we increase our capital, our clearing operations can grow, but if our capital is reduced due to financial loss, our clearing operations may decline. The amount of capital we maintain also determines our creditworthiness and, therefore, the way we are perceived by clients and our ability to attract and effectively invest client assets. Ready access to sources of capital is also essential to our operations and to our clients’ willingness to clear their transactions through us. Clients will clear their trades—and clearinghouses and other clearing firms will deal—only with firms that are regarded as well capitalized and that maintain acceptable credit ratings from the independent rating agencies such as Fitch, Moody’s and S&P. In addition, our clearing contracts for investment products managed by the asset management division of Man Group, known as Man Investments, as well as a number of our bilateral contracts in the OTC markets, include ratings maintenance requirements. Furthermore, we rely on uncommitted lines of credit to finance our day-to-day clearing operations, and liquidity or capital issues, whether perceived or real, could prompt these lenders to reduce the amount of financing we use to conduct our clearing operations, which in turn can prompt us to reduce the amount of business we conduct and can accelerate client withdrawals. Thus, if we are unable to maintain capital at levels that the rating agencies or the market generally consider appropriate for our business, if we experience actual or perceived liquidity issues, or if for any other reason the market loses confidence in our financial condition, we will be unable to provide competitive clearing services, which are a major part of our business, and our clients will withdraw assets from their accounts, which would impair a substantial source of our interest income. For example, in March 2008, we experienced potential liquidity and capital issues following the unauthorized trading incident described elsewhere in this report and market turbulence affecting financial institutions, particularly surrounding the developments involving Bear Stearns. These issues resulted in some of our clients withdrawing assets from their accounts and prompted us to increase client margin requirements in certain parts of our business in order to reduce our capital needs. While we were able to continue to conduct our business in the ordinary course and to accommodate significantly increased levels of trading activity compared to prior years, these developments have had a negative effect on our interest income from client accounts and our revenues from some of our more capital-intensive lines of business. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Factors Affecting Our Results—Development in the Fourth Quarter of Fiscal 2008”. Our share price also declined substantially before recovering somewhat. See “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities”. In addition, any announcement by a rating agency that our credit rating is being downgraded, or even that we are being placed on “credit watch” with potential negative implications, for example, could have a serious adverse impact on our results of operations and our financial condition, as was the case following the February 2008 unauthorized trading incident when we were put on ‘negative watch’ by our rating agencies, and downgraded by two out of three of them. If we are unable to implement our capital plan promptly and as anticipated, we could face additional credit rating issues. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Plan”. Moreover, concerns about our credit rating may limit our ability to pursue acquisitions and, to the extent we pursue acquisitions that affect our credit rating, our business may suffer. To avoid a situation where our credit rating is at risk, we may need to limit the growth of our business or even to reduce our operations. We could also be compelled to raise additional capital on unfavorable terms, which could result in substantial additional interest or other expense and lower earnings and in the case of equity capital could result in substantial dilution to our shareholders. Under our current capital plan, we intend to issue new equity or equity-linked securities of $300.0 million or more that will have a dilutive effect on our outstanding common shares, and to enter into a term loan facility to refinance a portion of our bridge facility on terms that will increase our borrowing costs and subject us to more restrictive financial and other covenants. For these reasons, we must maintain continuous access to adequate and sufficiently liquid sources of capital on acceptable terms. Failure to do so could have severe consequences from a regulatory, risk-management or credit perspective. Even a less severe outcome, such as retaining the ability to obtain capital but only at a higher cost, could significantly increase our interest expense and impair our earnings. We will need to obtain additional financing in the near future. Our liquidity will be adversely affected if we are unable to do so timely and on favorable terms. In July 2007, we borrowed through one of our U.S. finance subsidiaries, MF Global Finance USA Inc., $1.4 billion in a short-term bridge facility from several financial institutions. MF Global has guaranteed the repayment of these borrowings under the bridge facility. We used the net proceeds from the bridge facility to repay our outstanding borrowings owed to Man Group and third parties, which substantially increased the portion of our indebtedness owed to unaffiliated third parties. 32 Table of Contents In January 2008, we amended the terms of the bridge facility to extend the original maturity date of June 13, 2008 with respect to $1.05 billion of the outstanding borrowings to December 12, 2008, while the remaining outstanding borrowings of $350.0 million mature on June 13, 2008. On June 13, 2008, we will borrow $350.0 million under our existing $1.5 billion liquidity facility to repay the $350.0 million that matures on that date. We intend to raise new equity, enter into a term loan facility and use other available capital to repay the balance of the bridge facility in the near term. If we do not ultimately repay the principal under the bridge facility by December 12, 2008, the lenders will be entitled to declare a default, which would make the principal and any unpaid interest on the applicable portion of the bridge facility immediately due and payable. The terms of the bridge facility are described in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources—Bridge Facility”. While we maintain a revolving liquidity facility with available committed capacity, we intend this facility to, in part, support our ongoing liquidity needs and do not regard it as a source of permanent financing for any but a limited portion of the bridge facility. Thus, if we do not obtain other financing to replace the bridge facility by December 12, 2008, our business, financial condition and share price could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, failure to make substantial progress in this regard in the near term could result in credit rating issues, which could also have a material adverse effect of this kind. Our ability to meet our obligations under the bridge facility is dependent upon the successful implementation of our capital plan, which includes the closing of our pending equity transaction with J.C. Flowers, as more fully described in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Capital Plan”. J.C. Flowers has committed to purchase up to $300.0 million of convertible preferred shares. However, J.C. Flowers’ obligation to purchase these securities is conditioned upon our obtaining debt and/or equity financing prior to the closing of that transaction that together with the proceeds of the sale of these securities will be at least $750.0 million and will have terms no less favorable than certain specified terms. The J.C. Flowers commitment is also subject to other customary conditions, including the absence of a material adverse change in our business. In addition, we may decide to raise additional equity or equity-related financing in an amount that could offset up to half of the J.C. Flowers backstop commitment and perhaps raise additional funds. Whether or not we decide to seek additional equity financing and the timing and terms of any such financing will depend on market conditions and other factors. As part of our capital plan, we also intend to pursue the withdrawal of excess regulatory capital in certain of our regulated subsidiaries, which, in many cases, is subject to regulatory approval or notice, and, as discussed above, to enter into a two-year, $450.0 million unsecured term loan facility with several banks. We may also pursue alternative financing sources, including the issuance of additional equity or equity-related securities. The closing of the term loan facility is subject to completion of mutually satisfactory definitive loan documentation and successful syndication by the banks, and any borrowings are subject to certain conditions precedent, including the absence of a material adverse change in our business or financial condition and the issuance of equity or equity-related securities with proceeds of at least $300.0 million. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources-Capital Plan”. If we are not able to close the J.C. Flowers transaction, to withdraw such excess regulatory capital maintained by our subsidiaries or to borrow under the term loan facility or through other sources, our ability to repay the bridge facility, our credit ratings and our liquidity could be seriously affected. We cannot provide assurance that our capital plan will be implemented on a timely basis, on favorable terms or at all, or that our cash flows from operations alone will be sufficient to fund our debt service obligations after the capital plan is implemented. We expect that our capital plan, if implemented as currently planned, will increase our ongoing financing costs substantially, subject us to restrictive covenants that may impede our ability to conduct our operations or expand our business, and have a dilutive effect on our outstanding common shares. Our ability to meet our debt obligations is also dependent upon our future performance, which is subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are or may be beyond our control. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations going forward, we would be required to obtain alternative financing in the future. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any such financing, that any such financing would be on acceptable terms or that we would be permitted to do so under the terms of existing financing arrangements. In the absence of such financing, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, make future acquisitions, react to adverse operating results, meet our debt service obligations, avoid further rating agency downgrades or fund required capital expenditures, could be materially and adversely affected. Our clearing operations expose us to significant client and counterparty default risks. When we clear transactions for third parties, either on an exchange or in the OTC markets, we are responsible for their performance to the other party to the transaction, which exposes us to the risk of default by them. We incurred a loss of $141.0 million in February 2008 as a result of trading in the wheat futures market by one of our former brokers in his personal account, which substantially exceeded his authorized trading limit. We, as a clearing member, were responsible for settling at the clearinghouse the shortfall resulting from the liquidation of the broker’s position. Clients may default on their payment or delivery obligations for any number of reasons, including insolvency or lack of liquidity and operational failure. They may also claim error in the execution process and refuse to perform. In these situations, clients 33 Table of Contents are generally obligated to maintain margin—cash or other liquid collateral—in amounts sufficient to secure their obligations to perform at all times while they maintain open positions. However, we may fail to monitor their positions and evaluate their risk exposures accurately, and thus fail to require that they post adequate margin initially or fail to increase their margin when necessary to keep pace with market movements that may increase their obligations from time to time. Additionally, we may extend credit to a limited number of corporate and institutional clients and within specified limits may waive or fund the margin requirements applicable to them. These actions could increase our losses from any potential default. If a default occurs, we may be unable to realize proceeds from the sale of the collateral sufficient to cover our exposure, perhaps because we are unable to act quickly enough to avoid a substantial decline in the value of the collateral or because market conditions may make it difficult to liquidate a defaulting client’s position quickly. This could be the case in times of market stress, which are precisely the times when defaults may be most likely to occur. For example, the collapse of Enron in 2001, the sharp price declines in the Indian equities markets in the spring of 2006 and, more recently, continued uncertainty surrounding subprime debt, led to substantial stress and defaults in some markets, including some of those in which we operate. While we did not incur any significant losses in those earlier situations, we did incur a significant loss in February 2008 following the liquidation of the unauthorized trading position, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to avoid losses when periods of market stress and defaults occur in the future. Among other things, our risk-management models may not accurately anticipate the impact from market stress. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings—Unauthorized Trading Incident of February 26/27, 2008”. In particular, systemic shocks could result from highly leveraged market participants, such as one or more large hedge funds, defaulting on their obligations to their brokers, who in turn could default on their obligations to counterparties. We may not be adequately prepared to handle such events, which may disrupt the financial markets and result in financial losses in the near term and reduced trading activity and profitability in the longer term. Moreover, when we act as a clearing broker, we are also responsible to our clearing clients for performance by the other party to the transaction. While the other party is often a clearinghouse (through “novation” or substitution), in some OTC trades it may be another clearing broker or even a counterparty and, unless the other side is a counterparty, we generally do not receive collateral to secure its obligations. In addition, if a clearing member defaults on its obligations to a clearinghouse in an amount larger than its margin and clearing fund deposits, the shortfall is absorbed pro rata from the deposits of other clearing members. Such a default by a clearing member of a clearinghouse of which we are also a clearing member could result in losses to us, including losses resulting from the defaults of other market participants. Thus, we are exposed to the risks of clearinghouse, clearing broker and counterparty default and, in the case of clearinghouses and clearing brokers, without collateral to offset these risks. Although we regularly review our credit exposures to specific clients to address our credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect, foresee or evaluate. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one large participant in a particular market could lead to significant liquidity problems for other participants in that or related markets, leading in turn to losses or defaults by the other participants, which may include our clients and clearing counterparties, that could expose us to significant loss. We may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by any of our clients and clearing counterparties. We also rely on the efficient functioning of settlement systems operated by third parties to conduct our operations, and any failure of these systems could result in substantial losses to us from failed trades and client or counterparty defaults. We also maintain large cash deposits and liquid investments at various banks and thus could lose substantial assets if these banks encountered financial difficulty. In addition, we deal extensively with non-clearing members of various exchanges, which have more limited financial resources than members that are authorized by exchanges to provide clearing services. Similarly, we engage in stock lending and repurchase agreements with various clients, and we could incur substantial losses in the event that these third parties fail to perform their obligations to deliver or repurchase securities, whether because of financial difficulty, inability to locate securities due to market conditions or any other reason. For an analysis of our credit risk—that is, the possibility that we may suffer losses from the failure of clients, counterparties and borrowers to meet their financial obligations to us—please refer to “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk”, which includes information about default losses we have incurred and an analysis of our credit exposure based on our internal rating categories. The amount of default losses in prior periods is not necessarily indicative of the amount of losses we may suffer in any future period; losses in future periods could be substantial. Derivative transactions are subject to unique risks, which may increase the risk of client default and thus our exposure to financial loss. Unlike cash products, derivative transactions involve a significant degree of leverage, meaning that potential gains or losses from these trades could be substantially greater than the amount invested. As a result, our clients who trade in derivative products have greater exposure to loss from movements in market prices. This, in turn, increases the risk of default by our clients and thus our potential for financial loss. In addition, derivative trades in OTC markets are often effected without the benefit of a clearinghouse, which exposes us to counterparty credit risk when we act as a clearing broker for our clients. Moreover, 34 Table of Contents derivative transactions generally involve longer settlement periods than cash trades—that is, the parties’ obligations to make payments or deliveries extend over longer periods of time and may involve multiple payments or deliveries. As a result, derivative transactions frequently involve credit and market risks for longer periods of time and are often accompanied by hedging and collateral arrangements. The longer settlement periods, as well as the related hedging and collateral arrangements, make derivative transactions and the parties’ performance of their obligations more complex and may result in mismatches or delays in the timing of cash flows due from one party to the other, thus increasing the parties’ need for cash to fund potential timing shortfalls and, ultimately, the risk of losses due to default, human error, system failure or other shortcomings in our risk-management function. Because derivative transactions can involve greater market, credit, liquidity and operational risks than cash trades, we also face a greater risk that our clients may seek to hold us responsible when they suffer financial losses on their trades, on the grounds that these trades were not suitable for them or that the risks were not fully disclosed or were misrepresented to them. In addition, clients may claim that we breached a fiduciary duty allegedly owed to them. These risks are likely to be greatest with regard to our private clients but may exist across all client groups. The relatively complex nature of derivative transactions also makes it more difficult to monitor, evaluate and manage the risks associated with these trades, and thus makes us more vulnerable to the risk of client default. While we take positions for our own account primarily to facilitate client trades on a matched-principal basis, our principal transactions nevertheless expose us to market risk. When we take positions for our own account, we do so generally in response to or in anticipation of client demand, particularly to facilitate the execution of existing client orders or in the expectation that future client orders will become available to fill the other side of the transaction. When we execute client orders in this manner we do so on a matched-principal basis, by entering into the requested trade for our own account and entering into an offsetting trade with another party relatively quickly. However, executing client orders on this basis exposes us to market risks for limited periods—that is, to the risk that market prices will change before we are able to enter into an offsetting trade that eliminates our exposure to loss from changes in market prices. Moreover, we may not always enter into offsetting trades or the offsetting trades we do execute may differ in certain respects, such as duration or other terms, and therefore may not entirely offset market risk and may leave us exposed to market risk for limited periods or to a partial extent. In addition, we take positions for our own account in order to hedge our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate risks that are inherent in the international character and financial focus of our operations. Because of the limitations and uncertainties inherent in hedging strategies, however, our exposure to market risk from these transactions is not fully offset and may not always be fully known. For example, we incurred a $51.4 million loss related to interest rate forward contracts we entered into in 2007 in connection with our bridge facility (and its anticipated refinancing), due to the movement of interest rates. Overall, we believe that our exposure to market risk is substantially lower than it would be if we took positions for our own account primarily for directional purposes rather than primarily to facilitate client trades on a matched basis as described above and to hedge and manage our corporate assets. However, for the reasons noted above, our trading practices do not eliminate market risk entirely, and we may incur trading losses from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will not incur significant losses at any time in the future, particularly in the event of severe market stress. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Market Risk”. Our risk-management methods might not be effective, which could negatively impact our business. For us to manage the significant risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, monitor and control our exposure to market, credit, operational, legal and reputational risks. While we believe that our disciplined approach to risk management, and the diversified nature of our client risk exposures, help us to manage the risks in our business, our efforts to do so may not be effective. For a description of our risk-management systems, see “Item 1. Business—Our Business—Risk Management”. Our risk-management methods focus on monitoring each client’s potential exposure at default—that is, our potential exposure to loss in the event that the client defaults—and adjusting that client’s margin requirements accordingly in an effort to ensure that its collateral is sufficient to secure the client’s performance obligations on its open positions. This function requires, among other things, that we properly record and verify hundreds of thousands of transactions and events each day, and that we continuously monitor and evaluate the size and nature of our clients’ positions and the associated risks. We must rely upon our analysis of information regarding markets, personnel, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly analyzed. Further, we rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and potential failure, as was the case in the February 2008 unauthorized trading incident, the challenges of which are exacerbated by the 24-hour-a-day, global nature of our business. Our risk-management methods are based on internally developed controls, observed historical market behavior and what we believe to be industry practices. However, our 35 Table of Contents methods may not adequately prevent future losses, particularly as they may relate to extreme market movements for which there is little or no historical precedent. Thus, our risk-management methods may prove to be ineffective because of their design, their implementation or the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information. If our risk-management efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. Additionally, we could be subject to litigation, particularly from our clients, and sanctions or fines from regulators. See also “Item 3. Legal Proceedings—Unauthorized Trading Incident of February 26/27, 2008”. RISKS RELATED TO REGULATION AND LITIGATION We operate in a heavily regulated environment that imposes significant compliance requirements and costs on us. We are extensively regulated by governmental bodies and self-regulatory organizations worldwide. Many of the regulations we are governed by are intended to protect the public, our clients and the integrity of the markets, and not necessarily our shareholders. Substantially all of our operations involving the execution and clearing of transactions in derivative and cash products are conducted through subsidiaries that are regulated by governmental bodies or self-regulatory organizations. In the United Kingdom, we are principally regulated by the Financial Services Authority. In the United States, we are principally regulated in the futures markets by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, and in the securities markets by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. We are also regulated in all regions by local regulatory authorities and the various exchanges of which we are members. For example, we are regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the Australian Securities and Investment Commission and the Investment Dealers Association of Canada, among others. These regulators and self-regulatory organizations regulate the conduct of our business in many ways and conduct regular examinations of our business to monitor our compliance with these regulations. See “Item 1. Business—Our Business—Regulation and Exchange Memberships”. Among other things, we are subject to regulation with regard to: • our sales practices, including our interaction with and solicitation of clients and our marketing activities; • the custody, control and safeguarding of our clients’ assets; • account statements, record keeping and retention; • maintaining specified minimum amounts of capital and limiting withdrawals of funds from our regulated operating subsidiaries; • making regular financial and other reports to regulators; • anti-money laundering and other reporting practices; • licensing for our operating subsidiaries and our employees; • the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates; and • supervision of our business. Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements could subject us to sanctions and adversely affect our business. Many of the laws and regulations by which we are governed grant regulators broad powers to investigate and enforce compliance with their rules and regulations and to impose penalties and other sanctions for non-compliance. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”. If a regulator finds that we have failed to comply with its rules and regulations, we may be subject to fines or other sanctions, which could adversely affect our reputation and operations. In particular, certain of the requirements that we must comply with are focused on protecting our private clients. If we fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, removal of personnel, civil litigation or other sanctions, including, in some cases, increased reporting requirements or other undertakings, revocation of our operating licenses or criminal conviction. For example, we are currently involved in investigations by the CFTC involving transactions that our clients or employees effected. Although we have established an accrual of $10.0 million to cover potential CFTC civil monetary penalties in respect of certain CFTC matters, we cannot assure you that such accrual will be sufficient for these purposes or that the CFTC will not require remedial measures. See “Item 3. Legal Proceeding”. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, we may also be subject to the loss of clients, negative publicity and litigation, particularly from our retail clients. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and regulations is dependent in large part on our internal compliance function as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. Non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues and earnings. The regulatory environment in which we or our clients operate is subject to continual change. The legislative and regulatory environment in which we operate has undergone significant changes in the recent past and there may be future regulatory changes in our industry. The financial services industry in general has been subject to increasing 36 Table of Contents regulatory oversight in recent years. The governmental bodies and self-regulatory organizations that regulate our business may propose and consider additional legislative and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations. As a result, in the future, we or our clients may become subject to new regulations that may affect the way in which we conduct our business and may make our business less profitable. For example, in the wake of significant rises in commodity prices, regulators and legislators in the United States have recently been discussing enacting changes to the regulatory environment to try to address significant volatility. Such changes may, in turn, negatively impact some of our customers and the level of their trading activity, which could have an adverse affect on our business. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations by those entities may also adversely affect our business. In addition, the regulatory enforcement environment has created uncertainty with respect to certain practices or types of transactions that in the past were considered permissible and appropriate among financial services firms, but that later have been called into question or with respect to which additional regulatory requirements have been imposed. Legal or regulatory uncertainty and additional regulatory requirements could result in a loss of business. In Europe, regulators adopted the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, known as MiFID, which took effect on November 1, 2007. This directive extended the coverage of the existing Investment Services Directive and introduced new and more extensive requirements for most firms engaged in financial services relating to the conduct of their business and internal organization. As a result of MiFID, we are required to establish policies for monitoring best execution of client trades and managing business conflicts of interest. Additionally, we have enhanced record-keeping and “know your customer” obligations. In addition, we have been subject to the new Capital Requirements Directive, since January 1, 2008, which has applied new requirements with respect to the minimum levels of regulatory capital that we must hold. As discussed above, new and changing regulatory requirements may make it more difficult or less profitable for us to operate our business. Requirements of the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control and the USA PATRIOT Act and similar laws may expose us to significant costs or penalties. As participants in the financial services industry, our business is subject to laws and regulations, including the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, or the PATRIOT Act, which requires us to know certain information about our clients and to monitor their transactions for suspicious financial activities. In addition, the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, has issued regulations requiring that we refrain from doing business, or allowing our clients to do business through us, in certain countries or with certain organizations or individuals on a prohibited list maintained by the U.S. government. The United Kingdom, the European Union and other jurisdictions maintain similar laws and regulations. The cost of complying with the regulations of the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control and the PATRIOT Act and similar laws is significant. In particular, since we operate globally, we face significant difficulties in identifying our international clients, gathering the required information about them and monitoring their account activities. U.S. and other governmental agencies are highly focused on compliance with these laws. We face risks that our policies, procedures, technology and personnel directed toward complying with the regulations of the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control and the PATRIOT Act and similar laws are insufficient and that we could be subject to significant criminal and civil penalties due to non-compliance. These penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. For a discussion of these matters, including a pending review of our anti-money laundering policies and procedures that the Financial Services Authority has required us to undertake, see “Item 1. Business—Our Business—Regulation and Exchange Memberships”. We are required to maintain high levels of capital, which could constrain our growth and subject us to regulatory sanctions. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, SEC, Financial Services Authority and other U.S. and non-U.S. regulators have stringent rules requiring that we maintain specific minimum levels of regulatory capital in our operating subsidiaries that conduct our futures and securities business. As of March 31, 2008, we were required to maintain approximately $1.5 billion minimum capital, which includes regulatory early warning requirements, in the aggregate across all jurisdictions (including $163.3 million in respect of goodwill and other intangible assets). Since our IPO, our regulatory capital requirements have increased due to our status as a stand-alone company, the adoption of certain new regulatory requirements and the overall growth in our business. Regulators require a minimum of shareholders’ equity to support the regulatory requirements, the percentage of which will vary by regulator and jurisdiction, while the balance of the regulatory requirement may be satisfied by subordinated liabilities. As at March 31, 2008, the total minimum equity required in our regulated subsidiaries was approximately $590.0 million. We, in fact, generally maintain total regulatory capital well in excess of this level in order to meet our internal risk-management guidelines and, as a result, our capital costs are substantially higher than those attributable solely to applicable regulatory or self-regulatory requirements. Regulators continue to evaluate and modify regulatory capital requirements from time to time in response to market events and to improve the stability of the international financial system. For example, since January 1, 2008 we have been subject to 37 Table of Contents the requirements of the European Union’s Capital Requirements Directive. These requirements are in the process of being agreed with the UK’s Financial Services Authority, which we expect will increase our minimum capital requirements for our UK regulated entities. Even if regulators do not change existing regulations or adopt new ones, our minimum capital requirements will generally increase in proportion to the size of the business conducted by our regulated subsidiaries as noted above. As a result, we may need to increase our regulatory capital in order to expand our operations and increase our revenues, and our inability to increase our capital on a cost-efficient basis could constrain our growth. In addition, in many cases, we are not permitted to withdraw regulatory capital (including excess regulatory capital) maintained by our subsidiaries without prior regulatory approval or notice, which could constrain our ability to allocate our capital resources most efficiently throughout our global operations. In particular, these restrictions could limit our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions on our shares and, in some cases, could adversely affect our ability to withdraw funds needed to satisfy our ongoing operating expenses, debt service and other cash needs. Regulators monitor our levels of capital closely. We are required to report the amount of regulatory capital we maintain to our regulators on a regular basis, and we must report any deficiencies or material declines promptly. While we expect that our current amount of regulatory capital will be sufficient to meet anticipated short-term increases in requirements, including the effects of the European Union’s Capital Requirements Directive, any failure to maintain the required levels of regulatory capital, or to report any capital deficiencies or material declines in capital could result in severe sanctions, including fines, censure, restrictions on our ability to conduct business and suspension or revocation of our registrations. The imposition of one or more of these sanctions could ultimately lead to our liquidation, or the liquidation of one or more of our subsidiaries. See “Item 1. Business—Our Business—Regulation and Exchange Memberships” for more information on the minimum regulatory capital requirements for our futures and securities brokerage subsidiaries. We could be harmed by employee or introducing broker misconduct or errors that are difficult to detect and deter. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms in recent years. Unlike other firms that have incurred significant, well publicized losses of this kind in recent years, when we take positions for our own account, we do so generally in response to or in anticipation of client demand and not primarily for directional purposes. We also take positions for our own account, generally when hedging our corporate exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risk and to manage our liquid corporate assets. We believe that limiting trades for our own account to matched-principal and hedging trades reduces the risk that our employees may execute trades for our account in excess of our exposure limits. Nevertheless, we are exposed to other risks relating to employee misconduct. Among other things, our employees could execute unauthorized transactions for our clients or for their own or any of our accounts, use client assets improperly or without authorization, carry out improper activities on behalf of clients or use confidential client or company information for personal or other improper purposes, as well as misrecord or otherwise try to hide improper activities from us. For example, we experienced employee misconduct in connection with the February 2008 unauthorized trading incident, which required us to incur a bad debt expense of $141.0 million. Such exposures could be heightened in the case of private clients’ accounts for which our brokers, in limited circumstances, exercise discretionary authority. In addition, employee errors, including mistakes in executing, recording or reporting transactions for clients, have in the past caused us to enter into transactions that clients disavowed and refused to settle, which could also occur in the future. Employee errors expose us to the risk of material losses until the errors are detected and the transactions are unwound or reversed. The risk of employee error or miscommunication may be greater for products that are new or have non-standardized terms. Further, such errors may be more likely to occur in the aftermath of any acquisitions during the integration of or migration from technological systems. Misconduct by employees of our clients can also expose us to claims for financial losses or regulatory proceedings when it is alleged we or our employees knew or should have known that an employee of our client was not authorized to undertake certain transactions. Dissatisfied clients can make claims against us, including claims for negligence, fraud, unauthorized trading, failure to supervise, breach of fiduciary duty, employee errors, intentional misconduct, unauthorized transactions by associated persons and failures in the processing of transactions. We could also be held responsible for improper conduct by our introducing brokers, even though we do not control their activities. Introducing brokers are futures brokers that maintain client relationships and delegate to us the responsibilities associated with trade execution, and back office operations. If an introducing broker effects trades through us that are unlawful, our regulators could hold us responsible if they were to conclude that we knew or should have known that the trades were unlawful. Moreover, a substantial number of our introducing brokers in the United States are “guaranteed” introducing brokers, meaning that we have agreed to use our capital to effectively guarantee their capital in exchange for their agreement to effect client trades exclusively through us. Under the Commodity Exchange Act, we are financially responsible for the obligations of our guaranteed introducing brokers, and we are also effectively responsible for their obligation to comply with the Commodity Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. 38 Table of Contents Employee or introducing broker misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. We believe we have an active program for monitoring and verifying that our employees and introducing brokers comply with specified procedures; however, it is not always possible to deter or detect employee or introducing broker misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Our employees or introducing brokers may also commit good faith errors that could subject us to financial claims for negligence or otherwise, as well as regulatory actions. We are subject to significant litigation risk, which could adversely affect our business. Many aspects of our business involve risks that expose us to substantial liability under U.S. federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as the rules and enforcement efforts of our regulators and self-regulatory organizations worldwide. These risks include, among others, disputes with clients and other market participants over terms of a trade, client losses resulting from system delay or failure and client claims that we or our employees executed unauthorized transactions, recommended unsuitable trades, made materially false or misleading statements or lost or diverted client assets in our custody. We may also be subject to regulatory investigation and enforcement actions seeking to impose significant fines or other sanctions, which in turn could trigger civil litigation. For example, we are and have been involved in lawsuits and arbitrations in which parties made claims for substantial damages against us. On December 3, 2007, we entered into an agreement to settle the largest of these claims relating to the Philadelphia Alternative Asset Fund (“PAAF”). We describe these proceedings and the PAAF settlement under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”. We are not being indemnified by Man Group with respect to any litigation exposures related to periods prior to or after the reorganization, separation and recapitalization (described elsewhere in this report), except to a limited extent with respect to the PAAF claim. If our existing insurance and indemnity are unavailable or insufficient, or are received in periods different from our accruals, an unfavorable judgment in some of these legal proceedings may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, following the unauthorized trading by one of our former brokers in the wheat market, which resulted in a $141.0 million loss to us following the liquidation of his position, we have been named as a defendant in securities class action litigation concerning alleged misrepresentations and omissions related to our risk management and monitoring practices and procedures. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”. An unfavorable outcome in this class action litigation may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The volume of claims and the amount of damages and fines claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial intermediaries has been increasing, particularly in the post-Enron environment. The large amounts involved in the trades we execute, together with rapid price movements in our markets, can result in potentially large damage claims in any litigation resulting from such trades. Dissatisfied clients, particularly private clients, frequently make claims against their brokers, including us, regarding the quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud, and these claims may increase as our business expands. For example, as our order flow for exchange-traded derivatives grows and we are able to execute more client orders internally without sending them to an exchange, we may become subject to an increasing number of claims of our clients that we failed to execute their orders on the most favorable terms. Litigation may also arise from disputes over the exercise of our rights with respect to client accounts and collateral. Although our client agreements generally provide that we may exercise such rights with respect to client accounts and collateral as we deem reasonably necessary for our protection, our exercise of these rights has at times led to claims by clients that we have exercised these rights improperly. Even if we prevail in any litigation or enforcement proceedings against us, we could incur significant legal expenses defending against the claims, even those without merit. Moreover, because even meritless claims can damage our reputation or raise concerns among our clients, we may feel compelled to settle claims at significant cost. An adverse resolution of any claims or proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition or operating results. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”. Our business may be adversely affected if our reputation is harmed. Our business is subject to significant reputational risks. If we fail, or appear to fail, to deal with various issues that may affect our reputation, our clients and our business and prospects could be seriously harmed. This could be the case not only in situations involving legal violations but also in those where no laws have been violated. Our reputation could be harmed in many different ways, including as a result of regulatory, governance, risk-management, technological or other failures, employee misconduct, adverse publicity, perceived or actual conflict of interests or ethical issues, money laundering, privacy concerns and sales and trading practices viewed as unfair to our clients. In recent years, there have been a number of highly publicized incidents in which financial services firms have suffered significant damage to their reputations that in turn resulted in sudden and in some cases irreparable harm to their business. 39 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO NEW PUBLIC COMPANY STATUS FOLLOWING OUR SEPARATION FROM MAN GROUP As a result of our separation from Man Group and our IPO, we have made significant changes in order to operate as an independent company. If we are unable to manage and operate our company as an independent public entity, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Prior to the separation and our IPO, we operated as a division of Man Group, which provided financial and administrative support to us. Following our IPO, Man Group was no longer obligated to provide any support to us other than the limited services it had agreed to provide pursuant to transitional services agreements. Under these agreements Man Group agreed to continue to provide us with corporate oversight and/or consultation services with respect to certain functions, such as limited tax administration, insurance management, company secretarial and global-risk management for a limited transition period. We did not, however, enter into transitional agreements with Man Group regarding other services, such as external financial reporting, external communications and investor relations or treasury services, for which we have been responsible on a stand- alone basis since our IPO in July 2007. In addition, we have managed our global risk-management activities on a stand-alone basis since that time with our own personnel using the global risk-management systems used by Man Group pursuant to a license agreement with Man Group for the software we need to operate the systems ourselves. We also provide our own external financial reporting, external communications and investor relations, treasury services and most other corporate and administrative services. Although we have retained additional personnel to assist us in these areas, we continue to evaluate our staffing needs and have hired additional personnel as necessary. Other than the limited risk management services that Man Group provides to us pursuant to a transitional services agreement, we are now responsible for providing our own capital and credit support, which we believe is our most significant challenge, as we describe above under the heading “—Risks Related to Our Capital Needs and Financial Position”. If we are unable to manage and operate our company as an independent public entity, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Moreover, the transitional services agreements with Man Group generally expire in July 2008, although some extend until July 2010. While we believe that we have developed the internal resources necessary to provide these services ourselves, we will need to obtain these services from unaffiliated third parties if our internal resources prove insufficient, which may result in increased service costs or negatively impact our operations. In addition, the tax indemnities that we received from Man Group are limited in scope and there can be no assurance that we will not incur additional tax liabilities (either as a result of the Reorganization, Separation and Recapitalization transactions or as a result of our past or future business operations) that will not be covered by those indemnities. We derive a portion of our revenues and earnings from clearing contracts with investment funds managed by a subsidiary of Man Group and may not be able to renew these contracts on acceptable terms when they expire. We have for many years provided clearing services, under various arrangements, for a number of independent investment funds managed by Man Investments Limited, which is a part of the asset management division of Man Group. We have also provided execution services for these investment funds. These brokerage services historically have been an important source of revenue for us, accounting for approximately 1.7% of our revenues, net of interest and transaction-based expenses, for fiscal 2008. These brokerage services represented approximately 9.4%, of our adjusted income before taxes for fiscal 2008. At the time of our IPO we entered into new clearing agreements with the relevant investment funds to the extent they were in existence prior to March 31, 2007 and for which clearing brokerage accounts had already been opened with us prior to that date. These agreements provide for limited exclusivity, and do not provide for clearing services relating to investment products that may be created in the future. The agreements put in place around the time of the IPO do not relate to execution services. The new clearing agreements generally provided for a term of 36 months (taking into account fixed term and notice periods) from the date of the separation, subject to cancellation by the relevant fund at any time if we fail to perform our obligations adequately or upon certain other early termination events, including a downgrade in our credit rating by a rating agency below BBB (Standard & Poor’s or the equivalent). In the case of each investment fund, renewal upon expiration will require a determination by the independent directors who oversee the investment fund that the quality of our services and the terms of our agreement are competitive and favorable. As a result, we cannot assure you that, when these new clearing agreements expire in 2010, the independent directors for the investment products will choose to renew them or, if they choose to renew, that they will renew them on terms that are acceptable to us. It is possible, therefore, that some or all of these clearing broker agreements will expire without being renewed, will be renewed on terms that are less profitable for us or will be terminated early, any of which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. In addition, our ability to generate revenue from the services we provide with respect to the investment funds managed by Man Investments Limited will depend on the level and mix of trading activity relating to these funds, factors that we do not control. Moreover, because these clearing agreements relate to activities that are subject to extensive regulation, it is possible that our ability to enforce these agreements could be impaired by applicable regulation or action by regulatory authorities. As a result, there is no assurance that we will continue to derive revenue from these arrangements to the same extent that we have in the past. 40 Table of Contents The clearing broker agreements established at the time of our IPO required us to segregate up to an aggregate amount of $800.0 million of unrealized profits from trading in the OTC markets by certain funds that are managed by Man Investments and to which we provide clearing services. However, in March 2008 we modified the agreements, which reduced the maximum amount of funding we are required to provide since the agreements do not require us to clear certain forward foreign exchange contracts, although the funds may continue to clear spot foreign exchange transactions through us. In addition, as we often do in the ordinary course of our dealings with substantial clients, we may provide margin relief for these investment funds’ initial margin requirements from time to time, in this case in the form of a credit line against initial margin requirements, in an aggregate amount up to $500.0 million at any time outstanding, but there is no obligation on our part to do so. The March 2008 amendments also eliminated the exclusivity arrangement with regard to foreign exchange and certain other transactions. Our existing and potential clients, industry vendors, recruiting candidates and investors may not recognize our new brand name, which may hurt our revenue and earnings. In 2007, we introduced our new brand name, MF Global. In connection with our IPO in July 2007, we officially changed our name from Man Financial to MF Global and began marketing our business under this new name. We entered into a trademark agreement with Man Group, which includes the right of MF Global to use “Man” and/or “Man Financial” for two years following the completion of our IPO certain domain names solely for the purpose of re-directing website users to the home page of an appropriate MF Global website. Upon expiration of this period, we will no longer be able to use the names “Man” or “Man Financial” in any way. Because we marketed our business under the name Man Financial prior to our IPO, certain existing and potential clients, industry vendors and market participants generally may not recognize our new brand, and this may make it harder for us to maintain and develop our client base, at least during an initial transition period. Our name change also may affect our ability to recruit qualified personnel. We cannot predict the impact of this change on our business. If we fail to build strong new brand recognition, our revenue and profitability may decline and our business prospects may suffer. In addition, we expect to incur additional marketing costs associated with developing our brand, which will be in excess of our historical marketing expenditures. Our historical financial results as a part of Man Group may not reflect what our results would have been—or what our future results might be—as a separate, independent entity. The combined financial information included in this report may not reflect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows had we actually been an independent company during each of the periods presented. Our financial results reflect our status as an independent public entity only from July 2007 through March 31, 2008. Because we did not operate, and Man Group did not account for us, as a separate, independent entity for the completed historical fiscal years presented prior to July 2007, our historical financial statements for those completed fiscal years are based on estimates about the portion of certain Man Group consolidated expenses that is attributable to our business. Man Group has estimated and allocated to us expenses arising from shared services and infrastructure provided by Man Group, such as employee compensation and benefits, the use of office facilities and services related to certain corporate functions. Accordingly, those estimated amounts expensed in our historical financial information may not be reflective of our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows had we been an independent company during each of the periods presented, and the historical financial information may not be a reliable indicator of what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be in the future. Our non-competition and non-solicitation agreements with Man Group will restrict our ability to engage in asset management activities and may not sufficiently restrict Man Group from competing with us. In connection with the reorganization, separation and recapitalization, we entered into a master separation agreement with Man Group that governs the principal terms of the separation of our business from Man Group. As part of this agreement, we and Man Group have agreed to non-competition and non-solicitation agreements that are intended to prevent us from competing against one another for a period of three years following the separation. The non-competition agreement, with certain exceptions, prohibits us from engaging during this period in various hedge fund asset management activities and from selling certain hedge fund products to third parties for distribution to retail investors. Similarly, with certain exceptions, Man Group is prohibited during this period from providing any third party with brokerage, execution or clearing services for exchange-listed futures or options, cash equities or bonds, OTC derivatives related to equities, fixed income and commodities (including contracts for differences and spread-trading) or foreign exchange. In addition, we and Man Group have agreed that we will not solicit any employees of the other party or its subsidiaries for a period of three years from the date of our IPO. The non-competition provisions limit the scope of our business activities, which could limit our future growth opportunities. While Man Group has agreed to refrain from competing with us, this agreement may not be effective in preventing Man Group 41 Table of Contents from competing with us in important markets, particularly following its expiration, or be broad enough to cover activities in which we may engage in the future. If the agreement limits our future growth or is not effective in preventing Man Group from competing with us, directly or indirectly, our business and results of operations may suffer. We are required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls by the end of fiscal 2009 and we cannot predict the outcome of that effort. As a U.S.-listed public company, we are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by March 31, 2009. Section 404 requires that we evaluate our internal control over financial reporting to enable management to report on, and our independent auditors to audit, the effectiveness of those controls. Our evaluation is ongoing and we cannot predict its outcome at this time. During the course of our review, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity, and we may incur significant costs to remediate those deficiencies or otherwise improve our internal controls. As a public company, we will be required to report control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” in our internal control over financial reporting. We will also be required to obtain an audit report from our independent auditors regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange. Furthermore, if we discover a material weakness or our auditor does not provide an unqualified audit report, our share price could decline and our ability to raise capital could be impaired. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS AND TECHNOLOGY If we experience systems interruptions, failures or capacity constraints, our ability to conduct our operations would be materially harmed. We are heavily dependent on the capacity and reliability of the computer and communications systems supporting our operations, whether owned and operated by us or by third parties. We receive and process a large portion of our trade orders through electronic means, including public and private communications networks. Rapid, reliable processing of orders is critical to our clients, since any delay or disruption can cause them significant financial losses. If our clients become concerned about the reliability of our systems, they could quickly take their business to our competitors. Further, any upgrades or expansions may require significant expenditures of funds and may also increase the probability that we will suffer system degradations and failures. Our computer and communications systems could slow down, malfunction or fail for a variety of reasons, including loss of power, vendor or network failure, acts of war or terrorism, human error, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, heavy stress placed on our systems during peak trading times, intentional acts of vandalism, client error or misuse, lack of proper maintenance or monitoring and similar events. For example, during the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001, we lost access to a significant portion of our communications and computer networks in New York and had to rely on our backup systems. Our systems could also fail in the event of a sudden, unpredicted surge in trading volume, such as could occur in times of severe market stress. Many of these risks are beyond our control. If events of the kind described above were to occur in the future, they could cause material disruption or failure of our computer and communications systems, with any number of severe consequences, including: • unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; • slower response times; • delays in our clients’ trade execution; • failed settlement of trades; and • incomplete or inaccurate recording, reporting or processing of trades. While we monitor system loads and performance and implement system upgrades to handle predicted increases in trading volume, we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict future volume increases or that our systems will be able to accommodate these volume increases without failure or degradation. In addition, while we have developed backup technology and disaster-recovery plans to help us mitigate some of these risks, these precautions may not be effective and, even if they work as intended, may not prevent service disruptions entirely. The same may be true for our third-party service providers. Delay, disruption or failure of our communications and computer systems may lead to financial losses, litigation or arbitration claims by our clients as well as investigations and sanctions by our regulators around the world, which require us to maintain trade execution and communications systems able to handle anticipated present and future peak trading volumes. Our reputation could also be harmed, causing us to lose existing clients and making it more difficult for us to attract new clients. Further, any resulting financial losses could be magnified by price movements of contracts involved in trades that are delayed or fail due to these events, and we may be unable to take corrective action to mitigate these losses. 42 Table of Contents Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks. The secure transmission of confidential information over public and private communications networks is a critical element of our operations. We process many thousands of client orders and accounts on a daily basis. The networks we use, including our online trading platforms and those of our third-party service providers, as well as the networks of the exchanges and other market participants with whom we interact, may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems, including the inadvertent dissemination of non-public information. Any such problems or security breaches could result in our having liability to one or more third parties. Persons who circumvent security measures or gain access to client information could wrongfully use our or our clients’ information, or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. While we rely in part on security services and software provided by outside vendors to reduce this risk, we may nonetheless be subject to serious security breaches and other disruptions. If an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our or our service providers’ security measures were to occur, or if we were to release confidential client information inadvertently, our reputation could be impaired and the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed. As a result, clients may reduce or stop their use of our services, including our online trading platforms. We or our service providers may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. The security measures we rely on may prove to be inadequate and could cause incidental system failures and delays, and thus could lower trading volumes and adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. We must regularly maintain and upgrade our computer and communications systems in response to technological change and client and regulatory demands in order to remain competitive, which is costly. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving client demand and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing technology and systems inadequate or obsolete. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to respond to demand for new services, products and technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to adapt to technological advancements and changing standards, so as to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our clients and prospective clients. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing, introducing or marketing new services, products and technologies. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent us from doing so and any new service, product or technology we develop may not be accepted by the market. Any failure on our part to anticipate or respond adequately to technological advancements, client requirements or changing industry standards, or any significant delays in our doing so, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We must also devote resources to the regular maintenance of our systems, which together with any necessary upgrades or expansions, could require significant expenditures of funds. We depend on outside vendors to provide the principal computerized systems we use to execute and clear client trades. While we have adapted these systems to meet our needs in some important respects, our ability to modify them is limited. As a result, as our markets expand and our clients’ trading and investment needs evolve, we may need to develop our own proprietary systems to supplement or even replace our existing systems. That process would require a very significant capital investment and could involve difficult transition periods when service is interrupted or fails. While we currently have no plans to develop our own systems or to replace our existing systems, we will continue to evaluate this issue in the future. If and when we decide, or are required, to upgrade or expand our systems (or to develop our own proprietary systems), we may not have the funds necessary and the changes we make or undertake to make may not be successful or accepted by our clients. Our failure to maintain our systems as necessary or to upgrade and expand them in response to evolving client demands or emerging industry standards would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on third parties for the software and systems we use to provide our brokerage services, and any interruption, degradation or cessation of service by these third parties could harm our business. We depend upon third-party vendors to provide the principal computerized systems we use to execute and clear client trades. We rely primarily on two independent electronic platforms to process trades: a platform developed by Rolfe & Nolan and used primarily in Europe and Asia, and the GMI platform developed by SunGard and used primarily in the United States. While using two platforms that operate compatibly but independently provides some redundancy in the event of a system-provider failure on one platform, it does not eliminate this risk. In addition, we may be unable to renew our licensing agreements with these system-providers for the continued use of their technology upon expiration (April 1, 2016 for Rolfe & Nolan and December 31, 2012 for SunGard). If either or both vendors fail to provide their technology and services as agreed, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be harmed. In addition, if we are unable to renew these licensing agreements when they expire, we would need to obtain alternative system technology and services from other vendors, which may prove to be less effective or reliable and more costly. Changing systems could also result in service interruptions or failures during an 43 Table of Contents initial transition period, which could subject us to loss, including loss of client business, and make us less competitive over the longer term. We could also incur substantial transition costs and have to pay higher fees over the life of the new contracts, which could negatively affect our earnings. We rely on Rolfe & Nolan, SunGard and other third parties to enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. If, in the future, enhancements or upgrades of third-party software and systems cannot be integrated with our technologies or if the technologies on which we rely fail to respond to industry standards or technological changes, we may be required to design our own proprietary systems. Software products may contain defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. The inability of third parties to supply us with software or systems on a reliable, timely basis could harm relationships with our clients and our ability to achieve our growth targets. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STATUS AS A BERMUDA COMPANY Our exemption from certain Bermuda taxes is effective until March 28, 2016, and if it is not extended our results of operations could be adversely affected. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, has given us an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or any of our operations, shares, debentures or other obligations, except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by us in respect of real property leased by us in Bermuda. This assurance by the Bermuda Minister of Finance expires on March 28, 2016. There is no guarantee that we will receive a renewed assurance from the Bermuda Minister of Finance, or that the Bermuda Government will not take action to impose taxes on our business. If the Bermuda Government imposed significant taxes on our business, our earnings could decline significantly. We are incorporated in Bermuda, and some of our directors and a significant portion of their and our assets will be located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for security holders to enforce civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, some of our directors are not (and some of our future directors may not be) citizens or residents of the United States. In addition, a significant portion of the assets of our non-U.S. directors are (and for new directors may be) located outside the United States. Consequently, it may be difficult to serve legal process within the United States upon any of our non-U.S. directors. In addition, it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Bermuda or against our non-U.S. directors in their home countries, or in countries other than the United States where we or they have assets, particularly if the judgments are based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. There is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised by our legal advisors in Bermuda that the United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. Similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in countries, other than the United States, where we or our non-U.S. directors have assets. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 