Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The current economic recession in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the state of Washington. A continuing decline in the economies of the four counties in which we operate, which we consider to be our primary market area, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, Washington has experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures and has experienced above average unemployment rates. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market area we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: ● loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; ● demand for our products and services may decline; 42 ● collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers= borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and ● the amount of our low-cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease. Our construction/land development loans are based upon estimates of costs and the value of the completed project. We make construction/land development loans to contractors and builders primarily to finance the construction of single-family homes and subdivisions. We originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. At December 31, 2009, construction/land development loans totaled $164.0 million, or 14.7% of our total loan portfolio. Land loans, which are loans made with land as security, totaled $63.5 million, or 5.7%, of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2009. Land loans include raw land and land acquisition and development loans. In additon, at December 31, 2009 we had $15.7 million of one-to-four family construction loans and $49.2 million of commercial and multifamily construction loans structured to be converted to permanent loans at the end of the construction phase. Construction/land development lending generally involves additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. In addition, because of current uncertainties in the residential real estate market, property values have become more difficult to determine than they have historically been. This type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. A further downturn in housing, or the real estate market, could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Many of our builders have more than one loan outstanding with us and also have residential mortgage loans for rental properties with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss. These loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. These loans are also generally more difficult to monitor. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. At December 31, 2009, $100.5 million of our construction/land development loans were for speculative construction loans. Approximately $80.6 million, or 49.1%, of our construction/land development loans were nonperforming at December 31, 2009. Our emphasis on commercial real estate lending may expose us to increased lending risks. Our current business strategy is focused on the expansion of commercial real estate lending. This type of lending activity, while potentially more profitable than single-family residential lending, is generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. In our primary market areas of King, Pierce, Snohomish and Kitsap counties, Washington, the housing market has slowed, with weaker demand for housing, higher inventory levels and longer marketing times. A further downturn in housing, or in the real estate market, could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss. At December 31, 2009, we had $435.5 million of commercial and multifamily real estate loans, representing 39.1% of our total loan portfolio. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property 43 securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower's project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Commercial and multifamily mortgage loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multifamily real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate and construction loans is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. As a result of these characteristics, if we foreclose on a commercial or multifamily real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Accordingly, charge-offs on commercial and multifamily real estate loans may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. Our concentration in non-owner occupied real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk. At December 31, 2009, $230.8 million, or 46.5% of our one-to-four family residential mortgage loan portfolio and 20.7% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of loans secured by non-owner occupied residential properties. Loans secured by non-owner occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner occupied properties because repayment of such loans depend primarily on the tenant's continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner's ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner occupied properties is often below that of owner occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards, which has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner occupied residential loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. At December 31, 2009, we had 56 non-owner occupied residential loan relationships, each having an outstanding balance over $500,000, with aggregate outstanding balances of $176.5 million. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner occupied residential mortgage loan. At December 31, 2009, nonperforming non-owner occupied residential loans amounted to $28.0 million. Prior to foreclosure, loans that were classified as non-owner occupied residential properties and are now classified as held as other real estate owned, amounted to $4.8 million at December 31, 2009. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At December 31, 2009, $496.7 million, or 44.5% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by first liens on one-to-four family residential loans. In addition, at December 31, 2009, our home equity lines of credit totaled $14.1 million. These types of loans are generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the Washington housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the sales prices coupled with the current recession and the associated increases in unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or lack of growth or a decrease in deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity, and damage our financial condition and business operations. 44 High loan-to-value ratios on a portion of our residential mortgage loan portfolio exposes us to greater risk of loss. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because of the decline in home values in our market area. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Reserve and the Office of Thrift Supervision have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under this guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital, or (ii) total reported loans secured by multifamily and non-farm residential properties, loans for construction, land development and other land, and loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. The particular focus of the guidance is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be at greater risk to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution). The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations. The guidance states that management should employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate loan portfolio consistent with this guidance, bank regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures consistent with their interpretation of the guidance that may result in additional costs to us. Our provision for loan losses has increased substantially and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2009 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $51.3 million, compared to $9.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $35.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $432,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008. We are experiencing increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses. Slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market has been the primary cause of the increase in delinquencies and foreclosures for residential construction/land development loans, which represent 54.2% of our nonperforming assets at December 31, 2009. In addition, slowing housing sales have been a contributing factor to the increase in nonperforming loans as well as the increase in delinquencies. At December 31, 2009 our total nonperforming assets had increased to $132.5 million compared to $58.6 million at December 31, 2008. Further, construction/land development and commercial real estate loans have a higher risk of loss than residential mortgage loans. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, until general economic conditions improve, we expect that we will continue to experience significantly higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we could be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 45 We may have continuing losses. We reported net income of $4.7 million and a net loss of $4.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, as compared to a net loss of $40.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. This loss primarily resulted from our high level of nonperforming assets and the resultant increased provision for loan losses. We may continue to suffer further losses. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: ● the cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; ● changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; ● the duration of the loan; ● the credit history of a particular borrower; and ● changes in economic and industry conditions. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: ● our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience and certain macroeconomic factors based on management's expectations of future events; ● and our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of nonperforming loans and their underlying collateral. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was 3.07% of loans net of undisbursed funds and 27.37% of nonperforming loans net of undisbursed funds at December 31, 2009. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our capital. 46 If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as OREO, and at certain other times during the assets' holding period. Our net book value ("NBV") in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset's NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our OREO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by such regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate and/or sell loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets, which would negatively impact shareholders' equity, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans.Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock may become impaired. At December 31, 2009, we owned $7.4 million of stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle. As a condition of membership at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of Federal Home Loan Bank stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the Federal Home Loan Bank. Our Federal Home Loan Bank stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and it is subject to recoverability testing per Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The Federal Home Loan Bank recently announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the "FHFA"), its primary regulator, as of December 31, 2008, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, the Federal Home Loan Bank has not paid a dividend since the fourth quarter of 2008. The Federal Home Loan Bank has communicated that it believes the calculation of risk-based capital under the current rules of the FHFA significantly overstates the market risk of the Federal Home Loan Bank's private-label mortgage-backed securities in the current market environment and that it has enough capital to cover the risks reflected in its balance sheet. As a result, we have not recorded an other-than-temporary impairment on our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock. However, continued deterioration in the Federal Home Loan Bank's financial position may result in impairment in the value of those securities. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the Federal Home Loan Bank as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment. 47 Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessments will hurt our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment rate was increased by seven basis points (seven cents for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, initial base assessment rates were changed to range from 12 basis points to 45 basis points across all risk categories with possible adjustments to these rates based on certain debt-related components. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to five basis points on each institution's assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution's assessment base. Our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation deposit insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $2.3 million, including the special assessment of $554,000 recorded in June 2009 and paid on September 30, 2009. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation may impose additional emergency special assessments, of up to five basis points per quarter on each institution's assets minus Tier 1 capital if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. In September 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation issued a rule that requires financial institutions to prepay its estimated quarterly risk-based assessment for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. This assessment would not immediately impact our earnings as the payment would be expensed over time. Continued weak or worsening credit availability could limit our ability to replace deposits and fund loan demand, which could adversely affect our earnings and capital levels. Continued weak or worsening credit availability and the inability to obtain adequate funding to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may negatively affect asset growth and, consequently, our earnings capability and capital levels. In addition to any deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, we rely from time to time on advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle, borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank and other funding sources to fund loans. If the economy does not improve or continues to deteriorate, these additional funding sources could be negatively affected, which could limit the funds available to us. Our liquidity position could be significantly constrained if we are unable to access funds from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle, the Federal Reserve Bank or other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. In addition, recent changes in the collateralization requirements and other provisions of the Washington public funds deposit programs have changed the economic benefit associated with accepting public funds deposits, which may affect our need to utilize alternative sources of liquidity. At December 31, 2009 we had $88.5 million in public funds. 48 Our single branch location limits our ability to attract retail deposits and as a result a large portion of our deposits are certificates of deposit, including "Jumbo" certificates which may not be as stable as other types of deposits. Our single branch location limits our ability to compete with larger institutions for noninterest bearing deposits as these institutions have a larger branch network providing greater convenience to customers. As a result, we are dependent on more interest rate sensitive deposits. At December 31, 2009, $713.7 million, or 76.0%, of our total deposits were certificates of deposit, and of that amount $514.9 million, or 54.8%, of the certificates of deposit were "jumbo" certificates of $100,000 or more (of which $87.8 million or 9.4% of our total deposits were public funds). In addition deposit inflows are significantly influenced by general interest rates. Our money market accounts and jumbo certificates of deposit and the retention of these deposits are particularly sensitive to general interest rates, making these deposits traditionally a more volatile source of funding than other deposit accounts. In order to retain our money market accounts and jumbo certificates of deposit, we may have to pay a higher rate, resulting in an increase in our cost of funds. In a rising rate environment, we may be unwilling or unable to pay a competitive rate because of the resulting compression in our interest rate spread. To the extent that such deposits do not remain with us, they may need to be replaced with borrowings or other deposits which could increase our cost of funds and negatively impact our interest rate spread and our financial condition. The loss of our current Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer may hurt First Financial Northwest=s and First Savings Bank=s operations because it may be difficult to hire qualified replacements. The loss of our Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Victor Karpiak, could have a material adverse impact on the operations of First Savings Bank since he has been instrumental in managing the business affairs of First Savings Bank. Other officers within First Savings Bank do not have the experience and expertise to readily replace Mr. Karpiak. If First Savings Bank were to lose Mr. Karpiak, the board of directors would most likely have to search outside of First Savings Bank for a qualified, permanent replacement. This search may be prolonged and we cannot assure you that First Savings Bank would be able to locate and hire a qualified replacement without interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our operations. We are subject to various regulatory requirements and may be subject to future additional regulatory restrictions and enforcement actions. Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, the Washington State Department of Financial Institutions and the FDIC as insurer of First Savings Bank's deposits, have authority to compel or restrict certain actions if First Savings Banks' capital should fall below adequate capital standards as a result of operating losses, or if its regulators otherwise determine that it has insufficient capital or is otherwise operating in an unsafe and unsound manner. In addition, the Office of Thrift Supervision, as the regulator of First Financial Northwest, may also compel or restrict certain of its actions. Among other matters, the corrective actions may include, but are not limited to, requiring First Financial Northwest or First Savings Bank to enter into informal or formal enforcement orders, including memoranda of understanding, written agreements, supervisory letters, commitment letters, and consent or cease and desist orders to take corrective action and refrain from unsafe and unsound practices; removing officers and directors and assessing civil monetary penalties; terminating the Bank's FDIC insurance; and taking possession of and closing and liquidating First Savings Bank. In light of the current challenging operating environment, along with our elevated level of nonperforming assets, delinquencies, and adversely classified assets and our recent operating results we are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny as well as increased FDIC insurance premiums as a result of the potential risk of loss in our loan portfolio. First Financial Northwest and First Savings Bank may become subject to one of the corrective actions described above, which may include a memorandum of understanding or a consent or cease and desist order. Such a corrective action could require us to limit our lending activities and reduce our levels of construction and land development loans and classified or nonperforming assets within specified timeframes which might not necessarily result in maximizing the price which might otherwise be received for the underlying properties. If such restrictions were also imposed upon other institutions which operate in First Savings Bank's market area, multiple institutions 49 disposing of properties at the same time could further diminish the potential proceeds received from the sale of these properties. In addition, a corrective action could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time, increase our capital or enter into a strategic transaction, whether by merger or otherwise, with a third party. In addition, the FDIC has the power to deem First Savings Bank to be only adequately capitalized even though its capital ratios meet the well capitalized standard. In such event, First Savings Bank would be prohibited from using brokered deposits, even though they have not been a source of funds for us in recent years, and rates on deposits would be limited to market rates determined by the FDIC, potentially adversely affecting our liquidity. The terms of any such corrective action could have a material negative effect on our business, our financial condition and the value of our common stock. First Savings Bank must obtain prior regulatory approval before adding any new director or senior executive officer or changing the responsibilities of any current senior executive officer. First Savings Bank also may not pay pursuant to or enter into certain severance and other forms of compensation agreements without regulatory approval. Based on communications with the OTS, First Financial Northwest anticipates entering into an informal agreement requiring First Financial Northwest and First Savings Bank to provide notice to and obtain written non-objection from the OTS prior to First Financial Northwest or First Savings Bank declaring a dividend or repurchasing any capital stock or making any other capital distributions. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations, including changes that may restrict our ability to foreclose on single-family home loans and offer overdraft protection. We are subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Washington State Department of Financial Institutions. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, and not holders of our common stock. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. Congress, the State legislature and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, restrict mergers and acquisitions, investments, access to capital, the location of banking offices, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. New legislation proposed by Congress may give bankruptcy courts the power to reduce the increasing number of home foreclosures by giving bankruptcy judges the authority to restructure mortgages and reduce a borrower's payments. Property owners would be allowed to keep their property while working out their debts. Other similar bills placing additional temporary moratoriums on foreclosure sales or otherwise modifying foreclosure procedures to the benefit of borrowers and the detriment of lenders may be enacted by either Congress or the State of Washington in the future. These laws may further restrict our collection efforts on our one-to-four family loans. Additional legislation proposed or under consideration in Congress would give current debit and credit card holders the chance to opt out of an overdraft protection program and limit overdraft fees which could result in additional operational costs and a reduction in our noninterest income. Further, our regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their 50 supervisory and enforcement duties. In this regard, banking regulators are considering additional regulations governing compensation which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. On June 17, 2009, the Obama Administration published a comprehensive regulatory reform plan that is intended to modernize and protect the integrity of the United States financial system. The President's plan contains several elements that would have a direct effect on First Financial Northwest and First Savings Bank Northwest. Under the reform plan, the Office of Thrift Supervision would be eliminated and all companies that control an insured depository institution must register as a bank holding company. Draft legislation would require First Financial Northwest to register as a bank holding company. Registration as a bank holding company would represent a significant change, as there currently exist significant differences between savings and loan holding company and bank holding company supervision and regulation. For example, the Federal Reserve imposes leverage and risk-based capital requirements on bank holding companies whereas the Office of Thrift Supervision does not impose any capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The reform plan also proposes the creation of a new federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency that would be dedicated to protecting consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this agency could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, legislation stemming from the reform plan could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, and compensation practices. If implemented, the foregoing regulatory reforms may have a material impact on our operations. However, because the legislation needed to implement the President's reform plan continues to be debated in Congress, and because the final legislation may differ significantly from the legislation proposed by the Administration, we cannot determine the specific impact of regulatory reform at this time. State Taxes May Increase Washington State currently has a fiscal deficit of nearly $3 billion and as a result, state taxes may increase. The State Legislature is considering a variety of tax measures to balance the State budget which, if passed into law, may increase our State tax expense. We will incur additional expenses managing real estate acquired through foreclosure. We have foreclosed and continue to foreclose on loans in our portfolio. These foreclosures may result in charge-offs and other expenses for items such as: property management and legal which will have a negative affect on future earnings. Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our assets as of December 31, 2009 include a deferred tax asset and we may not be able to realize the full amount of such asset. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2009, the net deferred tax asset was $12.1 million compared to $9.3 million at December 31, 2008. The increase in the net deferred tax asset resulted mainly from loan loss provisions and other than temporary impairment losses on securities for financial reporting purposes, neither of which are currently deductible for federal income tax reporting purposes. The deferred tax asset balance at December 31, 2009 attributable to our loan loss reserves and other than temporary impairment losses was $11.5 million and $627,000, respectively. 51 We regularly review our net deferred tax assets for recoverability based on history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences. Realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carryback years, as well as future taxable income. We believe the recorded net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2009, including the capital loss carryforward, is fully realizable; however, if we determine that we will be unable to realize all or part of the net deferred tax asset, we would adjust this net deferred tax asset, which would negatively impact our earnings or increase our net loss. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. First Financial Northwest has not received any written comments from the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended that are unresolved. Item 