Item 1A. Risk Factors.An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report and our other filings with the SEC. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, capital levels, cash flows, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. The market price of our common stock could decline significantly due to any of these identified or other risks and you could lose some or all of your investment. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the national economy and in the economies in our market areas.Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the state of Washington. A continuing decline in the economies of the four counties in which we operate, which we consider to be our primary market area, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, Washington has experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures and has experienced above average unemployment rates.While real estate values and unemployment rates have recently improved, a prolonged slow economic recovery or a deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations:•loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;•we may increase our allowance for loan losses;•demand for our products and services may decline resulting in a decrease in our total loans or assets;•collateral for loans, especially real estate, may decline further in value, exposing us to increased risk of loss on existing loans, reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; •the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and•the amount of our low-cost or noninterest-bearing deposits may decrease and the composition of our deposits may be adversely affected.A decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values, our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected.A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.The ongoing debate in Congress regarding the national debt ceiling and federal budget deficit, and concerns over the United States' credit rating (which was downgraded by Standard & Poor's), the European sovereign debt crisis, the overall weakness in the economy and continued high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition.39Furthermore, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of U.S. Treasury and mortgage-backed securities. If the FRB Board increases the rate it is curtailing purchases of U.S. Treasury and mortgage-backed securities or the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise that may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans and could negatively affect our financial performance.Our construction/land development loans are based upon estimates of costs and the value of the completed project.We make construction/land development loans to contractors and builders primarily to finance the construction of single-family homes and subdivisions. We originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. At December 31, 2013, construction/land development loans totaled $30.7 million, or 4.5% of our total loan portfolio of which $12.5 million were multifamily construction loans, $6.7 million were commercial construction loans and $4.0 million were one-to-four family construction loans. Land loans, which are loans made with land as security, totaled $7.5 million, or 1.1% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2013. Land loans include raw land and land acquisition and development loans. In addition, at December 31, 2013, we had $32.3 million of multifamily and commercial real estate "rollover" construction loans included in our multifamily and commercial real estate loan portfolio because these loans are structured to convert to permanent financing when construction is complete.Construction/land development lending generally involves additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project that is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. In addition, because of current uncertainties in the residential real estate market, property values have become more difficult to determine than they have historically been. This type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. A downturn in housing, or the real estate market, could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Many of our builders have more than one loan outstanding with us and also have residential mortgage loans for rental properties with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss.These loans often involve the disbursement of funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. These loans are also generally more difficult to monitor. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. Loans on land under development or held for future construction also pose additional risk because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral. These risks can be significantly impacted by supply and demand conditions. As a result, this type of lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to independently repay principal and interest. At December 31, 2013, $23.2 million of our construction/land development loans were for speculative construction loans and $223,000, or 0.7%, of our construction/land development loans were classified as nonperforming.Our level of commercial and multifamily real estate loans may expose us to increased lending risks.While commercial and multifamily real estate lending may potentially be more profitable than single-family residential lending, it is generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. At December 31, 2013, we had $248.8 million of commercial real estate loans, representing 36.1% of our total loan portfolio and $118.5 million of multifamily loans, representing 17.2% of our total loan portfolio. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans and some of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential loan. Repayment on these loans is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service that may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Commercial and multifamily loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by one-to-four family residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans 40typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multifamily real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment that may increase the risk of default or non-payment. Further, many of our commercial and multifamily borrowers have more than one loan with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss.A secondary market for most types of commercial and multifamily real estate loans is not readily available, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. As a result of these characteristics, if we foreclose on a commercial or multifamily real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one-to-four family residential loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Accordingly, charge-offs on commercial real estate loans may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios.Our non-owner occupied real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk.At December 31, 2013, $121.9 million, or 43.4% of our one-to-four family residential mortgage loan portfolio and 18.4% of our total loan portfolio, net of LIP, consisted of loans secured by non-owner occupied residential properties. At December 31, 2013, nonperforming, non-owner occupied one-to-four family residential loans amounted to $817,000. Prior to foreclosure, loans that were classified as non-owner occupied residential properties and are now classified as OREO, amounted to $843,000 at December 31, 2013. Loans secured by non-owner occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner occupied properties because repayment of such loans depend primarily on the tenant’s continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner’s ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner occupied properties is often below that of owner occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards that has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner occupied residential loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. At December 31, 2013, we had 47 non-owner occupied residential loan relationships, each having an outstanding balance over $500,000, with aggregate outstanding balances of $93.9 million. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner occupied residential mortgage loan.Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.At December 31, 2013, $280.7 million, or 40.7% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by first liens on one-to-four family residential loans. In addition, at December 31, 2013, our home equity lines of credit totaled $6.8 million. These types of loans are generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the Washington housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans.A return to recessionary conditions or declines in the volume of real estate sales and/or the sales prices coupled with the still elevated unemployment rates may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, and a decline in demand for our products and services. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity and damage our financial condition and business operations.High loan-to-value ratios on a portion of our residential mortgage loan portfolio exposes us to greater risk of loss.Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because of the decline in home values in our market area. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses.If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future that could adversely affect our results of operations.For the year ended December 31, 2013, we had a credit to our provision for loan losses of $100,000 due to improved quality of our loans as well as net recoveries of $552,000. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $3.1 million. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. We continue to experience loan delinquencies and credit losses. Slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market has been the 41primary cause of foreclosures for residential construction/land development loans that represent 1.4% of our nonperforming assets at December 31, 2013 compared with 18.4% at December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2013 our total nonperforming assets had decreased to $15.5 million compared to $40.1 million at December 31, 2012. Further, construction/land development and commercial real estate loans have a higher risk of loss than residential loans.While conditions in the housing and real estate markets and economic conditions in our market areas have recently improved, if slow economic conditions persist or real estate values and sales deteriorate, we may experience higher delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we could be required to increase our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows are subject to interest rate risk.Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but these changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and (iii) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.A prolonged period of exceptionally low market interest rates, such as we are currently experiencing, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of substantially reduced asset yields. Further, a portion of our adjustable-rate loans have interest rate floors below which the loan's contractual interest rate may not adjust. Approximately 26% of our total loans were comprised of adjustable-rate loans at December 31, 2013. At that date, $87.4 million, or 48%, of these loans with an average interest rate of 4.5% were at their floor interest rate. The inability of our loans to adjust downward can contribute to increased income in periods of declining interest rates, although this result is subject to the risks that borrowers may refinance these loans during periods of declining interest rates. Also, when loans are at their floors, there is a further risk that our interest income may not increase as rapidly as our cost of funds during periods of increasing interest rates and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively as our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet or projected operating results. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed.Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.During the last five years it has been the policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of U.S. Treasury and mortgage-backed securities. As a result, yields on securities we have purchased, and market rates on the loans we have originated, have been at levels lower than were available prior to 2008. Consequently, the average yield on our interest-earning assets has decreased during this low interest rate environment. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, and has contributed to increases in net interest income in the short term. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The FRB has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the near future. Accordingly, our net interest income may continue to decrease that may have an adverse effect on our profitability. For information with respect to changes in interest rates, see “– Our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows are subject to interest rate risk.”Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.Lending is a primary part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things:•the cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;•in the case of a collateralized loan, changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral;•the duration of the loan;42•the credit history of a particular borrower; and•changes in economic and industry conditions.We maintain an ALLL that is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, and we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:•our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience, certain macroeconomic factors and management’s expectations of future events; and•our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of nonperforming loans and their underlying collateral.The determination of the appropriate level of the ALLL inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the ALLL, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the ALLL may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for increases in our provision for loan losses. Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may increase our loan charge offs and/or may otherwise require an increase in the ALLL.Our ALLL was 1.91% of loans net of LIP and 325.26% of nonperforming loans net of LIP at December 31, 2013. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our ALLL and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and capital. If our investments in other real estate owned are not properly valued and managed our earnings could be reduced.We have foreclosed and continue to foreclose on loans in our portfolio. We use current property valuations in the form of appraisals when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as OREO. Subsequently, an evaluation is performed by our experienced lending staff during the asset's holding period. Our net book value in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset's net book value over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in OREO may not be sufficient to recover our net book value in such assets, resulting in the need for additional write-downs. In addition, we may incur significant property management and legal expenses related to our OREO. Additional material charge-offs or expenses relating to our OREO could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.In addition, bank regulators periodically review our OREO and may require us to recognize additional write-downs. Any increase in our write-downs, as required by such regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and capital.We may incur losses on our securities portfolio as a result of changes in interest rates.Our securities portfolio may be affected by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings. Fluctuations in market value may be caused by changes in market interest rates, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand. Our securities portfolio is evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment. If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur. Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. We increase or decrease our shareholders' equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value will not result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, and would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels.If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle becomes impaired, our earnings and shareholders' equity could decrease.43At December 31, 2013, we owned $7.0 million in FHLB stock. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. This requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and it is subject to recoverability testing per accounting guidance for the impairment of long lived assets. We monitor on a recurring basis the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment.The Seattle FHLB announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the FHFA), its primary regulator, as of December 31, 2008, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. The FHLB of Seattle announced September 7, 2012 that the FHFA now considers the FHLB of Seattle to be adequately capitalized. Dividends on, or repurchases of, the FHLB of Seattle stock continue to require consent of the FHFA. The FHFA subsequently approved the repurchase of portions of FHLB of Seattle stock, at par value and during 2013 and 2012 repurchased 2,633 shares and 1,320 shares, respectively, from First Savings Bank. During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, First Savings Bank did not receive any dividend income on FHLB stock. The FHLB announced in July 2013 that, based on its second quarter 2013 financial results, their Board of Directors had declared a $0.025 per share cash dividend. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the First Savings received $3,600 in dividends on FHLB stock. Based on the above, we have determined there is not any impairment on the FHLB stock investment as of December 31, 2013. Deterioration in the FHLB’s financial position may, however, result in future impairment in the value of those securities. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment.Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.Liquidity is essential to our business and the inability to obtain adequate funding may negatively affect growth and, consequently, our earnings capability and capital levels. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans or investment securities and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Washington markets in which our loans are concentrated, negative operating results, or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry and the continued uncertainty in credit markets. In particular, our liquidity position could be significantly constrained if we are unable to access funds from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco or other wholesale funding sources or if adequate financing is not available at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected. Additionally, collateralized public funds are bank deposits of state and local municipalities. These deposits are required to be secured by certain investment grade securities to ensure repayment that on the one hand tends to reduce our contingent liquidity risk by making these funds somewhat less credit sensitive, but on the other hand reduces standby liquidity by restricting the potential liquidity of the pledged collateral. Although these funds historically have been a relatively stable source of funds for us, availability depends on the individual municipality's fiscal policies and cash flow needs. In addition, changes in recent years in the collateralization requirements and other provisions of the Washington public funds deposit programs have changed the economic benefit associated with accepting public funds deposits. At December 31, 2013 we had $10.8 million in public funds.Our single branch location limits our ability to attract retail deposits and as a result a large portion of our deposits are certificates of deposit, including “Jumbo” certificates that may not be as stable as other types of deposits.Our single branch location limits our ability to compete with larger institutions for noninterest bearing deposits as these institutions have a larger branch network providing greater convenience to customers. As a result, we are dependent on more interest rate sensitive deposits. At December 31, 2013, $410.4 million, or 67.1%, of our total deposits were certificates of deposit and, of that amount, $289.1 million, or 70.4%, were “jumbo” certificates of $100,000 or more ($10.8 million, or 1.8% of our total deposits were public funds). In addition, deposit inflows are significantly influenced by general interest rates. Our money market accounts and jumbo certificates of deposit and the retention of these deposits are particularly sensitive to general interest rates, making these deposits traditionally a more volatile source of funding than other deposit accounts. In order to retain our money market accounts and jumbo certificates of deposit, we may have to pay a higher rate, resulting in an increase in our cost of funds. In a rising rate environment, we may be unwilling or unable to pay a competitive rate because of the resulting compression in our interest rate spread. To the extent that such deposits do not remain with us, they may need to be replaced with borrowings or other deposits that could increase our cost of funds and negatively impact our interest rate spread and financial condition.44We may be required to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, or it may only be available on unacceptable terms, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations and pursue our growth strategy could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to raise additional capital when required by our bank regulators, we may be subject to adverse regulatory action.Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations, increase our costs of operations and decrease our efficiency. First Savings Bank is subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the FDIC and the DFI, and First Financial Northwest is subject to examination and supervision by the FRB. The FDIC, DFI and the FRB govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on an institution's operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed.Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and has affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting and implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years.The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB) with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws and regulations of the CFPB by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. We do not currently have assets in excess of $10 billion, but we may at some point in the future. In January of 2013, the CFPB issued several final regulations and changes to certain consumer protections under existing laws. These final rules, most of the provisions of which (including the qualified mortgage rule) become effective January 10, 2014, generally prohibit creditors from extending mortgage loans without regard for the consumer’s ability-to-repay and add restrictions and requirements to mortgage origination and servicing practices. In addition, these rules limit prepayment penalties and require the creditor to retain evidence of compliance with the ability-to-repay requirement for three years. Compliance with these rules will likely increase our overall regulatory compliance costs and may require changes to our underwriting practices with respect to mortgage loans. Moreover, these rules may adversely affect the volume of mortgage loans that we underwrite and may subject us to increased potential liabilities related to such residential loan origination activities. The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk-based capital requirements for savings and loan holding companies and bank holding companies that are no less stringent than those applicable to banks that will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company level and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in First Savings Bank, and will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions, and credit unions to $250 thousand per depositor for each account ownership category, retroactive to January 1, 2008. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the DIF, from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets. 45Effective December 10, 2013, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, federal banking and securities regulators issued final rules to implement Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act (the “Volcker Rule”). Generally, subject to a transition period and certain exceptions, the Volcker Rule restricts insured depository institutions and their affiliated companies from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, investing in funds with collateral comprised of less than 100% loans that are not registered with the SEC and from engaging in hedging activities that do not hedge a specific identified risk. After the transition period, the Volcker Rule prohibitions and restrictions will apply to banking entities unless an exception applies. We are analyzing the impact of the Volcker Rule on our investment portfolio and we anticipate changes to our investment strategies that could negatively affect our earnings. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business will not be known until all of the regulations implementing the statute are adopted and implemented. As a result, we cannot at this time predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act will impact our business, operations or financial condition. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations may require us to make changes to our business and operations and will likely result in additional costs and divert management’s time from other business activities, any of which may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Any other additional changes in our regulation and oversight, whether in the form of new laws, rules or regulations, could likewise make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules is uncertain.On July 9, 2013, the FDIC and the other federal bank regulatory agencies issued a final rule that will revise their risk-based capital requirements and the method for calculating risk-weighted assets to make them consistent with agreements that were reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Final Rule applies to all depository institutions, top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $500 million or more and top-tier savings and loan holding companies. Among other things, the rule establishes a new common equity Tier 1 minimum capital requirement (4.5% of risk-weighted assets), increases the minimum Tier 1 capital to risk-based assets requirement (from 4.0% to 6.0% of risk-weighted assets) and assigns a higher risk weight (150%) to exposures that are more than 90 days past due or are on nonaccrual status and to certain commercial real estate facilities that finance the acquisition, development or construction of real property. The Final Rule also requires unrealized gains and losses on certain “available-for-sale” securities holdings to be included for purposes of calculating regulatory capital requirements unless a one-time opt-in or opt-out is exercised. The Rule limits a banking organization’s capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a “capital conservation buffer” consisting of 2.5% of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets in addition to the amount necessary to meet its minimum risk-based capital requirements. The Final Rule becomes effective for First Financial Northwest on January 1, 2015. The capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning January 1, 2016 and ending January 1, 2019, when the full capital conservation buffer requirement will be effective. The application of these more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy, and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. Specifically, beginning in 2016, First Savings Bank’s ability to pay dividends will be limited if does not have the capital conservation buffer required by the new capital rules that may limit our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. See “Regulation and Supervision-Federal Banking Regulation-New Capital Rule.”Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions. During the last year, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. While we have developed 46policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit our stockholders. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution's ALLL. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading “Item 1. Business – How We Are Regulated.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time.Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, restrict mergers and acquisitions, investments, access to capital, the location of banking offices and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. For example, legislative proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. If proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, were to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses on our loans, or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Our failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputational damage and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur.From time to time entities that set accounting standards change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of financial statements. These changes can be both difficult to predict and involve judgment and discretion in their interpretation by us, and our independent accounting firms. The changes implemented by the entities in setting standards themselves could materially impact, potentially even retroactively, how we report our financial condition and results of our operations as could our interpretation of those changes.Our litigation related costs might increase.The Bank, from time to time, becomes subject to legal and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of the Bank’s business, including as a result of the Bank’s loan workout and other activities. There could be substantial cost and management diversion in such litigation and proceedings, and any adverse determination could have a materially adverse effect on our business, brand or image, or our financial condition and results of our operations.Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities.In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology. Our security measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of a cyber attack. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger and virtually all other aspects of our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and cyber attacks that could have a security impact. If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our or our customers' confidential and other information 47processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. We could also suffer significant reputational damage.Security breaches in our internet banking activities could further expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures, and could result in significant legal liability and significant damage to our reputation and our business.Our security measures may not protect us from systems failures or interruptions. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, we outsource certain aspects of our data processing and other operational functions to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Further, the occurrence of any systems failure or interruption could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to legal liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.If we are unable to attract and retain skilled employees, our business could be adversely impacted. We may be subject to increased turnover in our employee base or the inability to fill open headcount requisitions due to competition, concerns about our operational performance or other factors. In addition, we may rely on the performance of employees whose skill sets are not sufficiently developed to fulfill their expected job responsibilities. Either of these situations could impair or delay our ability to realize operational and strategic objectives and cause increased expenses and lost sales opportunities. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects.Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the community banking industry where the Banks conduct their business. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our President, and certain other employees. In addition, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the services of our directors, many of whom are at or nearing retirement age, and we may not be able to identify and attract suitable candidates to replace such directors.We participate in a multiple employer defined benefit pension plan for the benefit of our employees. If we were to withdraw from this plan, or if Pentegra, the multiple employer defined benefit pension plan sponsor, requires us to make additional contributions, we could incur a substantial expense in connection with the withdrawal or the request for additional contributions. We participate in the Pentegra Defined Benefit Plan for Financial Institutions, a multiple employer pension plan for the benefit of our employees. Effective March 31, 2013, we did not allow additional employees to participate in this plan. On March 31, 2013, we froze the future accrual of benefits under this plan with respect to those participating employees. In connection with our decision to freeze our benefit accruals under the plan, and since then, we considered withdrawing from the plan. Based upon the value of the plan’s assets at December 31, 2013, if we had chosen to withdraw from the plan as of that date, we would have incurred an additional expense of up to approximately $6.1 million.48The actual expense that would be incurred in connection with a withdrawal from the plan is primarily dependent upon the timing of the withdrawal, the total value of the plan’s assets at the time of withdrawal, general market interest rates at that time, expenses imposed on withdrawal, and other conditions imposed by Pentegra as set forth in the plan. If we choose to withdraw from the plan in the future, we could incur a substantial expense in connection with the withdrawal.Even if we do not withdraw from the plan Pentegra, as sponsor of the plan, may request that we make an additional contribution to the plan, in addition to contributions that we are regularly required to make, or obtain a letter of credit in favor of the plan, if our financial condition worsens to the point that it triggers certain criteria set out in the plan. If we fail to make the contribution or obtain the requested letter of credit, then we may be forced to withdraw from the plan and establish a separate, single employer defined benefit plan that we anticipate would be underfunded to a similar extent as under the multiple employer plan.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable. First Financial Northwest has not received any written comments from the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended that are unresolved.