ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face risks in operating our business, including risks that may prevent us from achieving our business objectives or that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We present these risks according to the following categories: Risks related to Our Industry and Business; Risks related to Our Capital Needs and Financial Position; Risks related to Regulation and Litigation; Risks related to Our Separation from Man Group; Risks related to Our Operations and Technology; and Risks related to Our Status as a Bermuda Company. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY AND BUSINESS Conditions in the financial services industry and the securities markets, especially decreases in trading volumes, interest rates and market liquidity, may hurt our business. We generate revenues principally from transaction execution and clearing fees, markups from principal transactions and net interest income earned on cash balances in our clients’ accounts as well as interest related to our fixed income and principal transaction activities. These revenue sources are dependent on a combination of factors including the level of trading volumes, interest rates and market liquidity. A decrease in trading volumes, interest rates or market liquidity, either individually or in combination, would adversely affect our business and profitability. Trading volumes are impacted by many factors, including client demand, market volatility and economic conditions, as discussed below. In calendar year 2008 and 2009, the global financial services industry, including securities and commodity markets, experienced and continues to experience significant adverse conditions, including substantially increased volatility, outflows of assets and securities, losses resulting from declining asset values, defaults on securities and reduced liquidity. This has led to the failure of certain financial services firms, led other firms to seek mergers with stronger competitors, including with commercial banks, required many financial institutions to raise additional capital and resulted in other firms becoming bank holding companies subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Bank. Many of the firms that have been adversely affected by the financial crisis were or are active participants in our markets. As a result of the failure of certain firms and reduced trading activity by others, overall trading volumes have decreased, which resulted in decreased revenues. In sharp contrast to prior periods of increased volatility, together with a perception of continuous worldwide economic growth and availability of credit, among other factors, that contributed to a commodities bull market and higher trading volumes, which consequently increased our revenues. The volume of transactions our clients conduct with us is directly affected by a number of U.S. and international market factors, most of which are beyond our control, including: • economic, political and market conditions; • broad trends in the brokerage and finance industry; • changes in levels of trading activity in the broader marketplace; • supply and demand for commodities; • financial strength of market participants; • price level and price volatility in the derivatives, interest rate, equity, foreign exchange and commodity markets; • legislative and regulatory changes; • actions of our competitors; • consolidation among exchanges and our competitors; • introduction of new products; • changes in cost and fee structures; • changes in government monetary policies; • the level and volatility of foreign exchange rates; • disruptions in markets due to terrorism, war or extreme weather events or other natural disasters; • inflation; and • new market entrants. Any one or more of the factors listed above, or other factors, may contribute to a decline in trading volumes or market liquidity. Any significant decline in trading volume in the financial markets generally, or the derivatives, interest rate, equity, foreign exchange or commodity markets in particular, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 24 Table of Contents A reduction in our overall trading volume could also render the markets in which we operate less attractive to participants as a source of liquidity and could result in further losses of trading volume and the associated transaction-based revenues. For example, the decrease in market participants as a result of the global economic crisis has hurt market liquidity and further decreases, and sustained decreases in market liquidity, could further adversely impact our overall trading. Such diminution of liquidity could also make it more difficult for us to generate profit margins on principal transactions. Accordingly, any reduction in trading volumes or market liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results in a material fashion. In addition to trading volumes, our revenues are impacted by the level of interest rates, as we generate revenue from net interest earned on the investment of the margin funds our clients place with us. Our interest income is directly affected by the spread between the short-term interest rates we pay our clients on their balances and the short-term rates we earn from re-investing their cash. While these spreads have remained within a relatively constant range over time, they can widen or narrow when interest rate trends change. In addition, a portion of our interest income relates to client balances on which we do not pay interest and thus is directly affected by the absolute level of short-term interest rates. As a result, a portion of our interest income will decline if interest rates fall, regardless of the spreads that determine most of our interest income. As a general matter, our financial performance has benefited from rising interest rates, which have increased our net interest income, and has been negatively impacted when short term interest rates decline, which has reduced our revenue from this. Our net interest income may also decline if clients reduce surplus margin balances they hold with us either because they are removing excess cash, or reducing their trading activity in the wider market generally or with us specifically. Fluctuations in interest rates are caused by many of the factors identified above as well as others. Any significant narrowing in short-term interest rate spreads or overall levels could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We face intense competition from other companies, and if we are not able to compete successfully with them, our business may be harmed. The derivatives and cash brokerage industry is fragmented and highly competitive, and we expect that competition will continue to intensify in the future. Many of our actual and potential competitors have larger client bases, more established name recognition and greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel resources than we do. Further, some of our competitors may be better capitalized that we are and some may have received subsidies and capital infusions from the U.S. government following the global economic crisis. As a result of these subsidies and infusions, these competitors may have lower operating costs due to their lower cost of capital or may be perceived by clients as having the benefit of the implicit guarantee of the U.S. government. These resources may enable them, among other things, to: • maintain a stronger credit rating than we do; • have a greater access to capital, which may allow them to require less collateral from clients than we do; • develop and provide products and services that are similar to ours, or that are more attractive to clients than ours, in one or more of our markets; • provide execution and clearing services that are more rapid, reliable or comprehensive, or less expensive than ours; • provide products and services we do not offer; • offer products and services at prices below ours to gain market share and to promote other businesses, such as prime brokerage, in which we engage to only a limited extent; • offer better, faster and more reliable technology; • outbid us for desirable acquisition targets; • market, promote and sell their products and services more effectively; and • develop stronger relationships with clients. We compete with a significant number of brokers in the U.S. and throughout the world in one or more markets. Although no one competitor operates in all of our markets, one broker, Newedge, which is a large, well capitalized financial institution with global operations, competes in many of our markets. In addition, affiliates of the largest financial institutions, including Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, UBS, Citigroup and Bank of America compete with us in key areas such as clearing services, which is a significant source of our revenue. We also compete with a large number of independent brokerage firms, such as R.J. O’Brien in the United States, as well as regional brokers in particular markets around the world. We have also witnessed the continuing increase of online trading platforms which provide direct competition to our traditional brokerage business. New or existing competitors could make it difficult for us to maintain our current market share or increase it in desirable markets. Even if they do not significantly erode or limit our market share, they may offer their services at lower prices, and we may be required to reduce our fees significantly to remain competitive. A fee reduction without a commensurate reduction in expenses would decrease our profitability. 25 Table of Contents We may not be competitive in developing regions. We regard emerging international markets, particularly in the Asia/Pacific region and in South America, as an important area of potential growth for our business. Due to cultural, regulatory and other factors relevant to those markets, however, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in those regions relative to local firms or to international firms that have a well established local presence. In some regions, we may need to acquire local capacity or enter into joint ventures with local firms in order to gain a presence, and we may face intense competition from other international firms over relatively scarce opportunities for market entry. This competition could make it difficult for us to expand our business as planned. The current trend toward electronic trade execution has diminished the role of some brokers in the execution process. We must continue to offer attractive, value-added services to keep pace with this trend and other industry changes. While clients have traditionally relied on brokers to execute orders (who receive them by telephone and route them to exchanges), a growing number of exchanges have developed systems that permit orders to be routed through brokers electronically, thereby enabling clients to avoid more costly voice-execution services and pressuring brokers to lower their execution commission rates. In a number of cases, exchanges provide large clients with direct electronic access, enabling them to bypass brokers in the trade-execution process altogether, which is known as broker disintermediation. For example, some of our largest institutional clients are now able to execute orders on some exchanges directly by electronic means and, as a result, the portion of the fees we earn from these clients for execution services has, in some cases, declined relative to the portion we earn from providing clearing services for these trades. As exchanges are devoting substantial resources to developing more efficient ways for clients to execute orders with reduced broker involvement, to the extent we are unsuccessful in enhancing the value-added execution services we offer, our revenues and profitability could suffer. Additionally, market structure and practices in our industry could change significantly in other ways, including some we may not foresee and we may not be able to adapt on a timely and cost-effective basis. To the extent that we do not adapt as rapidly or efficiently to industry changes as our competitors do, our business could suffer. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain our existing clients or attract new clients. The success of our business depends on our ability to maintain and increase our client base. Our clients are particularly sensitive to the diversity and flexibility of the services, products, markets and regions that we make available and the quality, speed and reliability of our order execution and clearing services, as well as the costs of using our services. Because the financial services industry in general, and the futures brokerage industry in particular, is subject to rapid innovation in products and services, and particularly with regard to technological development, we face intense competitive pressure to continue enhancing our product and service offerings in order to maintain and increase our client base. Fast and reliable systems technology with global reach has been a critical aspect of client service, and we must be able to keep pace with the important innovations in our industry, which could be costly and present operational and other risks. We may also face more difficulties in attracting new clients if we fail to offer as broad a range of services as those of our competitors, such as financial institutions, that also engage in non-brokerage businesses. Further, if our reputation for quality, speed and reliability is impaired, or if we fail to enhance existing or create new products and services or enter into new markets and regions, we may not be able to attract new clients, which may inhibit our growth. Our clients are not obligated to use our services and could easily and quickly switch providers of execution and clearing services, transfer their positions or decrease their trading activity conducted through us at any time. This is particularly true for our institutional clients who are sophisticated users of brokerage services, often have relationships with a number of competing brokers, and generate a disproportionately large share of our client trading volumes. As a result, we are vulnerable to potentially significant and sudden loss of revenues from our institutional client base. Similarly, while private clients in the past have generally been less likely to change brokers, their demand for brokerage services has generally been sensitive to broader market trends, so that a significant downturn or unusually heightened volatility in the derivatives or cash markets could lead to a substantial decline in revenues from our private client base. Many of our clients have longstanding relationships with individuals or teams within our company. To the extent any of those individuals or teams seek alternative employment, we may be in jeopardy of losing those clients. Our acquisition and growth strategy involves significant risks, and if we are unable to manage them effectively, our business may be materially harmed. In the past, we have significantly expanded our business both organically and through acquisitions that have extended our presence into markets as well as delivered scale within existing markets. 26 Table of Contents To continue our growth, we may pursue acquisitions of entire brokerage units or businesses, buying client accounts from other brokers, or by recruiting other brokers’ client personnel. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including but not limited to the following: • difficulties in the integration and retention of acquired client accounts or personnel and, in cases where we acquire an entire company or unit, the integration and effective deployment of operations or technologies. For example, the timely transfer of client accounts is key to the success of our acquisitions and failure to quickly integrate our software systems with those of an acquired company could result in errors or service disruptions, which could adversely impact our ability to maintain an ongoing relationship with any affected clients; • strain on our operations, information technology, compliance and financial systems; managerial controls and procedures; and our people; • the need to modify our systems or to add management resources; • unforeseen difficulties in the acquired operations and disruption of our ongoing business; • challenges in identifying pre-existing weaknesses or deficiencies in the acquired business’ risk management, internal controls or technology systems; • failure to achieve cost savings or other financial or operating objectives with respect to an acquisition; • amortization of acquired intangible assets, which would reduce future reported earnings; • possible adverse short-term effects on our cash flows or operating results, for example, when we acquire another company, we could incur severance and other acquisition costs that could reduce our net income • increased regulatory oversight and obligations, including higher capital requirements; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • assumption of unknown material liabilities or regulatory non-compliance issues; and • failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals in the event of a change in control or otherwise. We may, however, be unable to pursue our acquisition strategy. Competition for suitable acquisition targets is intense. Many of our largest competitors have substantially greater financial resources than we do and are able to outbid us on the most desirable targets. We may lack the financial resources necessary to consummate acquisitions in the future or may be unable to secure financing on favorable terms. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition targets, or to complete any transactions we identify on sufficiently favorable terms, to meet our strategic goals. We also may be unable to obtain regulatory or other governmental approvals that may be necessary to complete acquisitions. In addition, any future acquisitions may entail significant transaction costs and risks associated with entry into new markets. Even when we complete an acquisition, we may not realize the benefits we expected to attain. Organic growth presents risks similar to those associated with acquisitions. In particular, if we expand our operations too rapidly or otherwise beyond our ability to manage them effectively, we could encounter serious operational issues. Among other things, our ability to manage risk and ensure regulatory compliance could be impaired and result in financial loss or regulatory violations, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Failure to manage risks that arise from both acquisitions and organic growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results Our international operations present special challenges that we may not be able to meet and this could adversely affect our financial results. We currently conduct business internationally and plan to continue to expand our international operations. Our most significant international markets are in Europe, and expanding our business in emerging markets in the Asia/Pacific region is an important part of our growth strategy. During fiscal 2009, we generated approximately 44.8% of our revenues, net of interest and transaction-based expenses, outside North America and 11.2% outside North America and Europe. We face significant risks in doing business in international markets, particularly in developing regions. These risks include, but may not be limited to: • potentially unstable or adverse political climates; • local laws that could be unfavorable to our business; • less developed technological infrastructure and higher costs, which could make our products and services less attractive or accessible in emerging markets; • difficulty in complying with the diverse regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions, which may be more burdensome, not clearly defined and subject to unexpected changes, potentially exposing us to significant compliance costs and regulatory penalties; • inability to enforce contracts in some jurisdictions; 27 Table of Contents • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including reliance on newly hired local experts; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • regulatory requirements that serve to limit our ability to expand our presence in emerging and/or developing regions, in particular, Asia/Pacific countries; • other barriers to entry that make it difficult or costly to establish our business; • currency and tax laws that may prevent or restrict the transfer of capital and profits among our various operations around the world; and • time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world. In addition, in order to be competitive in these local markets, or in some cases because of restrictions on the ability of foreign firms to do business locally, we may seek to operate through joint ventures with local firms. For example, in India, we own a 70.2% interest in MF Global Sify Securities India Private Ltd., 75.0% of MF Global Financial Services India Private Limited, and in Taiwan, we currently own a 73.2% interest in MF Global Futures Trust Co. Ltd. and a 19.5% interest in Polaris MF Global Futures Co. Ltd., a publicly traded company. Doing business through joint ventures may limit our ability to control the conduct of the business and could expose us to reputational and perhaps greater operational risks. Given the intense competition from other international brokers that are also seeking to enter these fast-growing markets, we may have difficulty finding suitable local firms willing to enter into the kinds of relationships with us that we may need to gain access to these markets. Regulatory liberalization may not continue in developing regions. We also have benefited from recent regulatory liberalization in several emerging markets in developing regions, such as India, which has enabled us to increase our presence in those markets. Our ability to continue to expand our presence in the Asia/Pacific region will depend on the continued evolution of the regulatory environment in several markets, and there can be no assurance that the favorable regulatory trends of recent years will continue. Moreover, we may not be able to gain entry into other markets in the Asia/Pacific region if regulatory barriers to international firms in certain of those markets, particularly China, are not modified. If we commence doing business and building a presence in other regions, such as South America, we may have the same regulatory concerns and may face similar barriers to entry and limitations as we do in the Asia/Pacific region. Our principal transactions expose us to market risk. We take positions for our own account primarily to facilitate the execution of existing client orders or in anticipation that future client orders will become available to fill the other side of the transaction. These types of transactions are extensions of our matched-principal business, which involves our execution of client orders by entering into the requested trade for our own account and then entering into an offsetting trade or a series of trades with one or more parties relatively quickly. The offsetting trade is undertaken to eliminate or limit our exposure to changes in market prices. However, engaging in matched-principal transactions and other transactions related to our matched-principal business exposes us to market risk, that is, to the risk that market prices will change before we are able to execute an offsetting trade or a series of trades. In addition, we may not always enter into offsetting trades, or the offsetting trades we do execute may differ in certain respects, such as duration or other terms. In conjunction with client activity, we may enter into relative value trades to take advantage of temporary price differentials in related securities. Therefore, we may be exposed to market risk for limited periods, or to a partial extent, or both. We may also take positions for our own account in order to hedge our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate risks arising from the global character and financial focus of our operations. Because of the limitations and uncertainties inherent in hedging strategies, our exposure to market risk from these transactions may not be fully offset and may not always be fully known. Similarly, we may make investments as part of our balance sheet management activities that exposes us to market risk, particularly but not exclusively, from interest rate movements. For the reasons noted above and in “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Market Risk,” our trading practices do not eliminate market risk entirely, and we may incur trading losses from time to time. Further, we may in the future develop lines of business that increase our principal trading activities, which could consequently increase our exposure to market risk and trading losses. We cannot assure you that we will not incur significant losses at any time, particularly in the event of severe market stress. Failure to successfully implement the recent and ongoing reorganization of our operating structure could adversely affect our business. We are in the process of reorganizing our management and the way we sell our products. A principal focus of this reorganization is the implementation of a global management approach to our various product offerings to accommodate the global nature of our company. In the past, our business generally had been managed on a regional basis, we are now reorganizing to 28 Table of Contents focus on our principal products, which are fixed income, commodities, foreign exchange, equities and equity derivatives, interest rate products, as well as retail products. We are also implementing global policies and processes for governance and decision-making, enterprise risk management and technological development. The risks associated with implementing this new structure could include, but may not be limited to: • delays in decision-making and issue resolution as new structures and formal processes are implemented; • an increase in employee turn-over giving rise to dislocation associated with the new structures; • loss of an entrepreneurial culture; • increased complexity arising from more centralized, and less regional, controls; • increased travel, meeting and training costs as managers develop their global teams across multiple locations; and • diversion of attention from operations and other business concerns while adjusting to the new organizational structure. Failure to maintain our network of introducing brokers could adversely affect our business. We receive a significant amount of our private client business through our network of introducing brokers who assist us in establishing new client relationships and provide marketing and other services for a significant number of our clients for whom we execute and clear trades. We compensate these introducing brokers for introducing clients to us. Many of our relationships with introducing brokers are non-exclusive or may be terminated by the brokers on relatively short notice or at any time. In addition, our introducing brokers have no obligation to provide us with new client relationships or minimum levels of transaction volume. Our failure to maintain our relationships with these introducing brokers or the failure of these introducing brokers to establish and maintain client relationships could result in a loss of revenues, which could adversely affect our business. To the extent any of our competitors offer more favorable compensation to one of our introducing brokers, we could lose the broker’s services or have to increase the compensation we pay to retain the broker. Our relationships with our introducing brokers also may expose us to significant reputational and other risks. See “—Risks Related to Regulation and Litigation—We could be harmed by misconduct that is difficult to detect or deter.” Failure to attract and maintain our highly skilled management team, brokers and other employees could adversely affect our business. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain our highly skilled management team and other highly skilled employees who provide the necessary support and infrastructure to operate our business. Failure to retain one or more members of our management team or other key employees could adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively and execute our business strategy. Due to the complexity and risks associated with financial services and the specialized knowledge required to conduct and grow business effectively, the demand for qualified personnel has increased. If we fail to continue to provide competitive levels of compensation, or if we otherwise fail to provide a desirable work environment, many of our employees could find employment at other firms. Many of our employees have long-standing relationships with particular clients; the departure of any such employee could adversely affect our relationships with those clients, potentially resulting in the loss of one or more of such clients and related revenues. The time and costs required to identify, recruit and train replacements should we fail to retain our current employees could be significant. In addition, if we fail to attract highly qualified personnel going forward, we may have difficulty expanding our business and our competitiveness may suffer. In particular, failure to retain and attract qualified support, compliance and technology personnel could result in execution errors or regulatory infractions. Our ability to retain and attract highly skilled employees—both management and non-management—could depend heavily on the level of compensation offered. Consequently, our profitability could decline as we compete for personnel. Compensation levels in the brokerage industry are highly competitive and could fluctuate significantly from year to year and could be affected by legislative actions. Our risk-management methods might not be effective, which could harm our business. To manage the significant risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, monitor and control our exposure to financial, market, credit, legal, reputational and operational risks. For a description of our risk management approach, see “Item 1. Business—Our Business—Risk Management.” This risk management function requires, among other things, that we properly record and verify many hundreds of thousands of transactions and events each day, and that we continuously monitor and evaluate the size and nature of our clients’ positions and the associated risks. In light of the high volume of transactions, it is impossible for us to review and assess every single transaction or to monitor at every moment in time our client’s positions and the associated risks. We must rely upon our analysis of information regarding markets, personnel, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. That information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly analyzed. Further, we rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and potential failure, the challenges of which are exacerbated by the 24-hour-a-day, global nature of our business. 29 Table of Contents Our risk-management methods are based on internally developed controls, observed historical market behavior and what we believe to be industry practices. However, our methods may not adequately prevent future losses, particularly as they may relate to extreme market movements for which little or no historical precedent exists or our risk management efforts may be insufficient. Thus, our risk-management methods may prove to be ineffective because of their design, their implementation or the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information. Further our risk management methods may fail to identify a risk or understand a risk that might result in losses. If our risk-management efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. Additionally, we could be subject to litigation, particularly from our clients, and sanctions or fines from regulators. Our business exposes us to significant client and counterparty credit risks. Credit risk arises from the possibility that we may suffer losses due to the failure of clients, counterparties and borrowers to satisfy their financial obligations to us at all or in a timely manner. We are subject to credit risk in connection with many of our business activities and we may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by our clients or counterparties. Credit risks we face include, among others: • exposure to counterparties with whom we place funds, such as when we post margin with exchanges and brokers, when we deposit both our own funds and those of our clients with banks, when we enter into repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements or when we enter into stock lending and stock borrowing transactions; • exposure to issuers of securities we purchase or that are referenced in underlying securities we purchase, which we buy as part of our asset and liability management; • exposure to adverse movements in market prices that result in losses to a client that the client is unable or unwilling to meet and margin is insufficient to satisfy the client’s trading obligations, which may be a result of our failure to monitor client positions and accurately evaluate their risk exposures and thus to require that they post adequate margin initially or fail to increase their margin when necessary to keep pace with market movements that may increase their obligations from time to time; • exposure to clients to whom we provide secured (i.e. collateralized), unsecured and risk-based financing lines to cover initial and variation margin required by exchanges and to clients to whom we provide financing for OTC activity through thresholds set in Credit Support Annexes (CSAs) under ISDA agreements; • exposure due to failed settlement, which, if not corrected, could become our responsibility—as a result, we could incur a loss if we have paid but not received the corresponding securities, or delivered securities but have not been paid, or if we have to replace missing securities and the market price has moved adversely; • exposure to the possibility that execution-only clients will not pay us the commission owed on trades we have executed; • exposure to the risk that a clearing member of an exchange or clearing house where we are also a clearing member may default- should the amount of the default exceed their margin and clearing fund deposits, we may suffer losses as the shortfall is absorbed pro rata from the deposits of other clearing members; • exposure to the risk that political or economic failure, action, or embargo imposed on or by a specific country will prevent a transaction, a client or counterparty, or a group of clients or counterparties from completing a transaction as expected; • exposure to concentration risk, that is, a large exposure to a single client or counterparty, exposure to a group of connected clients or counterparties, or multiple exposures to a group of unrelated clients or counterparties but whose risk of default is driven by common factors—for example, the business or industry they are in or their geographical location; and • exposure to defaults by other larger financial institutions that are not our counterparties but that could adversely affect financial markets generally. Clients and counterparties that owe us money or securities may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Our reputation may be damaged if we are associated with a client or counterparty that defaults, even if we do not have any direct losses from such an event. Although we have procedures for reviewing the creditworthiness of our clients and counterparties, the risk of default may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Some of our risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding clients and markets that is provided to us by the client or is publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. We may also be adversely affected if settlement, clearing or payment systems, such as Euroclear or Continuous Linked Settlement, fail or are subject to systemic delays for any reason outside our control. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could have a cascading effect and lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems; and losses or defaults, or other 30 Table of Contents financial difficulties, for other institutions. This is often referred to as “systemic risk,” which may adversely affect our counterparties or financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore may adversely affect us. For an analysis of our credit risk—please refer to “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk.” We may be required to recognize further impairments of our goodwill or other intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The determination of the value of goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. We are required to test goodwill for impairment annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value may be impaired. We assess potential impairments to intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to goodwill and intangible assets are based on several factors which include: the operational performance of our acquired businesses, management’s current business plans which factor in current market conditions including contract and product volumes and pricing for future periods, the estimated fair value and yield of our debt, preferred securities, and equity, market capitalization, the trading price of our common stock, changes in customer attrition and trading volumes, as well as other factors. Management uses discounted cash flow analysis in their impairment assessments which involve the subjective selection and interpretation of data inputs, and given market conditions at the testing date, can include a very limited amount of observable market inputs available in determining the model. In fiscal 2009, consistent with the drastic decline in the capital markets in general and our industry in particular, we experienced a similar decline in the market value of our stock. As a result, our market capitalization was significantly lower than our book value. In accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, we performed impairment tests of our goodwill and during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we recognized a charge of $76.8 million to impair all of our goodwill. Also during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we recorded a charge of $5.2 million to impair certain intangible assets. These non-cash charges materially impacted our equity and results of operations in 2009, but did not affect our ongoing business operations, liquidity, cash flow or compliance with covenants for our credit facilities. We may record additional goodwill in future periods related to our existing earn out arrangements or future acquisitions. Changes to our business plan, continued macroeconomic weakness, declines in operating results, and continued low market capitalization, may result in our having to perform an interim goodwill impairment test or an intangible asset impairment test. These types of events and the resulting analysis could result in further goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in future periods. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL NEEDS AND FINANCIAL POSITION We must maintain substantial amounts of capital and liquidity to conduct and grow our business. If we have insufficient capital and liquidity we may not be able to maintain and/or grow our clearing operations. Our ability to provide clearing services, which is a critical part of our business, depends heavily on our ability to maintain capital, including equity capital at or above specified minimum levels required by various regulators throughout the world. Our failure to do so could expose us to significant penalties and sanctions which we describe under “—Risks Related to Regulation and Litigation—We are subject to regulatory capital requirements which could constrain our growth and subject us to regulatory sanctions.” We also need capital and liquidity to protect ourselves against the risk of default by our clearing clients and against clearing and settlement payment delays, caused by systemic problems outside our control in one country or between countries. Therefore, we may maintain capital and liquidity at levels determined in accordance with our internal risk management guidelines that could be greater than regulatory requirements. Thus, as a clearing broker, we must maintain capital and liquidity not only to comply with applicable laws and regulations, but to manage the risks inherent in our clearing operations in accordance with guidelines that we believe to be appropriate. If our risk management guidelines are insufficient or if we do not apply them properly we may not hold capital or liquidity to cover our needs. To the extent the levels we hold either at group or in an individual entity are insufficient, the firm and/or the entity is exposed to failure. Our credit ratings could be adversely affected if we do not maintain sufficient capital and liquidity. A reduction in our credit ratings could harm the way we are perceived by clients and our ability to attract and effectively invest client assets. Should we be unable to readily access capital and liquidity our clients may be unwilling to clear their transactions through us. Generally, clients clear their trades—and clearinghouses and other clearing firms deal—only with firms that are regarded as well capitalized and that maintain acceptable credit ratings from the independent rating agencies such as Fitch, Moody’s and S&P. In addition, our clearing contracts for investment products managed by Man Group as well as a number of our bilateral contracts in the OTC markets include ratings maintenance requirements. Furthermore, we rely on uncommitted credit lines to finance our 31 Table of Contents day-to-day clearing operations. Liquidity or capital issues, whether perceived or real, could prompt these lenders to reduce the amount of financing we use to conduct our clearing operations, which in turn could prompt us to reduce the amount of business we conduct and could accelerate client withdrawals. Thus, if we are unable to maintain capital at levels that the rating agencies or the market generally consider appropriate for our business, if we experience actual or perceived liquidity issues, or if for any other reason the market loses confidence in our financial condition, we could be unable to provide competitive clearing services, which are a major part of our business, and our clients could withdraw assets from their accounts, which could impair a substantial source of our interest income. In addition, any announcement by a rating agency that our credit rating is being downgraded, or even that we are being placed on “credit watch” with potential negative implications, could have a serious adverse impact on our operating results and our financial condition, as was the case following the February 2008 unauthorized trading incident when we were put on ‘negative watch’ by our rating agencies, and downgraded by two out of three of them. Moreover, concerns about our credit ratings may limit our ability to pursue acquisitions and, to the extent we pursue acquisitions that affect our credit ratings, our business may suffer. To avoid a situation where our credit rating is at risk, we may need to limit the growth of our business or even to reduce our operations. We could also be compelled to raise additional capital on unfavorable terms, which could result in substantial additional interest or other expenses and lower earnings. If we were forced to raise equity capital, it could result in substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. For these reasons, we must maintain continuous access to adequate and sufficiently liquid sources of capital, including equity capital and external committed facilities on acceptable terms. Failure to do so could have severe consequences from a regulatory, operational or credit counterparty and solvency perspective. Even a less severe outcome, such as retaining the ability to obtain capital and liquidity but only at a higher cost, could significantly increase our interest expense and impair our earnings. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could reduce our earnings. Our revenues and expenses are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, British pounds and Euros. The largest percentage of our revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars while the largest percentage of our non-U.S. expenses is denominated in British pounds and Euros. As a result, our earnings could be affected by changes in the U.S. dollar/British pound and U.S. dollar/Euro exchange rate and to a lesser extent changes in the U.S. dollar versus Asian currencies. Such changes have occurred and placed downward or upward pressure on our earnings in recent years. While we may seek to mitigate our exposure to currency exchange rates through hedging transactions, these efforts are not always successful. For example, we realized net currency translation losses totaling $1.0 million for fiscal 2007, and net currency translation gains of $12.6 million for fiscal 2009 and $3.9 million for fiscal 2008. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Market Risk.” Adverse trends in currency exchange rates could have a harmful effect on our earnings, and while we have realized net currency translation gains in the most recent periods, we could incur significant currency translation losses in the future. Moreover, changes in currency exchange rates from one period to the next could make period-to-period comparisons of our performance—historically as well as in the future—more difficult. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations due to seasonality and, as a result, our operating results in any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of our future or annual performance. In prior years, our business has experienced seasonal fluctuations, reflecting reduced trading activity during summer months, particularly in August. We also generally experience reduced trading activity in December due to seasonal holidays. In addition, trading in some commodity derivatives, such as energy, is affected by the supply of, and demand for, the underlying commodity, which is seasonal and may change significantly. We also may experience reduced revenues in a quarter due to a decrease in the number of business days in that quarter. As a result of these seasonal fluctuations, our operating results in any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of our future or annual performance. RISKS RELATED TO REGULATION AND LITIGATION We operate in a heavily regulated environment that imposes significant compliance requirements. Our failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to sanctions and adversely affect our business. We are extensively regulated by governmental bodies and self-regulatory organizations worldwide. Many of the regulations we are governed by are intended to protect the public, our clients and the integrity of the markets, and not necessarily our shareholders. In the United Kingdom, we are principally regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA). In the United States, we are principally regulated in the futures markets by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), and in the securities markets by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE). Further, as participants in the U.S. financial services industry, our business is subject to the USA PATRIOT Act, which requires us to know certain information 32 Table of Contents about our clients and to monitor their transactions for suspicious activities. Our business is also regulated by U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, which requires that we refrain from doing business, or allow our clients to do business through us, in certain countries or with certain organizations or individuals on a prohibited list maintained by the U.S. government. We are also regulated in all regions by local regulatory authorities and the various exchanges of which we are members. For example, we are regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the Australian Securities and Investment Commission and the Investment Dealers Association of Canada, among others. These regulators and self-regulatory organizations influence the conduct of our business and regularly examine our business to monitor our compliance with their regulatory requirements. Among other things, we are subject to regulation with regard to: • our sales practices, including our interaction with and solicitation of clients and our marketing activities; • the custody, control and safeguarding of our clients’ assets; • account statements, record keeping and retention; • maintaining specified minimum amounts of capital and limiting withdrawals of funds from our regulated operating subsidiaries; • regular financial and other reporting to regulators; • anti-money laundering and other reporting practices; • licensing for our operating subsidiaries and our employees; • identifying our clients and determining the beneficial ownership of assets held by our clients, gathering required information about them and monitoring their account activities; • the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates; and • supervision of our business. We face risks that our policies, procedures, technology and personnel directed toward complying with the foregoing types of laws and regulations may be insufficient and that we could be subject to significant regulatory, criminal and civil penalties due to non-compliance. These penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. See “Item 1. Business—Our Business—Regulation and Exchange Memberships” for further discussion of these matters. Many of the laws and regulations by which we are governed grant regulators broad powers to investigate and enforce compliance with their rules and regulations and to impose penalties and other sanctions for non-compliance. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” If a regulator finds that we have failed to comply with its rules and regulations, we may be subject to fines or other sanctions, which could adversely affect our reputation and operations. In particular, certain of the requirements that we must comply with are focused on protecting our private clients. If we fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, removal of personnel, civil litigation or other sanctions, including, in some cases, increased reporting requirements or other undertakings, revocation of our operating licenses or criminal conviction. For example, we are currently involved in investigations by the CFTC involving transactions that our clients or employees executed. Although we have established an accrual of $10.0 million to cover potential CFTC civil monetary penalties with respect to certain CFTC matters, we can not assure you that such accrual will be sufficient for these purposes or that the CFTC will not require remedial measures. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, we may also be subject to the loss of clients, negative publicity and litigation, particularly from our retail clients. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and regulations is dependent in large part on our internal compliance function as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. Non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues and earnings. The regulatory environment in which we and our clients operate is subject to continual change. The legislative and regulatory environment in which we operate has undergone significant changes in the recent past and future regulatory changes in our industry are likely given the events observed in 2008 and 2009. The governmental bodies and self-regulatory organizations that regulate our business may propose and consider additional legislative and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations. As a result, in the future, we or our clients may become subject to new regulations that could affect the way in which we conduct our business and could make our business less profitable. For example, on May 13, 2009, the U.S. Department of Treasury and other U.S. regulatory bodies proposed additional regulatory oversight with respect to the trading of OTC derivatives, which includes, but is not limited to: • requiring all standardized OTC derivatives to clear through regulated central counterparties; • subjecting all OTC derivatives dealers and all other firms who create large exposures to counterparties to a robust regime of prudential supervision and regulation (conservative capital requirements, business conduct standards, reporting requirements, initial margin requirements with respect to bilateral credit exposures on both standardized and customized products); • imposing additional recordkeeping and reporting requirements, as well as data disclosure requirements to make data available to the public and to federal regulators; 33 Table of Contents • encouraging a migration of derivatives transactions onto electronic trading platforms to improve price transparency; and • granting the CFTC and SEC additional authority to police fraud, market manipulation and other market abuses and setting position limits on OTC derivatives that perform or affect a significant price discovery function. These proposals have not been adopted and, if and when they are, we can not predict the form they will take. At this time, we believe that the proposals in their current form may adversely affect our business and profitability by requiring us to incur additional expenses to satisfy new compliance requirements and by imposing additional capital requirements upon us (both in terms of maintaining additional regulatory capital and requiring additional margin capital to participate in the markets). We also believe that the proposals may adversely affect the volume and profitability of our OTC derivatives business. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations by our regulators may also adversely affect our business. In addition, the regulatory enforcement environment has created uncertainty over certain practices or types of transactions that in the past were considered permissible and appropriate among financial services firms, but that later have been called into question or have had additional regulatory requirements imposed on them. Legal or regulatory uncertainty and additional regulatory requirements could result in a loss of business. For example, in 2007, European regulators adopted the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, which extended coverage of the existing Investment Services Directive and introduced new and more extensive requirements for most firms in financial services relating to the conduct of their business and internal organization. Moreover, in 2008 European regulators applied, pursuant to their Capital Requirements Directive, new capital requirements with respect to the minimum levels of regulatory capital that we must hold. As discussed above, new and changing regulatory requirements may make it more difficult or less profitable for us to operate our business. We are subject to regulatory capital requirements which could constrain our growth and subject us to regulatory sanctions. The CFTC, SEC, FSA and other U.S. and non-U.S. regulators require us to maintain specific minimum levels of regulatory capital in our operating subsidiaries that conduct our futures and securities business. As of March 31, 2009, we were required to maintain approximately $1.2 billion minimum capital, which includes regulatory early warning requirements, in the aggregate across all jurisdictions (including $125.9 million in respect of goodwill and other intangible assets). Regulators require a minimum of shareholders’ equity to support the regulatory requirements, the percentage of which will vary by regulator and jurisdiction, while the balance of the regulatory requirements may be satisfied by subordinated liabilities. We generally maintain total regulatory capital in excess of the minimum requirements in order to meet our internal risk management guidelines and, as a result, our capital costs could be substantially higher than those attributable solely to applicable regulatory or self-regulatory requirements. Regulators continue to evaluate and modify regulatory capital requirements from time to time in response to market events and to improve the stability of the international financial system. For example, since January 1, 2008, we have been subject to the requirements of the European Union’s Capital Requirements Directive. These requirements are in the process of being agreed with the FSA, which could increase our minimum capital requirements for our UK regulated entities. Even if regulators do not change existing regulations or adopt new ones, our minimum capital requirements could generally increase in proportion to the size of the business conducted by our regulated subsidiaries as noted above. If we are unable to cost-effectively meet higher regulatory capital requirements we may not be able to expand our operations and increase our revenues. In addition, our ability to allocate our capital resources most efficiently throughout our global operations may be constrained if we are not permitted to withdraw regulatory capital (including excess regulatory capital) maintained by our subsidiaries without prior regulatory approval or notice. In particular, these restrictions could limit our ability to withdraw funds needed to satisfy our ongoing operating expenses, debt service and other cash needs. Regulators monitor our levels of capital closely. We are required to report the amount of regulatory capital we maintain to our regulators on a regular basis, and we must report any deficiencies or material declines promptly. While we expect that our current amount of regulatory capital will be sufficient to meet anticipated short-term increases in requirements, including the effects of the European Union’s Capital Requirements Directive, any failure to maintain the required levels of regulatory capital, or to report any capital deficiencies or material declines in capital could result in severe sanctions, including fines, censure, restrictions on our ability to conduct business and suspension or revocation of our registrations. The imposition of one or more of these sanctions could ultimately lead to our liquidation, or the liquidation of one or more of our subsidiaries. For more information on the minimum regulatory capital requirements for our futures and securities brokerage subsidiaries, see “Item 1. Business—Our Business—Regulation and Exchange Memberships.” We could be harmed by misconduct that is difficult to detect and deter. A number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms have come to light in recent years. Like our peers, we are exposed to risks relating to misconduct by our employees, our clients’ employees or introducing brokers. For example, our employees could execute unauthorized transactions for our clients, for themselves or any of our accounts; use client assets improperly or without authorization; perform improper activities on behalf of clients; use 34 Table of Contents confidential client or company information for improper purposes; or mis-record or otherwise try to hide improper activities from us. Such exposures could be heightened in the case of private clients’ accounts for which our brokers, in limited circumstances, exercise discretionary authority. Misconduct by employees of our clients could also expose us to claims for financial losses or regulatory proceedings when it is alleged that we or our employees knew or should have known that an employee of our client was not authorized to undertake certain transactions. Dissatisfied clients could make claims against us, including but not limited to claims for negligence, fraud, unauthorized trading, failure to supervise, inadequate disclosure of risks, breach of fiduciary duty, intentional misconduct or unauthorized transactions. Although we do not control the activities of our introducing brokers, we could be held responsible for their improper conduct. If an introducing broker executes trades through us that are unlawful, our regulators could hold us responsible if they were to conclude that we knew or should have known that the trades were unlawful. Moreover, a substantial number of our introducing brokers in the United States are “guaranteed” introducing brokers, meaning that we have agreed to use our capital to effectively guarantee their capital in exchange for their agreement to affect client trades exclusively through us. Under the Commodity Exchange Act, we are financially responsible for the obligations of our guaranteed introducing brokers, and we are also effectively responsible for their obligation to comply with the Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC rules and regulations. Employee or introducing broker misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Our controls may not be effective in detecting this type of activity. For example, in February 2008, one of our brokers engaged in unauthorized trading of certain commodity futures, which following detection, resulted in a loss of $141 million. Further, in May 2009, the Commercial Court in London ruled that a broker formerly employed by us engaged in fraudulent acts, over seven years ago, against a client and as a result of such acts, we are liable to our former client for approximately $30 million. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Inadvertent employee error could subject us to losses. Our employees or introducing brokers may commit errors that could subject us to financial losses, claims for negligence or regulatory actions. Employee errors, including but not limited to, mistakes in executing, recording or reporting transactions for clients, could cause us to enter transactions that clients disavow and refuse to settle. Employee errors expose us to the risk of material losses until the errors are detected and the transactions are unwound or reversed. The risk of employee error or miscommunication may be greater for products that are new or have non-standardized terms. Further, such errors may be more likely to occur in the aftermath of any acquisitions during the integration of or migration from technological systems. We are subject to significant litigation risk, which could adversely affect our business. Many aspects of our business involve risks that expose us to substantial liability under U.S. federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as the rules and enforcement efforts of our regulators and self- regulatory organizations worldwide. These risks include, among others, disputes with clients and other market participants over terms of a trade, client losses resulting from system delay or failure and client claims that we or our employees executed unauthorized transactions, recommended unsuitable trades, made materially false or misleading statements or lost or diverted client assets in our custody. We may also be subject to regulatory investigation and enforcement actions seeking to impose significant fines or other sanctions, which in turn could trigger civil litigation. The volume of claims and the amount of damages and fines claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial intermediaries has been increasing. The large amounts involved in the trades we execute, together with rapid price movements in our markets, could result in potentially large damage claims in any litigation resulting from such trades. Dissatisfied clients, particularly private clients, frequently make claims against their brokers, including us, regarding the quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud, and these claims may increase as our business expands. Litigation may also arise from disputes over the exercise of our rights with respect to client accounts and collateral. Even if we prevail in any litigation or enforcement proceedings against us, we could incur significant legal expenses defending against the claims, even those without merit. Moreover, because even meritless claims could damage our reputation or raise concerns among our clients, we may feel compelled to settle claims at significant cost. An adverse resolution of any claims or proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition or operating results. For example, the Commercial Court in London recently ruled that we must pay a former client approximately $30 million in compensation for damages suffered as a result of fraudulent misrepresentations made over seven years ago by a former broker. As a result, in addition to the monetary loss sanctioned by the court, we may also suffer reputational loss even though these losses occurred over seven years ago before we were an independent company. Although we intend to appeal the decision on legal grounds, we cannot assure any success in the appeal. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Our business may be adversely affected if our reputation is harmed. Our business is subject to significant reputational risks. If we fail, or appear to fail, to address various issues that may affect our reputation, our business, firm and shareholders could be seriously harmed. Issues could include real or perceived legal or 35 Table of Contents regulatory violations or be the result of a failure in governance, risk-management, technology or operations. Similarly, market rumors and actual or perceived association with counterparties whose own reputation is under question could seriously harm our business. Claims of employee misconduct, adverse publicity, conflict of interests, ethical issues, money laundering, privacy concerns and unfair sales and trading practices could also cause significant reputational damages. Such reputational damage could result not only in an immediate financial loss to the business, but also loss of clients, capital, liquidity and shareholder value to the firm. In recent years, a number of financial services firms have suffered significant damage to their reputations from highly publicized incidents or rumors that in turn resulted in sudden and in some cases irreparable harm to their business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SEPARATION FROM MAN GROUP Our non-competition and non-solicitation agreements with Man Group restrict our ability to engage in asset management activities and may not sufficiently restrict Man Group from competing with us. In connection with the reorganization, separation and recapitalization from Man Group, we entered into a master separation agreement with Man Group that governs the principal terms of the separation of our business from Man Group. As part of this agreement, we and Man Group have agreed to non-competition and non-solicitation agreements that are intended to prevent us from competing against one another for a period of three years following the separation, or until July 2010. The non-competition agreement, with certain exceptions (including waivers that we have obtained with respect to the operation of a funds management business in North America and Taiwan), prohibits us from engaging during this period in various hedge fund asset management activities and from selling certain hedge fund products to third parties for distribution to retail investors. Similarly, with certain exceptions, Man Group is prohibited during this period from providing any third party with brokerage, execution or clearing services for exchange-listed futures or options, cash equities or bonds, OTC derivatives related to equities, fixed income and commodities (including contracts for differences and spread-trading) or foreign exchange. In addition, we and Man Group have agreed that we will not solicit any employees of the other party or its subsidiaries until July 2010, the third anniversary of our IPO. The non-competition provisions limit the scope of our business activities, which could limit our future growth opportunities. While Man Group has agreed to refrain from competing with us, this agreement may not be effective in preventing Man Group from competing with us in important markets, particularly following its expiration, or be broad enough to cover activities in which we may engage in the future. If the agreement limits our future growth or is not effective in preventing Man Group from competing with us, directly or indirectly, our business and results of operations may suffer. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS AND TECHNOLOGY A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our business, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. Rapid, reliable processing of orders and information is critical to our business and our clients, since any delay or disruption could cause significant financial losses. Moreover, if our clients become concerned about the reliability of our systems, they could quickly take their business to our competitors. Our computer and communications systems could slow down, malfunction or fail for a variety of reasons, including loss of power, vendor or network failure, acts of war or terrorism, human error, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses or worms, heavy stress placed on our systems during peak trading times, intentional acts of vandalism, client error or misuse, lack of proper maintenance or monitoring and similar events. Our systems could also fail in the event of a sudden, unpredicted surge in trading volume, which could occur in times of severe market stress. Many of these risks are beyond our control. If events of the kind described above were to occur in the future, they could cause material disruption or failure of our computer and communications systems, with any number of severe consequences, including: • unanticipated disruptions to our business and operations; • unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; • slower response times; • delays in our clients’ trade execution; • failed settlement of trades; and • incomplete or inaccurate recording, reporting or processing of trades. Any upgrades or expansions to our systems or networks may require significant expenditures of funds and may also increase the probability that we could suffer system degradations and failures. Future system expansions, implementations, back-ups and disaster recovery plans may not be effective and may not address unanticipated or predicted trading volume increases or 36 Table of Contents service disruption scenarios entirely. The same may be true for our third-party service providers. If enhancements or upgrades of third-party software and systems can not be integrated with our technologies or if the technologies on which we rely fail to respond to industry standards or technological changes, we may be required to design our own proprietary systems. Software products may contain defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Delay, disruption or failure of our communications and computer systems may lead to financial losses, litigation, arbitration claims by our clients, or investigations and sanctions by our regulators. Our reputation could also be harmed, causing us to lose existing clients and business and making it more difficult for us to attract new clients. Further, any resulting financial losses could be magnified by price movements of contracts involved in trades that are delayed or fail due to these events, and we may be unable to take corrective action to mitigate these losses. Our systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks, which could, among other things, result in wrongful use of our information, or make our electronic platforms unattractive to participants. The networks we use, including our online trading platforms and those of our third-party service providers, as well as the networks of the exchanges and other market participants with whom we interact, may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems, including the inadvertent dissemination of non-public information. Any such problems or security breaches could result in our having liability to one or more third parties. Persons who circumvent security measures or gain access to client information could wrongfully use our or our clients’ information, or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. While we rely in part on security services and software provided by outside vendors to reduce this risk, we may nonetheless be subject to serious security breaches and other disruptions. If an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our or our service providers’ security measures were to occur, or if we were to release confidential client information inadvertently, our reputation could be impaired and the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed. As a result, clients may reduce or stop their use of our services, including our online trading platforms. We or our service providers may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. The security measures we rely on may prove to be inadequate and could cause incidental system failures and delays, and thus could lower trading volumes and adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. Further, breaches in client privacy could result in legal fines or penalties. We rely on third-party providers and other suppliers for a number of services that are important to our business. An interruption or cessation of an important service or supply by any third party could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on a number of suppliers, such as third-party electronic platforms to process trades, online service providers, hosting service and software providers, data processors, software and hardware vendors, banks, and telephone companies, for elements of our trading, clearing and other systems. The general trend toward industry consolidation may increase the risk that these services may not be available to us in the future. Moreover, we rely on access to certain data used in our business through licenses with third parties. If these companies were to discontinue providing services to us, we would likely experience significant disruption to our business. We cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. We also can not assure you that any of these providers will not terminate our business relationship with them for competitive reasons or otherwise. An interruption in or the cessation of an important service or supply by any third party and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner, or at all, would result in lost revenues and higher costs. In addition, even if we made alternative arrangements, these arrangements may prove to be less effective or reliable or more costly. Further, changing systems could also result in service interruptions or failures during an initial transition period, which could subject us to loss, including loss of client business, and make us less competitive over the longer term. We must regularly maintain and upgrade our computer and communications systems in response to technological change and client and regulatory demands in order to remain competitive, which is resource intensive. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving client demand and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing technology and systems inadequate or obsolete. Our future success depends in part on our ability to respond to demand for new services, products and technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to adapt to technological advancements and changing standards, so as to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our clients and prospective clients. We may not be successful in developing, introducing or marketing new services, products and technologies. Any new service, product or technology we develop may not 37 Table of Contents be accepted by the market. Any failure on our part to anticipate or respond adequately to technological advancements, client requirements or changing industry standards, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We must also devote resources to the regular maintenance of our systems, which, together with any necessary upgrades or expansions, could require significant expenditures of funds. We depend on outside vendors to provide some of the principal computerized systems we use to execute and clear client trades. Our ability to modify these outside systems is limited. As a result, as our markets expand and our clients’ trading and investment needs evolve, we may need to develop further our own proprietary systems to supplement or even replace some existing systems. That process would require a very significant capital investment and could involve difficult transition periods when service may be interrupted or may fail. If and when we decide, or are required, to upgrade or expand our systems (including our own proprietary systems), we may not have the funds necessary and the changes we make or undertake to make may not be successful or accepted by our clients. Our failure to maintain our systems as necessary or to upgrade and expand them in response to evolving client demands or emerging industry standards would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STATUS AS A BERMUDA COMPANY Our exemption from certain Bermuda taxes is effective until March 28, 2016, and if it is not extended our results of operations could be adversely affected. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, has given us an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or any of our operations, shares, debentures or other obligations, except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by us in respect of real property leased by us in Bermuda. This assurance by the Bermuda Minister of Finance expires on March 28, 2016. There is no guarantee that we will receive a renewed assurance from the Bermuda Minister of Finance, or that the Bermuda Government will not take action to impose taxes on our business. If the Bermuda Government imposed significant taxes on our business, our earnings could decline significantly. We are incorporated in Bermuda, and some of our directors and a significant portion of their and our assets will be located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for security holders to enforce civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and a significant portion of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, some of our directors are not (and some of our future directors may not be) citizens or residents of the United States. In addition, a significant portion of the assets of our non-U.S. directors are (and for new directors may be) located outside the United States. Consequently, it may be difficult to serve legal process within the United States upon any of our non-U.S. directors. In addition, it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Bermuda or against our non-U.S. directors in their home countries, or in countries other than the United States where we or they have assets, particularly if the judgments are based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. There is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised by our legal advisors in Bermuda that the United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. Similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in countries, other than the United States, where we or our non-U.S. directors have assets. In the event of a change or adverse interpretation of relevant income tax law, regulation or treaty, our overall tax rate may be substantially higher than the rate used for purposes of our consolidated financial statements. Our effective tax rate is based upon the application of currently applicable income tax laws, regulations and treaties, as well as current judicial and administrative interpretations of these income tax laws, regulations and treaties. These income tax laws, regulations and treaties, and the administrative and judicial authorities interpreting them, are subject to change at any time, and any such change may be retrospective. Presently, a number of countries are considering changes to their tax laws that have the potential to affect negatively the tax expense of our subsidiaries, including those that operate within and outside those 38 Table of Contents countries. At present, certain pieces of proposed legislation could, if enacted in their current form, adversely impact our tax rate and the amount of tax that we pay. However, it is unclear whether these proposals will be enacted in their current form and we do not believe it is possible at this time to predict whether and how future proposals may affect us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 