Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the U.S. Financial Industry Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional financial institutions such as our Company. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting 44 economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: $ We potentially face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. $ Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. $ The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. $ Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. $ We will be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation and other measures undertaken by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and other governmental agencies will help stabilize the U.S. financial system or improve the housing market. Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or the EESA, which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. The EESA gives broad authority to the Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other Atroubled assets.@ The EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including: $ Authority for the Federal Reserve to pay interest on depository institution balances; $ Mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection; $ Temporary increase in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 through December 31, 2009; and $ Authority to the SEC to suspend mark-to-market accounting requirements for any issuer or class of category of transactions. Pursuant to the TARP, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On November 12, 2008, the Treasury Secretary announced that the Treasury was no longer pursuing a broad plan to purchase illiquid mortgage-related assets, but would continue to examine whether targeted forms of asset purchases can play a useful role. 45 Shortly following the enactment of the EESA, the Treasury announced the creation of a capital purchase program, or CPP, pursuant to which it proposes to provide access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier I capital. Because of the additional capital raised in the conversion, First Financial Northwest has determined not to submit an application for participation in TARP. The EESA also contains a number of significant employee benefit and executive compensation provisions, some of which apply to employee benefit plans generally, and others of which impose on financial institutions that participate in the TARP program restrictions on executive compensation. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, Congress, Treasury, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the subprime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the repeated lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. Moreover, on October 14, 2008, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation announced the establishment of a Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLGP, to provide full deposit insurance for all noninterest-bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-insured institutions and their holding companies. Insured institutions are automatically covered by this program for the period commencing October 14, 2008 and will continue to be covered as long as they did not opt out of the program by December 5, 2008. First Financial Northwest did not opt out of the program. Under the program, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will guarantee timely payment of newly issued senior unsecured debt issued on or before June 30, 2009. The debt includes all newly issued unsecured senior debt (e.g., promissory notes, commercial paper and inter-bank funding). The aggregate coverage for an institution may not exceed 125% of its debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009, or, for certain insured institutions, 2% of liabilities as of September 30, 2008. The guarantee will extend to June 30, 2012 even if the maturity of the debt is after that date. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that the EESA and such related measures undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis will have generally on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of First Financial Northwest=s common stock. Finally, there can be no assurance regarding the specific impact that such measures may have on usCor whether (or to what extent) we will be able to benefit from such programs. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or Stimulus Bill, into law. The Stimulus Bill is intended to revive the US economy by creating millions of new jobs and stemming home foreclosures. In addition, the Stimulus Bill significantly rewrites the original executive compensation and corporate governance provisions of Section 111 of the EESA, which pertains to financial institutions that have received or will receive financial assistance under TARP or related programs. This legislation is not expected to have any effect on First Financial Northwest since it determined not to participate in TARP. The Administration also announced in February 2008 its Financial Stability Plan (FSP) and Homeowners Affordability & Stability Plan (HASP). Many details have yet to be finalized. FSP is the second phase of TARP, to be administrated by the Treasury. Its four key elements include: 46 $ a development of a Public/Private investment fund essentially structured as a government sponsored enterprise with the mission to purchase troubled assets from banks with an initial capitalization from government funds; $ Continuation of the Capital Assistance Program with the Treasury purchasing additional bank capital available only for banks that have undergone a new stress test given by their regulator; $ An expansion of the Federal Reserve=s term asset-backed liquidity facility to support the purchase of up to $1 trillion in AAA-rated asset backed securities backed by consumer and small business loans; and $ Establishment of a mortgage loan modification program with $50 billion in federal funds further detailed in the HASP. The HASP is a voluntary program aimed to help seven to nine million families restructure their mortgages to avoid foreclosure with $275 billion in government funding commitments. The plan also develops uniform guidance for loan modifications nationwide. However, it is mandatory for recipients of FSP financial assistance. HASP provides programs and funding for eligible refinancing of loans owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, along with incentives to lenders, mortgage servicers, and borrowers to modify mortgages of Aresponsible@ homeowners who are at a risk of defaulting on their mortgage. The goals of HASP are to assist in the prevention of home foreclosures and to help stabilize falling home prices. These plans are not expected to have any direct impact on First Financial Northwest since it has determined not to participate. To the degree that the plans help stabilize the national banking system and aid in the recovery in the housing market, First Financial Northwest will be a beneficiary. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers= underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Business Adverse economic conditions, particularly in Washington State, have caused and could continue to cause us to incur losses. Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. In 2007, the housing and real estate sectors experienced an economic slowdown that has continued into 2008 and 2009. Further deterioration in economic conditions, in particular within our primary market area in King, Pierce, Kitsap and Snohomish counties, Washington, real estate markets are having and may continue to have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services. In particular the economic slowdown in our market areas is resulting in many of the following conditions, which could continue to hurt our business materially: $ an increase in loan delinquencies; $ an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; $ a decline in the demand for our products and services; and $ a decrease in the value of loan collateral, especially real estate, which, in turn have reduced customers= borrowing power and reduced the value of assets and collateral securing our loans. 47 Downturns in the real estate markets in our primary market area have hurt our business. Our business activities and credit exposure are primarily concentrated in King, Pierce, Kitsap and Snohomish counties, Washington. Our construction/land development loan portfolio, our commercial and multifamily loan portfolios and certain of our other loans have been affected by the downturn in the residential real estate market. We anticipate that further declines in the estate markets in our primary market area will hurt our business. As of December 31, 2008, substantially all of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by real estate. If real estate values continue to decline the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The events and conditions described in this risk factor could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The lack of diversification in our loan portfolio may hurt both our asset quality and profits. With substantially all of our loans secured by real property and concentrated in the State of Washington, and specifically, 57.5%, 23.7%, 4.2% and 5.2% of our total loan portfolio concentrated in King, Pierce, Kitsap and Snohomish counties, Washington, respectively, declines in local economic conditions have adversely affected the values of our real estate collateral. Consequently, declines in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. While one-to-four family first mortgages remain the largest portion of our loan portfolio, our operating strategy includes an increased emphasis on the expansion of construction/land development, commercial and multifamily real estate lending and lending to businesses while decreasing our overall percentage of one-to-four family loans in our loan portfolio. In addition, although these loans are intended to enhance the average yield of our earning assets, they do involve a different, and possibly higher, level of risk of delinquency or collection than generally associated with loan portfolios of more traditional community banks because, among other factors, these loans involve larger balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. In this regard, at December 31, 2008, approximately $81.9 million or 7.8% of our total loan portfolio, net of loans in process, consisted of construction/land development loans to five real estate builders and their affiliates. As a result of this lending concentration, and since construction/land development loans generally have large balances, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectibility of these loans, we may need to significantly increase our provision for loan losses since any resulting charge-offs will be larger on a per loan basis. Consequently, this could materially adversely affect our future earnings. Further, if we lost our relationship with one or more of these large borrowers our liquidity would substantially increase and our future earnings could be adversely affected. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could be reduced. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions including the level of problem loans, business conditions and credit concentrations. Management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.6% of total loans, and 29.0% of nonperforming loans, net of loans in process, at December 31, 2008. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 48 We may be required to make further increases in our provisions for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2008 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $9.4 million compared to $6.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Loan charge-offs for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $432,000 and $0, respectively. We are experiencing increasing loan delinquencies. Generally, our nonperforming loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the economy. In addition, slowing sales have been a contributing factor to the increase in nonperforming loans as well as the increase in delinquencies. At December 31, 2008 our total nonperforming loans, net of undisbursed funds, had increased to $58.6 million compared to $25.0 million at December 31, 2007. In that regard, our portfolio includes construction/land development loans and commercial loans, all of which have a higher risk of loss than residential mortgage loans. While loans related to the construction/land development portfolio represented 22.0% of our gross loan portfolio at December 31, 2008 they represented 75.1% of our nonperforming assets at that date. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, if the recession worsens we expect that it would further negatively impact economic conditions in our market areas and that we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. An increase in our credit losses or our provision for loan losses would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate construction/land development, commercial, multifamily, consumer, and one-to-four family residential mortgage loans primarily within our market areas. Generally, these types of loans, other than the one-to-four family residential mortgage loans, have a higher risk of loss. We had approximately $625.1 million outstanding in these types of higher risk loans at December 31, 2008. These loans have greater credit risk than one-to-four family residential real estate loans for a number of reasons, including those described below: Construction /Land Development Loans. This type of lending contains the inherent difficulty in estimating both a property=s value at completion of the project and the estimated cost (including interest) of the project. If the estimate of construction cost proves to be inaccurate, we may be required to advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the project. If the estimate of value upon completion proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted at, or prior to, the maturity of the loan with a project the value of which is insufficient to assure full repayment. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk to us than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. Loans on land under development or held for future construction also pose additional risk because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral. These risks can be significantly impacted by supply and demand conditions. As a result, this type of lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor themselves to repay principal and interest. At December 31, 2008, we had $250.5 million or 22.0% of gross loans in construction/land development loans. Our construction/land development loans are based upon estimates of costs and values associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate. Construction/land development lending involves additional risks when compared with permanent residential lending because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. This type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. In addition, generally during the term of a construction/land development loan, no payment from the borrower is generally required since the accumulated interest is added to the principal of the loan through an interest reserve. These loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to 49 repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of a completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. Further, as a result of the slowdown in the housing market, we have extended construction loans to permit completion of the project or the borrower additional time to market the underlying collateral. Most of these loans mature within 12 months. To the extent these loans are not further extended or the borrower cannot otherwise refinance with a third party lender our nonperforming construction loans may increase. Commercial Real Estate and Multifamily Residential Loans. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. Commercial real estate and multifamily residential loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by one-to-four family residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as one-to-four family residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multifamily real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. At December 31, 2008, we had $361.7 million or 31.8% of gross loans in commercial real estate and multifamily residential loans. If we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, as a result of our increasing emphasis on this type of lending, a large portion of our commercial real estate loan portfolio is relatively unseasoned and has not been subjected to unfavorable economic conditions. As a result we may not have enough payment history with which to judge future collectibility or to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, commercial real estate loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectibility of our commercial real estate loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) are collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower=s financial stability, and thus are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. Home equity lines of credit have greater credit risk than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because they are secured by mortgages subordinated to the existing first mortgage on the property, which we may or may not hold and do not have private mortgage insurance coverage and are adjustable rate/loans. At December 31, 2008, we had $12.9 million or 1.1% of gross loans in consumer loans. Our concentration in non-owner occupied real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk. At December 31, 2008, $212.1 million, or 41.4% of our one-to-four family residential mortgage loan portfolio and 18.6% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of loans secured by non-owner occupied residential properties. Loans secured by non-owner occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner occupied properties because repayment of such loans depend primarily on the tenant=s continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner=s ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner occupied properties is often below that of owner occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards, which has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner occupied residential loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. At December 31, 2008, we had 57 non-owner occupied residential loan relationships, with aggregate outstanding balances of $164.3 million and each loan relationship had an aggregate outstanding balance over $500,000. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one credit relationship may expose us to a 50 greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner occupied residential mortgage loan. Our non-performing residential mortgage loans increased from $526,000 at December 31 2007 to $10.8 million at December 31, 2008, primarily due to an increase in nonperforming non-owner occupied residential mortgage loans. At December 31, 2008, nonperforming non-owner occupied residential mortgage loans totaled $10.3 million, or 4.9% of our non-owner occupied residential loan portfolio, of which $9.1 million was attributable to a single borrower. This increase in non-performing, non-owner occupied residential mortgage loans was a factor in our need to increase our allowance for loan losses through an increased provision for loan losses. We could face an assessment to guarantee public funds in Washington State. We accept state and local fund deposits from public treasurers in Washington State as a Qualified Public Depositary under the State=s Public Deposit Protection Act administered by the Public Deposit Protection Commission or the Commission. As of December 31, 2008 we held $81.7 million in public funds. Washington law requires qualified banks and thrifts to pledge eligible collateral into a collateral pool administered by the Commission to mutually guarantee with other members of the pool against a loss of funds suffered by a public treasurer as a result of a failure by a member of the pool. We meet the minimum standards under the law and are only required to pledge collateral at least equal to 10% of the public deposits we hold. The Commission has the authority to require up to 100% collateral for banks not meeting minimum standards. Our maximum liability should any member(s) of the collateral pool default on their uninsured public funds is limited to 10% of public funds we hold. Assessments for loss are based on a pro rata share of public funds held. Our share of total public funds on December 31, 2008 was 0.96%. The AThrift Collateral Pool,@ which we are a member, has never had an assessment for a loss of uninsured public deposits by any member of the pool. The ABank Collateral Pool@ had its first ever assessment in the first quarter of 2009. Legislation is actively being considered to require all public depositaries to pledge 100% eligible collateral against public funds held on deposit. Should this legislation become law, each public depositary would be individually responsible for the protection of uninsured public funds they hold. The legislation would also merge the Thrift and Bank Collateral pools. Further declines in our market value could result in an impairment of goodwill. Recently, our common stock has been trading at a price below its book value, including goodwill and other intangible assets. Further declines in our common stock could result in an impairment of goodwill. If an impairment was deemed to exist, we would be required to write down our assets resulting in a charge to earnings. Our business strategy may result in increased volatility of earnings. Our business strategy is focused on reducing the size of the construction/land development portfolio and diversifying our construction loan portfolio among more builders with less concentration per builder. In addition First Savings Bank is planning expansion in multifamily, commercial real estate and business banking lending activities. These types of lending activities, while potentially more profitable than single-family lending, are generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. Economic trends in Western Washington State are further weakening and may contribute to further declines in real estate values, which would reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans and increase the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers defaulted on their loans. In addition, the repayment of commercial real estate loans and multifamily loans generally are dependent, in large part, on the successful operation of the property securing the loan or the business conducted on the property securing the loan. Also, loan balances for commercial real estate and residential construction tract loans are typically larger than those for permanent single-family and consumer loans. Accordingly, when there are defaults and losses on these types of loans, they are often larger on a per loan basis than those for permanent single-family and consumer loans. A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate and construction loans is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. 51 Our business strategy includes plans for growth, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We expect to experience growth in the amount of our assets, the level of our deposits and the scale of our operations. Achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers that currently bank with other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. In addition, to the extent we expand our lending beyond our current market area, we could incur additional risk related to those new market areas. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to attract and retain experienced bankers, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market area and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan, and our business and prospects could be harmed. The loss of our current Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer may hurt First Financial Northwest=s and First Savings Bank=s operations because it may be difficult to hire qualified replacements. The loss of our Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Victor Karpiak, could have a material adverse impact on the operations of First Savings Bank since he has been instrumental in managing the business affairs of First Savings Bank. Other officers within First Savings Bank do not have the experience and expertise to readily replace Mr. Karpiak. If First Savings Bank were to lose Mr. Karpiak, the board of directors would most likely have to search outside of First Savings Bank for a qualified, permanent replacement. This search may be prolonged and we cannot assure you that First Savings Bank would be able to locate and hire a qualified replacement without interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our operations. Mr. Karpiak has a significant amount of responsibility for the operations of First Savings Bank. As a result we face unique operational and internal control challenges because of our reliance on him, which also makes risk management and general supervisory oversight more difficult. We believe we have adequate risk management procedures and internal control systems in place, however, there can be no assurance that errors will not occur or that we will be able to maintain effective internal controls in the future. Any future failure to maintain effective internal controls could impair the reliability of our financial statements which in turn could harm our business, impair investor confidence and subject us to regulatory penalties. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. 52 We could see declines in our uninsured deposits which would reduce the funds we have available for lending and other funding purposes. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in the fourth quarter of 2008 increased the federal insurance of deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000 and provided 100% insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts for participating members including First Savings Bank. These increases of coverage, with the exception of IRA and certain retirement accounts are set to expire at the end of 2009. Congress is considering the extension of the deposit insurance increases. With the increase of bank failures, depositors are reviewing deposit relationships to maximize federal deposit insurance coverage. We may see outflows of uninsured deposits as customers restructure their banking relationships in setting up multiple accounts in multiple banks to maximize federal deposit insurance coverage. If external funds were not available, this could adversely impact our growth and prospects. We rely on deposits and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle or market conditions were to change. Although we consider such sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, there can be no assurance in this regard and we may be compelled or elect to seek additional sources of financing in the future. Likewise, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives, in connection with future acquisitions or for other reasons. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could materially adversely affect our business, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. In connection with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (AAct@) and the implementation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Act. This requires us to prepare an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including among other matters, management=s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. If we fail to identify and correct any deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Our deposit insurance assessments will increase substantially, which will adversely affect our profits. Our assessment for federal deposit insurance from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $470,000 at an assessment rate of seven basis points for deposits. Assessments for federal deposit insurance are expected to increase significantly for 2009 as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation implements its Deposit Insurance Fund restoration plan that it adopted on February 27, 2009 by interim rule. The restoration plan increases the base assessment rates for banks of all risk categories, adjusts premiums for new risk factors, and imposes an emergency special assessment of 20 basis points payable on September 30, 2009 based on deposits as of June 30, 2009. The special assessment was adopted by interim rule and subject to a 30 day comment period and may change. While we do not know the exact cost of our special assessment, based on our deposits as of December 31, 2008 of $867.8 million our estimated special assessment cost would be $1.7 million. The new total base assessment rates issued by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in the Deposit Insurance Fund restoration plan range from seven basis points to 77.5 basis points spread over four risk categories. We expect 53 our base assessment to increase in 2009 as compared to 2008. The interim rule would also permit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to impose an additional emergency special assessment after June 30, 2009, of up to ten basis points if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance. Our ability to foreclose on single family home loans may be restricted. New legislation proposed by Congress may give bankruptcy judges the power to reduce the increasing number of home foreclosures. Bankruptcy judges would be given the authority to restructure mortgages and reduce a borrower=s payments. Property owners would be allowed to keep their property while working out their debts. This legislation may restrict our collection efforts on one-to-four family loans. Separately, the administration has announced a voluntary program under the TARP law which provides for government subsidies for reducing a borrower=s interest rate, which a lender would have to match with its own money. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., prime) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume, and overall profitability. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. At December 31, 2008, we had $865.5 million in loans due after one year with fixed rates of interest, representing 76.1% of our total loan portfolio and 69.6% of our total assets. Our most recent Arate shock@ analysis indicates that our net portfolio value would be more adversely affected by an increase in interest rates than by a decrease. See AItem 7, Management=s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations B Asset and Liability Management and Market Risk.@ Our single branch location limits our ability to attract retail deposits and as a result a large portion of our deposits are certificates of deposit, including AJumbo@ certificates which may not be as stable as other types of deposits. Our single branch location limits our ability to compete with larger institutions for noninterest bearing deposits as these institutions have a larger branch network providing greater convenience to customers. As a result, we are dependent on more interest rate sensitive deposits. At December 31, 2008, $645.4 million, or 81.6%, of our total deposits were certificates of deposit, and of that amount $421.2 million, or 65.3%, of the certificates of deposit were Ajumbo@ certificates of $100,000 or more. In addition, at that date our high yield money market accounts totaled $121.2 million or 15.3% of our total deposits. Deposit inflows are significantly influenced by general interest rates. Our money market accounts and jumbo certificates of deposit and the retention of these deposits are particularly sensitive to general interest rates, making these deposits traditionally a more volatile source of funding than other deposit accounts. In order to retain our money market accounts and jumbo certificates of deposit, we may have to pay a higher rate, resulting in an increase in our cost of funds. In a rising rate environment, we may be unwilling or unable to pay a competitive rate because of the resulting compression in our interest rate spread. To the 54 extent that such deposits do not remain with us, they may need to be replaced with borrowings or other deposits which could increase our cost of funds and negatively impact our interest rate spread and our financial condition. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by us, which could limit our growth and profitability. We face direct competition from a significant number of financial institutions, many with a state-wide or regional presence, and in some cases a national presence, in both originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition in originating loans comes primarily from other banks, mortgage companies and consumer finance institutions that make loans in our primary market areas. We also face substantial competition in attracting deposits from other banking institutions, money market and mutual funds, credit unions and other investment vehicles. In addition, banks with larger capitalization and non-bank financial institutions that are not governed by bank regulatory restrictions have large lending limits and are better able to serve the needs of larger customers. Many of these financial institutions are also significantly larger and have greater financial resources than us, have been in business for a longer period of time and have established customer bases and name recognition. We compete for loans principally on the basis of interest rates and loan fees, the types of loans we originate and the quality of service we provide to borrowers. Our ability to attract and retain deposits requires that we provide customers with competitive investment opportunities with respect to rate of return, liquidity, risk and other factors. To effectively compete, we may have to pay higher rates of interest to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market area, our profitability may be negatively affected, potentially limiting our ability to pay dividends. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may also limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. See Item 1., ABusiness B Competition.@ Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. First Financial Northwest has not received any written comments from the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended that are unresolved. Item 