D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a significant amount of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in our publicly filed documents which does not consist of an exhaustive list of risk factors an investor should consider, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial conditions or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such an event, the trading price of our Common Shares could decline and you may lose part or all of your investment in our securities. Any reference in this section to our “products” includes a reference to our products and future products we may develop. Risks related to Neptune’s business History of Prior Losses Since commencement of its activities, the Corporation has incurred losses. At February 28, 2009, the Corporation’s accumulated deficit was $25,131,127. The Corporation had net losses of $1,888,710, $4,784,804 and $2,677,433 in the fiscal periods ended February 28, 2009, May 31, 2008 and May 31, 2007, respectively. It is expected that the Corporation will continue to experience operating losses until product sales and royalty payments generate sufficient revenues to fund its operations, including research and product development. Quarterly fluctuations are also anticipated in respect of sales, expenses, losses and cash flows. We cannot say when, if ever, the Corporation will become profitable. Profitability will depend on our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products and the licensing of our technology that will offset the significant expenditures required for us to advance our research, protect and extend our intellectual property and develop, manufacture, license, market, distribute and sell our technology and products successfully. Similar types of expenditures in the past resulted in the net losses reported above. 7 Reliance on Key Personnel The Corporation is reliant on certain members of its management and scientific staff, and the loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could adversely affect the Corporation. The Corporation will be required to continue to implement and improve its management systems and to recruit and train qualified employees. Although the Corporation has in the past been successful in attracting and retaining skilled and experienced personnel, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will continue to do so in the future. Patents and Proprietary Technology The Corporation's success depends in part on its ability to obtain patents, protect its trade secrets and operate without infringing third-party exclusive rights or without others infringing the Corporation's exclusive rights or those granted to it under license. The Corporation has filed patent applications in Canada, the United States, Europe and elsewhere and is actively pursuing these matters. The patent position of biopharmaceutical firms is generally uncertain and involves complex legal, factual and scientific issues, several of which may remain unresolved. The Corporation does not know whether any of its pending patent applications will be granted or whether the Corporation will be able to develop other patentable proprietary products. Furthermore, the Corporation does not know whether its existing or future patents will provide a competitive advantage or afford protection against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, the Corporation cannot give any assurance that such patents will not be challenged or circumvented by others using alternative technology or whether existing third-party patents will prevent the Corporation from marketing its products. In addition, competitors or potential competitors may independently develop, or have independently developed products as effective as those of the Corporation or invent or have invented other products based on the Corporation's patented products. If third-party licenses are required, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to obtain such licenses, or if obtainable, that they would be available on reasonable terms. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to develop or obtain alternative technologies related to third-party patents that may inadvertently cover its products. Inability to obtain such licenses or alternative technologies could delay the market launch of certain Neptune products, or even prevent the Corporation from developing, manufacturing or selling certain products. In addition, the Corporation could incur significant costs in defending itself in patent infringement proceedings initiated against it or in bringing infringement proceedings against others. The Corporation cannot determine with any certainty if it has priority in relation to a product or process covered by a patent application or if it was the first to file a patent application for any such invention. Further, in the event of patent litigation there can be no assurance that the Corporation's patents, if issued, would be held valid or enforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction or that a court would rule that the competitor's products or technologies constitute patent infringement. Moreover, a significant part of the Corporation's technological know-how constitutes trade secrets. The Corporation, therefore, requires that its employees, consultants, advisers and collaborators sign confidentiality agreements. However, there can be no assurance that such agreements provide adequate protection in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of the Corporation's trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Additional Funding Requirements and Access to Capital The Corporation may require substantial additional funds for further research and development, scheduled clinical testing, regulatory approvals and the commercialization of its products. Neptune may seek additional funding for these purposes through public or private equity or debt financing, collaborative arrangements with other biopharmaceutical companies and/or from other sources. There can be no assurance that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms to permit successful commercialization of the Corporation’s products. Should the Corporation fail to obtain the necessary capital, it may be required to delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of its various research programs or seek financial support from one of its corporate partners or from third-parties who may require that the company waive significant rights regarding protection of its proprietary technologies or offer it financial support on less favourable terms than those normally acceptable to the Corporation. 8 Environmental Matters The Corporation’s research and development processes involve the use of certain regulated materials. The Corporation is subject to federal, provincial, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials. The Corporation believes that its safety procedures comply with such regulatory requirements, and that it has sufficient insurance coverage in place against this risk; however, the risk of accidental contamination or injury cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, the Corporation could be held liable for damages, which could exceed the resources of the Corporation. Although the Corporation believes that it complies in all material respects with the applicable environmental legislation and regulations, and currently has no immediate plans for major capital expenditures in respect of environmental protection installations, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will not be required to incur significant costs to comply with regulatory requirements in the future, or that the operations, business or assets of the Corporation will not be materially adversely affected by current or future legislative or regulatory requirements. Availability and Sources of Raw Materials The Corporation depends on third parties for the sourcing of components for its various products. The Corporation believes that alternative sources of supply for its various raw materials exist. However, any change in the Corporation’s suppliers could have a significant impact on the Corporation's capacity to complete certain of its current research and development projects and, accordingly, would affect its projected commercial and financial growth. While other potential alternative suppliers of raw material have been identified, they must first pass intensive validation tests to ensure their compliance with product specifications. No assurance can be given regarding the successful outcomes of such tests or the ability of Neptune to secure alternate sources of supply at competitive pricing, and upon fair and reasonable contractual terms and conditions. We are dependent on a limited number of customers We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue. During 2009, three customers each represented more than 10% of our total 2009 revenue, or 48.6% in the aggregate (2008 – two customers represented 31.4% of sales; 2007 – three customers represented 41.3% of revenue). A decline in revenue from these customers or a loss of a large customer could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. To reduce this reliance, we have been targeting new customers and new business opportunities. In addition, if any of our customers has insufficient liquidity, we could encounter significant delays or defaults in payments owed to us by customers, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Any deterioration in the financial condition of our customers will increase the risk of collecting receivables. The current global economic crisis could also impact our customers' ability to pay receivables or result in customers having financial difficulty or even going into bankruptcy or reorganization which could also impact our ability to collect our receivables. Foreign Currency Fluctuations The Corporation expects that most of its revenues will be in United States dollars and Canadian dollars. From time to time, the Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce foreign exchange exposure. Significant fluctuations in the rate of exchange could adversely affect the Corporation's financial performance. There is a risk of loss arising from an eventual weakening of the United States dollar. Value of Intangible Assets The Corporation is required to review the carrying value of its intangible assets for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Intangible assets include the net book value of product rights, trademarks and process know-how covered by certain patented and non-patented information. Management reviews the carrying value based on projected future results. If events such as an increase in generic competition or inability to manufacture or obtain supply of products occur that may cause sales of the related products to decline, the Corporation adjusts the projected results accordingly. Any impairment in the carrying value results in a write-down of the intangible asset that is charged to income during the period in which the impairment is determined. The write-down of intangible assets may have a material adverse effect on the results of operations in the period in which the write-down occurs. 9 Risks related to Neptune’s Industry Biopharmaceutical Sector The biopharmaceutical sector must contend with dramatic scientific and technological developments and regulatory requirements that may, within a relatively short timeframe, render the products and processes developed or planned by the Corporation less profitable or obsolete. Rapid Technological Change The Corporation operates in a sector that is subject to rapid and substantial change. There can be no assurance that products developed by others will not render the Corporation’s products or technologies non-competitive or that the Corporation will be able to keep pace with technological developments. Competitors may have developed or may be in the process of developing technologies that could be the basis for competitive products. Some of these products may prove more effective and less costly than products developed by the Corporation. Government Regulations The development, production and commercialization of biopharmaceutical products is generally subject to comprehensive regulations under Health Canada's Therapeutic Products Program and various other national, regional and local regulatory bodies, including the Food and Drug Administration in the United States. No assurance can be given that the Corporation or its clients and partners will not encounter difficulties or will not incur excessive costs in obtaining the necessary approvals or permits, which could delay or prevent the commercialization and production of its products. Distribution of the Corporation's products outside Canada and the United States is also subject to comprehensive government regulation. Regulations, specifically requirements in respect of product releases, the time involved in respect of regulatory assessment and the sanctions imposed in the event of infringement vary from country to country. No assurance can be given that the Corporation will obtain the requisite approvals in the relevant countries or that it will not incur significant expense in obtaining regulatory approvals or maintaining them in effect. Failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, the suspension or revocation of current approvals or any failure to comply with regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's operations, its financial situation and its operating results. Competition Competition in the biopharmaceutical sector is intense. The Corporation competes with companies that produce similar or nearly identical biopharmaceutical products or that propose different approaches to the separation or purification of components of krill. Certain of those companies have greater resources than the Corporation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that products developed by these other companies or that their equivalent technology in the area of separation or purification of components of krill will not adversely affect the Corporation's competitiveness. Uncertainty Regarding the Outcome of Clinical Studies In most countries, the use and sale of therapeutic products is regulated by governmental or regulatory agencies to ensure their safety and efficacy. To obtain approval of such agencies for the use, distribution, marketing and sale of such products and to demonstrate their safety and efficacy, pre-clinical and clinical testing is required. There can be no assurance that any such study relating to any product will provide satisfactory results. If results are not satisfactory, the Corporation could abandon its commitment to the relevant product or research program. 10 Potential Product Liability The development of human therapeutic products involves an inherent risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. Product liability insurance is costly, often limited in scope, and could be unavailable or only available on terms unacceptable to the Corporation. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to obtain or maintain insurance on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect itself against potential product liability claims that could impede or prevent commercialization of the Corporation's future products. A product liability claim against the Corporation or the withdrawal of a product from the market could have a materially adverse effect on the Corporation’s business or its financial condition. Uncertain Market The Corporation believes that products based on its core technology will have numerous applications and that there is a growing market for the products that it has developed. However, there can be no assurance that these expectations are accurate, particularly considering competition from existing or new products and the uncertain commercial viability of certain of the Corporation's products. Volatility of Share Price Market prices for securities in general, and that of biopharmaceutical companies in particular, tend to fluctuate. Factors such as the announcement to the public, or in various scientific or industry forums, of technological innovations, new commercial products, patents, exclusive rights obtained by the Corporation or others, results of preclinical and clinical studies by the Corporation or others, a change of regulations, publications, financial results, public concerns over the risks of pharmaceutical products such as blood and plasma filtration products for the removal of pathogens or over the safety of blood collection systems, future sales of securities by the Corporation or its shareholders and many other factors could have considerable effects on the price of the Corporation’s securities. 