ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company. Our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Risks Relating to our Business We currently have no product revenues or products approved for marketing, and will need to raise additional capital to operate our business. To date, we have generated no product revenues. Until, and unless, we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities overseas for one or more of our drug candidates, we cannot market or sell our products and will not have product revenues. Currently, our only drug candidates are neratinib (oral), neratinib (intravenous) and PB357, and none of these products is approved by the FDA for sale in the United States or by other regulatory authorities for sale outside the United States. Moreover, each of these drug candidates is in the early stages of development and will require significant time and capital before we can even apply for approval from the FDA. Therefore, for the foreseeable future we do not expect to achieve any product revenues and will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from cash on hand, licensing fees and grants, and potentially future offerings of our securities. Currently, we believe that our cash on hand is sufficient to fund our operations for the next 12 months. However, changes may occur that would consume our available capital before that time, including changes in and progress of our development activities, acquisitions of additional drug candidates and changes in regulation. We will need to seek additional sources of financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we do not succeed in timely raising additional funds on acceptable terms, we may be unable to complete planned pre-clinical and clinical trials or obtain approval of any drug candidates from the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, we could be forced to discontinue product development and forego attractive business opportunities. Any additional sources of financing will likely involve the issuance of additional equity securities, which will have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We have a limited operating history and are not profitable and may never become profitable. We were formed in April 2007 and were a “shell” company with no specific business plan or purpose until we acquired Puma on October 4, 2011. Puma was a development-stage company formed in September 2010 and, prior to entering into the license agreement with Pfizer in August 2011, its operations were limited to identifying compounds for in-licensing. As a result, we have a history of operating losses and no meaningful operations upon which to evaluate our business. We expect to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future as we commence development of our drug candidates, which we do not expect will be commercially available for a number of years, if at all. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more drug candidates, we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. The successful development and commercialization of any drug candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: • undertaking pre-clinical development and clinical trials; • hiring additional personnel; • participating in regulatory approval processes; • formulating and manufacturing products; • initiating and conducting sales and marketing activities; and • implementing additional internal systems and infrastructure. We will likely need to raise additional capital in order to fund our business and generate significant revenue in order to achieve and maintain profitability. We may not be able to generate this revenue, raise additional capital or achieve profitability in the future. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the value of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents We are heavily dependent on the success of neratinib (oral), our lead drug candidate, which is still under clinical development, and we cannot be certain that neratinib (oral) will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized even if we receive regulatory approval. We currently have no products that are approved for commercial sale and may never be able to develop marketable drug products. We expect that a substantial portion of our efforts and expenditures over the next few years will be devoted to our lead drug candidate, neratinib (oral). Accordingly, our business currently depends heavily on the successful development, regulatory approval and commercialization of neratinib (oral). We cannot be certain that neratinib (oral) will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized even if we receive regulatory approval. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, marketing and distribution of drug products are and will remain subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries that have differing regulations which differ from country to country. We are not permitted to market neratinib (oral) in the United States until it receives approval of an NDA, from the FDA, or in any foreign countries until it receives the requisite approval from such countries. We have not submitted an NDA to the FDA or comparable applications to other regulatory authorities and do not expect to be in a position to do so for the foreseeable future. Obtaining approval of an NDA is an extensive, lengthy, expensive and inherently uncertain process, and the FDA may delay, limit or deny approval of neratinib (oral) for many reasons, including: • we may not be able to demonstrate that neratinib (oral) is safe and effective as a treatment for our targeted indications to the satisfaction of the FDA; • the results of our clinical studies may not meet the level of statistical or clinical significance required by the FDA for marketing approval; • the FDA may disagree with the number, design, size, conduct or implementation of our clinical studies; • the clinical research organization, or CRO, that we retain to conduct clinical studies may take actions outside of our control that materially adversely impact our clinical studies; • the FDA may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical studies sufficient to demonstrate that the clinical and other benefits of neratinib (oral) outweigh its safety risks; • the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical studies or may require that we conduct additional studies; • the FDA may not accept data generated at our clinical study sites; • if our NDA is reviewed by an advisory committee, the FDA may have difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting in a timely manner or the advisory committee may recommend against approval of our application; • the advisory committee may recommend that the FDA require, as a condition of approval, additional pre-clinical studies or clinical studies, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions; • the FDA may require development of a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy as a condition of approval; • the FDA may identify deficiencies in the manufacturing processes or facilities of our third-party manufacturers; or • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow our business may be harmed. As of December 31, 2011, we had 18 employees, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, our Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Treasurer, and our Senior Vice President, Regulatory Affairs, Quality Assurance and Pharmacovigilance. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, 19 Table of Contents hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled scientific, technical, marketing, managerial and financial personnel. Although we will seek to hire and retain qualified personnel with experience and abilities commensurate with our needs, there is no assurance that we will succeed despite their collective efforts. During the next year, we intend to hire up to 23 additional full-time employees devoted to clinical activities, seven additional full-time employees for the regulatory and quality assurance function, and three additional full-time employees devoted to general and administrative activities. Competition for personnel is intense, and any failure to attract and retain the necessary technical, marketing, managerial and financial personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may not successfully manage our growth. Our success will depend upon the expansion of our operations and our ability to successfully manage our growth. Our future growth, if any, may place a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational and financial resources. Our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us to implement and improve our operational, financial and management systems and to expand, train, manage and motivate our employees. These demands may require the hiring of additional management personnel and the development of additional expertise by management. Any increase in resources devoted to research and product development without a corresponding increase in our operational, financial and management systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Clinical trials are very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement. Each of our drug candidates is still in development and will require extensive clinical testing before we are prepared to submit an NDA for regulatory approval. We cannot predict with any certainty if or when we might submit an NDA for regulatory approval for any of our drug candidates or whether any such NDA will be approved by the FDA. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming. We estimate that clinical trials of our drug candidates will take at least several years to complete. Furthermore, failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by several factors, including: • failure to obtain regulatory and IRB approval to commence a trial; • unforeseen safety issues; • determination of dosing issues; • lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; • inability to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and clinical trial sites; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; • failure to manufacture sufficient quantities of a drug candidate for use in clinical trials; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; and • inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols. Further, we, the FDA or an IRB may suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we or our collaborators are failing to conduct a trial in accordance with regulatory requirements, that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks, or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our IND submissions or the conduct of these trials. Therefore, we cannot predict with any certainty the schedule for commencement and completion of future clinical trials. If we experience delays in the commencement or completion of our clinical trials, or if we terminate a clinical trial prior to completion, the commercial prospects of our drug candidates could be harmed, and our ability to generate revenues from the drug candidates may be delayed. In addition, any delays in our clinical trials could increase our costs, slow down the approval process and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Enrollment and retention of patients in clinical trials is an expensive and time-consuming process and could be made more difficult or rendered impossible by multiple factors outside our control. We may encounter delays in enrolling, or be unable to enroll, a sufficient number of patients to complete any of our clinical trials, and even once enrolled we may be unable to retain a sufficient number of patients to complete any of our trials. Patient enrollment and retention in clinical trials depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the existing body of safety and efficacy data with respect to the study drug, the number and nature of competing treatments and ongoing clinical trials of competing drugs for the same indication, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the study. Furthermore, any negative results we may report in clinical trials of any of our drug candidates may make it difficult or impossible to recruit and retain patients in other clinical studies of that same drug candidate. Delays or failures in planned patient enrollment and/or retention may result in increased costs, program delays or both, which could have a harmful effect on our ability to develop our drug candidates or could render further development impossible. In addition, we expect to rely on CROs and clinical trial sites to ensure proper and timely conduct of our future clinical trials and, while we intend to enter into agreements governing their services, we will be limited in our ability to compel their actual performance. The results of our clinical trials may not support our drug candidate claims. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support the safety and effectiveness of our drug candidates for our targeted indications. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and pre-clinical testing. A failure of a clinical trial to meet its predetermined endpoints would likely cause us to abandon a drug candidate and may delay development of other drug candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our drug candidates and generate product revenues. Physicians and patients may not accept and use our drugs. Even if the FDA approves one or more of our drug candidates, physicians and patients may not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of our product will depend upon a number of factors including: • perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drug; • cost-effectiveness of our product relative to competing products; • availability of reimbursement for our product from government or other healthcare payors; and • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. Because we expect sales of our current drug candidates, if approved, to generate substantially all of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of these drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing. We rely on third parties to conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates. We depend upon independent investigators and collaborators, such as CROs, universities and medical institutions, to conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials under agreements with us. These collaborators are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with 21 Table of Contents regulatory requirements and the applicable protocol. These investigators may not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard or otherwise fails to satisfy applicable regulatory requirements, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. These collaborators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of whom may compete with us. If our collaborators assist our competitors to our detriment, our competitive position would be harmed. If any of our relationships with these third-party collaborators terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative third parties on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Switching or adding additional third parties to our clinical trial programs can involve substantial costs and require extensive management time and focus. We will rely exclusively on third parties to formulate and manufacture our drug candidates. The commercialization of any of our drug candidates could be stopped, delayed or made less profitable if those third parties fail to provide us with sufficient quantities of product or fail to do so at acceptable quality levels or prices. We have no experience in drug formulation or manufacturing and do not intend to establish our own manufacturing facilities. We lack the resources and expertise to formulate or manufacture our own drug candidates. We currently have no agreements for the clinical or commercial-scale manufacture of our drug candidates. We intend to enter into agreements with one or more manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. While our drug candidates were being developed by Pfizer, both the drug substance and drug product were manufactured by third-party contractors. We intend to continue those relationships to maintain our supply of the drug candidates; however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue those relationships on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to continue those relationships, we could experience delays in our development efforts as we locate and qualify new manufacturers. If any of our current drug candidates or any drug candidates we may develop or acquire in the future receive FDA approval, we will rely on one or more third-party contractors to manufacture the commercial supply of our drugs. Our anticipated future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers exposes us to the following risks: • We may be unable to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor. This approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our products after receipt of FDA approval, if any. • Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drugs in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical needs and commercial needs, if any. • Our future contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. • Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP regulations and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. • If any third-party manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our products, we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to the innovation. Each of these risks could delay (i) our clinical trials, (ii) the approval, if any, of our drug candidates by the FDA or (iii) the commercialization of our drug candidates; or result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenues. 22 Table of Contents We are subject to uncertainty relating to reimbursement policies which, if not favorable to our drug candidates, could hinder or prevent our products’ commercial success. Our ability to commercialize our drug candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors establish appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for our drug candidates and related treatments. As a threshold for coverage and reimbursement, third-party payors generally require that drug products be approved for marketing by the FDA. Third-party payors also are increasingly challenging the effectiveness of and prices charged for medical products and services. We may not be able to obtain third-party coverage or reimbursement for our products in whole or in part. We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and no internal capability to do so. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. We do not anticipate having the resources in the foreseeable future to allocate to the sales and marketing of our proposed products. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to enter into and maintain collaborative relationships for such capabilities, the collaborator’s strategic interest in the products under development and such collaborator’s ability to successfully market and sell any such products. We intend to pursue collaborative arrangements regarding the sale and marketing of our products if and when they are approved; however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to establish or maintain such collaborative arrangements, or if able to do so, that they will have effective sales forces. To the extent that we decide not to, or are unable to, enter into collaborative arrangements with respect to the sales and marketing of our proposed products, significant capital expenditures, management resources and time will be required to establish and develop an in-house marketing and sales force with technical expertise. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to establish or maintain relationships with third-party collaborators or develop in-house sales and distribution capabilities. To the extent that we depend on third parties for marketing and distribution, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of such third parties, and there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful. In addition, there can also be no assurance that we will be able to market and sell our products in the United States or overseas. Health care reform measures may hinder or prevent our drug candidates’ commercial success. The United States and some foreign jurisdictions have enacted or are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Among policy makers and payors in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives. In March 2010, PPACA became law in the United States. PPACA substantially changed and will continue to change the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly affects the pharmaceutical industry. Among the provisions of PPACA, of greatest importance to the pharmaceutical industry are the following: • an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, beginning in 2011; • an increase in the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, retroactive to January 1, 2010, to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively; • a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable branded drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D, beginning in 2011; 23 Table of Contents • extension of manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, effective March 23, 2010; • expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals beginning in April 2010 and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level beginning in 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability; • increase in the number of entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program, effective in January 2010; • new requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians, including reporting any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, as of March 30, 2013, and reporting any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year; • a new annual requirement to report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians, effective April 1, 2012; • a licensure framework for follow-on biologic products; and • a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research. A number of states have challenged the constitutionality of certain provisions of the PPACA, and many of these challenges are still pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions, including the U.S. Supreme Court. Congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the PPACA. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the PPACA, whether to certain provisions or in its entirety. We cannot assure you that the PPACA, as currently enacted or as amended in the future, will not adversely affect our business and financial results, and we cannot predict all of the ways in which future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business. Nevertheless, we anticipate that the PPACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product, and could seriously harm our business. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. Thus, we expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of neratinib (oral), neratinib (intravenous), PB357, and any other products that we may develop, due to the trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. There may be additional pressure by payors and healthcare providers to use generic drugs that contain the active ingredients found in neratinib (oral), neratinib (intravenous), PB357 or any other drug candidates that we may develop. If we fail to successfully secure and maintain adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficulty achieving market acceptance of our products and expected revenue and profitability which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state health care fraud and abuse and false claims laws and regulations. Prosecutions under such laws have increased in recent years and we may become subject to such litigation. If we are unable to comply, or have not fully complied, with such laws, we could face substantial penalties. If we obtain FDA approval for any of our drug candidates and begin commercializing those products in the United States, our operations may be directly, or indirectly through our customers, subject to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and federal False Claims Act. These laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing and education programs. 24 Table of Contents The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willingly soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual or the furnishing or arranging of a good or service for which payment may be made under a federal health care program, such as Medicare and Medicaid. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and, despite a series of narrow safe harbors, prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the health care industry. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal health care programs. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for health care items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing, or causing to be filed, a false claim or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from the federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, commonly known as “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The frequency of filing qui tam actions has increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of pharmaceutical, medical device and other healthcare companies to have to defend False Claims Act actions. When it is determined that an entity has violated the False Claims Act, the entity may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim. Various states have also enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. The recently enacted PPACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and criminal healthcare fraud statutes. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act. We are unable to predict whether we could be subject to actions under any of these or other fraud and abuse laws, or the impact of such actions. If we are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government health care reimbursement programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other drug companies, we may not achieve sufficient product revenue and our business will suffer. The market for our drug candidates is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. If any of our drug candidates receives FDA approval, it will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. Existing or future competing products may provide greater therapeutic convenience or clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than our products, or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. In addition, a large number of companies are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals that target the same diseases and conditions that we are targeting. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we may not achieve sufficient product revenue and our business will suffer. We will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors have oncology compounds that have already been approved or are in development. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in the following: • developing drugs; • undertaking pre-clinical testing and clinical trials; 25 Table of Contents • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; • formulating and manufacturing drugs; and • launching, marketing and selling drugs. Our ability to generate product revenues will be diminished if our drugs sell for inadequate prices or patients are unable to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize our drugs, alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from the following: • government and health administration authorities; • private health maintenance organizations and health insurers; and • other health care payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Health care payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other health care payors increasingly attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for drugs. Even if one of our drug candidates is approved by the FDA, insurance coverage may not be available, and reimbursement levels may be inadequate, to cover such drug. If government and other health care payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for one of our products, once approved, market acceptance of such product could be reduced. We may be exposed to liability claims associated with the use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Our research and development activities may involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, storing, handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and waste products may require us to incur substantial compliance costs that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of one or more key members of our management team could adversely affect our business. Our success and future growth depends to a significant degree on the skills and continued services of our management team, in particular Alan H. Auerbach, our President and CEO. If Mr. Auerbach resigns or becomes unable to continue in his present role and is not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance for Mr. Auerbach. We may be adversely affected by the current economic environment. Our ability to attract and retain collaborators or customers, invest in and grow our business and meet our financial obligations depends on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to numerous factors, including the prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control, such as the rate of unemployment, the number of uninsured persons in the United States and inflationary pressures. We cannot anticipate all the ways in which the current economic climate and financial market conditions could adversely impact our business. 26 Table of Contents We are exposed to risks associated with reduced profitability and the potential financial instability of our collaborators or customers, many of which may be adversely affected by volatile conditions in the financial markets. For example, unemployment and underemployment, and the resultant loss of insurance, may decrease the demand for healthcare services and pharmaceuticals. If fewer patients are seeking medical care because they do not have insurance coverage, our collaboration partners or customers may experience reductions in revenues, profitability and/or cash flow that could lead them to modify, delay or cancel orders for our products once commercialized. If collaboration partners or customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. This, in turn, could adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. In addition, if economic challenges in the United States result in widespread and prolonged unemployment, either regionally or on a national basis, prior to the effectiveness of certain provisions of the PPACA, a substantial number of people may become uninsured or underinsured. To the extent economic challenges result in fewer individuals pursuing or being able to afford our products once commercialized, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with collaborators. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We depend significantly on intellectual property licensed from Pfizer and the termination of this license would significantly harm our business and future prospects. We depend significantly on our license agreement with Pfizer. Our license agreement with Pfizer may be terminated by Pfizer if we materially breach the agreement and fail to cure our breach during an applicable cure period. Our failure to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize neratinib (oral), neratinib (intravenous) and PB357 in the United States and certain other specified countries or to perform our other diligence obligations under the license agreement would constitute a material breach of the license agreement. Pfizer may also terminate the license agreement if we become involved in bankruptcy, receivership, insolvency or similar proceedings. In the event our license agreement with Pfizer is terminated, we will lose all of our rights to develop and commercialize the drug candidates covered by such license, which would significantly harm our business and future prospects. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our intellectual property and potential products, and if we cannot obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property and potential products, we may not be able to successfully market our potential products. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining intellectual property protection for our products, formulations, processes, methods and other technologies. We will only be able to protect these technologies and products from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable intellectual property rights, including patents, cover them, or other market exclusionary rights apply. 27 Table of Contents The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies, like ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents has emerged to date in the United States. The general environment for pharmaceutical patents outside the United States also involves significant uncertainty. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced, or that the scope of these patent rights could provide a sufficient degree of future protection that could permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage with respect to these products and technology. For example, we cannot predict: • the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors, including whether third parties will find ways to make, use, sell, offer to sell or import competitive products without infringing our patents; • if and when patents will issue; • whether or not others will obtain patents claiming inventions similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications; or • whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings in connection with patent rights, which may be costly whether we win or lose. The patents we have licensed may be subject to challenge and possibly invalidated or rendered unenforceable by third parties. Changes in either the patent laws or in the interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. In addition, others may independently develop similar or alternative products and technologies that may be outside the scope of our intellectual property. Furthermore, others may have invented technology claimed by our patents before we or our licensors did so, and they may have filed patents claiming such technology before we did so, weakening our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for such technology. Should third parties obtain patent rights to similar products or technology, this may have an adverse effect on our business. We may also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. Trade secrets, however, are difficult to protect. While we believe that we will use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our own or our strategic partners’ employees, consultants, contractors or advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach. In addition, we cannot ensure that those agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information or prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that consultants or key employees apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our potential products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights in such information, which may not be resolved in our favor. Consultants and key employees that work with our confidential and proprietary technologies are required to assign all intellectual property rights in their discoveries to us. However, these consultants or key employees may terminate their relationship with us, and we cannot preclude them indefinitely from dealing with our competitors. If our trade secrets become known to competitors with greater experience and financial resources, the competitors may copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. If we were to prosecute a claim that a third-party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it could be expensive and time consuming and the outcome could be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets than courts in the United States. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, we would lack any legal or contractual claim to prevent them from using such information, and our business could be harmed. 28 Table of Contents Our ability to commercialize our potential products will depend on our ability to sell such products without infringing the patent or proprietary rights of third parties. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to commercialize our potential products will depend on our ability to sell such products without infringing the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. Third-party intellectual property rights in our field are complicated, and third-party intellectual property rights in our field are continuously evolving. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and this interpretation is not always consistent. Other companies may have or may acquire intellectual property rights that could be enforced against us. If they do so, we may be required to alter our products, formulations, processes, methods or other technologies, obtain a license, assuming one can be obtained, or cease our product-related activities. If our products or technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others, they could bring legal action against us or our licensors or collaborators claiming damages and seeking to enjoin any activities that they believe infringe their intellectual property rights. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods of use either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent or that the patent claims are invalid or unenforceable, and we may not be able to do this. Proving the invalidity of a patent is particularly difficult in the United States, since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. If we are found to infringe a third-party patent, we may need to cease the commercial sale of our products. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications unknown to us or reissue applications that may later result in issued patents upon which our products or technologies may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are unaware that our products or technologies may infringe. In addition, if third parties file patent applications or obtain patents claiming products or technologies also claimed by us in pending applications or issued patents, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, to determine priority of invention. If third parties file oppositions in foreign countries, we may also have to participate in opposition proceedings in foreign tribunals to defend the patentability of our filed foreign patent applications. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Additionally, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation may have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. If a third party claims that we infringe its intellectual property rights, it could cause our business to suffer in a number of ways, including: • we may become involved in time-consuming and expensive litigation, even if the claim is without merit, the third party’s patent is ultimately invalid or unenforceable, or we are ultimately found to have not infringed; • we may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technologies infringe upon a third party’s patent; • we may be ordered by a court to stop making, selling or licensing our products or technologies without a license from a patent holder, and such license may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents; and • we may have to redesign our products so that they do not infringe upon others’ patent rights, which may not be possible or could require substantial investment and/or time. If any of these events occur, our business could suffer and the market price of our common stock may decline. 29 Table of Contents As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other companies in these industries, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may become subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers, although no such claims are pending. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we successfully defend any such claims, we may incur substantial costs in such defense, and our management may be distracted by these claims. Risks Related to Owning our Common Stock There is currently no market for our common stock and there can be no assurance that any market will ever develop. You may therefore be unable to re-sell shares of our common stock at times and prices that you believe are appropriate. Our common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange, an over-the-counter market or any other exchange. Therefore, there is no trading market, active or otherwise, for our common stock and our common stock may never be included for trading on any stock exchange, automated quotation system or any over-the-counter market. Accordingly, our common stock is highly illiquid and you will likely experience difficulty in re-selling such shares at times and prices that you may desire. Our common stock may not be eligible for listing or quotation on any securities exchange. We do not currently meet the initial quantitative listing standards of any national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet the initial listing standards of any national securities exchange, or, if we do meet such initial listing standards, that we will be able to maintain any such listing. Further, the national securities exchanges have adopted so-called “seasoning” rules that require that we meet certain requirements, including prescribed periods of time trading over-the-counter and minimum filings of periodic reports with the SEC, before we are eligible to apply for listing on such national securities exchanges. We have contacted an authorized market maker for an over-the-counter quotation system for sponsorship of our common stock, but we cannot guarantee that our common stock will be listed and quoted for sale. Even if our common stock is quoted for sale on an over-the-counter quotation system, buyers may be insufficient in numbers to allow for a robust market and it may prove impossible to sell your shares. In addition, an investor may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. In addition, if we fail to meet the criteria set forth in SEC regulations, various requirements would be imposed by law on broker-dealers who sell our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such regulations may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect its liquidity. This would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. The price of our common stock could be subject to volatility related or unrelated to our operations. If a market for our common stock develops, its market price could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including market perception of our ability to meet our growth projections and expectations, quarterly operating results of other companies in the same industry, trading volume in our common stock, changes in general conditions in the economy and the financial markets or other developments affecting our business and the business of others in our industry. In addition, the stock market itself is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons related and unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. The designation of our common stock as a “penny stock” would limit the liquidity of our common stock. Our common stock may be deemed a “penny stock” (as that term is defined under Rule 3a51-1 of the Exchange Act) in any market that may develop in the future. Generally, a “penny stock” is a common stock that 30 Table of Contents is not listed on a securities exchange and trades for less than $5.00 a share. Prices often are not available to buyers and sellers and the market may be very limited. Penny stocks in start-up companies are among the riskiest equity investments. Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk-disclosure document prepared by the SEC. The document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny stock market. A broker must also provide purchasers with bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation and make a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and obtain the purchaser’s written agreement to the purchase. Many brokers choose not to participate in penny stock transactions. Because of the penny stock rules, there may be less trading activity in penny stocks in any market that develops for our common stock in the future and stockholders are likely to have difficulty selling their shares. Issuance of stock to fund our operations may dilute your investment and reduce your equity interest. We may need to raise capital in the future to fund the development of our drug candidates or for other purposes. Any equity financing may have significant dilutive effect to stockholders and a material decrease in our stockholders’ equity interest in us. Equity financing, if obtained, could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. At its sole discretion, our board of directors may issue additional securities without seeking stockholder approval, and we do not know when we will need additional capital or, if we do, whether it will be available to us. Upon the exercise of any of our outstanding warrants, holders of our common stock may experience immediate dilution and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. In connection with the Merger, we assumed the warrants issued by Puma in a private placement to certain investors that provides such investors with anti-dilution protection in regard to certain issuances. The warrants are exercisable only if we sell securities at a price below $3.75 per share on or prior to the date on which shares of our common stock are first quoted in an over-the-counter market or listed for quotation on any national securities exchange or trading system. The warrants automatically terminate ten days after our common stock is quoted on an over-the-counter market or listed for quotation on a national securities exchange or trading system if we have not previously sold securities for less than $3.75 per share. Otherwise, the warrants have a ten-year term and an exercise price of $0.01 per share. If triggered, each warrant becomes exercisable for the number of shares of our common stock as would equal the difference between (i) the number of shares purchased by the warrant holder in Puma’s private placement and (ii) the number of shares that could have been purchased by such holder in the private placement at a purchase price equal to the lowest price associated with any subsequent issuance of our common stock. In connection with the Merger, we assumed a warrant issued to Mr. Auerbach by the former Puma entity. This warrant is exercisable only in the event that we conduct an additional offering of our securities resulting in gross cash proceeds to us of at least $15 million, excluding certain types of financings that occur within a specified time period after the closing of the Merger. This warrant has a ten-year term, an exercise price equal to the price paid per share in such additional offering, and is exercisable for the number of shares of our common stock as would be necessary for Mr. Auerbach to maintain, as calculated under the terms of the warrant, ownership of 20% of our outstanding shares of common stock after such additional offering. If any of our outstanding warrants are exercised for shares of our common stock, our stockholders may experience immediate dilution and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We will incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could harm our operating results. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We will also incur costs associated with current corporate governance requirements, including requirements under Section 404 and other provisions of the 31 Table of Contents Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC or any stock exchange or inter-dealer quotations system on which our common stock may be listed in the future. The expenses incurred by public companies for reporting and corporate governance purposes have increased dramatically in recent years. We expect these rules and regulations to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We are unable to currently estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. We also expect that these new rules and regulations may make it difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and if we are able to obtain such insurance, we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage available to privately-held companies. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires public companies to conduct an annual review and evaluation of their internal controls and attestations of the effectiveness of internal controls by independent auditors. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that will need to be evaluated frequently. Our failure to maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls in accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Because the Merger was a reverse merger, we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms. Additional risks may exist as a result of our becoming a public reporting company through a “reverse merger.” Certain SEC rules are more restrictive when applied to reverse merger companies, such as the ability of stockholders to re-sell their shares of common stock pursuant to Rule 144. In addition, securities analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of our capital stock or business. Because we became a public reporting operating company through a reverse merger, there is no incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock. We cannot assure you that brokerage firms will want to provide analyst coverage of our capital stock or business in the future. The resale of shares covered by a registration statement could adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the public market, should one develop, which result would in turn negatively affect our ability to raise additional equity capital. The sale, or availability for sale, of our common stock in the public market may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and may impair our ability to raise additional capital by selling equity or equity-linked securities. Pursuant to the terms of a registration rights agreement, as amended, between us and certain of our stockholders, we filed, at our expense, a registration statement, which was declared effective by the SEC on February 14, 2012, registering the resale of 16,000,000 shares of our common stock. The resale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price for our common stock and make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares of our common stock at times and prices that such investors feel are appropriate. Furthermore, we expect that, because there are a large number of shares registered pursuant to the resale registration statement, the selling 32 Table of Contents stockholders identified in such registration statement will continue to offer shares covered by such registration statement for a significant period of time, the precise duration of which cannot be predicted. Accordingly, the adverse market and price pressures resulting from offerings pursuant to the registration statement may continue for an extended period of time and continued negative pressure on the market price of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise additional equity capital. If securities or industry analysts do not publish, or cease publishing, research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. If a trading market for our common stock develops, the trading market for our common stock will be influenced by whether industry or securities analysts publish research and reports about us, our business, our market or our competitors and, if any analysts do publish such reports, what they publish in those reports. We may not obtain analyst coverage in the future. Any analysts that do cover us may make adverse recommendations regarding our stock, adversely change their recommendations from time to time, and/or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors. If any analyst who may cover us in the future were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, or if analysts fail to cover us or publish reports about us at all, we could lose, or never gain, visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, you should not rely on an investment in our securities if you require dividend income. Capital appreciation, if any, of our shares may be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Moreover, you may not be able to re-sell your shares in the Company at or above the price you paid for them. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 