Risk Factors An investment in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with the financial and other information contained in this annual report, before you decide to buy our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. In this case, the trading price of our ordinary shares would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses, may incur future losses and may not achieve profitability. We have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since we commenced operations in 1997. We incurred net losses of $11.0 million in 2009, $5.0 million in 2008 and $3.2 million in 2007. As of December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was $104.3 million. The increase in our net loss was due primarily to a decrease in revenues resulting from the global financial crisis and economic downturn impacting spending on our products which also included a bad debt of $1.7 million from one customer that filed a petition for relief under Chapter 11 in 2009. Our losses could continue for the next several years as we expand our sales and marketing activities, continue to invest in research and development, expand our general and administrative operations and incur additional costs related to being a public company. We may not generate sufficient revenues in the future to achieve or maintain profitability. 2 The global financial crisis and economic downturn has had a negative impact on our revenues and results of operations. We cannot predict with certainty the impact that these continuing events will have on our future results of operation. The recent financial market crisis led to a weakening of the global economic environment that adversely impacted many of our customers. As a result, during the first half of 2009, we experienced a significant lengthening of our sales cycles and overall reduced purchasing by our customers leading to a decline in revenues in 2009 compared to 2008. The continuation of these events in the financial markets and any further deterioration in market conditions may impact our customers’ decisions to purchase our products and adversely impact our revenues. The credit risk presented by our customers increased as a result of market conditions making it more difficult to collect our accounts receivable in full or on a timely basis. For example, in 2009, one of our customers entered Chapter 11 proceedings in the United States, causing us to incur a $1.7 million charge for a bad debt owed by that customer. In addition, we may fail to achieve our annual guidance due to the challenge of providing guidance under current market conditions. In addition, legislators or regulators may impose new and potentially onerous regulations on the financial services industry in response to the global financial crisis. The scope and impact of these new regulations on our customers are still hard to assess, but they could negatively impact our customers' willingness to invest in high performance computing fabrics such our solutions and result in a negative impact on our sales in this vertical market. Our revenues and prospects may be harmed if the adoption rate of scale-out computing architecture does not continue to grow or if an alternative architecture is introduced. Our InfiniBand and Ethernet solutions leverage the performance and latency benefits of scale-out computing architecture and provide interconnect functionality for data center environments that rely on industry-standard server and storage units. End-customers that purchase information technology, or IT, products and services from server vendors, such as our original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customers, must find scale-out computing to be a compelling solution to meet their scale-out computing needs. Scale-out computing may fail to compete effectively with proprietary architectures such as SMP (Symmetric Multi-Processing), some of which are well established. If an alternative architecture to scale-out computing is developed, our revenues and prospects may be harmed. Furthermore, we may be required to incur substantial costs to modify our existing products to remain competitive with new or existing architectures, and we cannot provide any assurance that we will succeed in doing so. We may experience difficulties or delays in the introduction of our new family of scale-out Ethernet switching and stand-alone software products. We recently announced a new family of scale-out 10 Gigabit, or 10Gb, Ethernet products, which will provide users with more simplified management functions than traditional 10Gb Ethernet fabrics. We also announced during 2009 new stand-alone software products such as Unified Fabric Manager™ software (UFM) and Voltaire Messaging Accelerator™ software (VMA). We may not be successful in developing and marketing these new product families, because we have limited experience selling Ethernet switching and stand-alone software products. Furthermore, our new product families may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance for many reasons, including delays in releasing our new products, failure to accurately predict market demands, defects, errors or failures, and introduction of competing products by our competitors. In addition, the success of these products also depends on the success and continued growth of the scale-out computing Ethernet platform in the marketplace. Our scale-out Ethernet products will not be successful if new technology arises that is superior to our scale-out Ethernet platform. A small number of our OEM customers currently account for a large portion of our revenues, and the loss of one or more of these OEM customers, or a significant decrease or delay in sales to any of these OEM customers, could reduce our revenues significantly. We market and sell our products to end-customers primarily through our OEM customers who integrate our solutions into their product offerings. To date, we have derived a substantial portion of our revenues from a small number of OEM customers. The following table sets forth the percentage of our revenues derived from OEM customers which individually accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in any fiscal year: Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Hewlett-Packard Company 19 % 25 % 24 % International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 13 23 27 SGI (formerly: Rackable, Inc.) 11 * * Total 43 % 48 % 51 % * Less then 10%. Not included in the total. We anticipate that a large portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from sales to a small number of OEM customers in the future. Our sales to our OEM customers are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our relationships with our OEM customers are generally governed by non-exclusive agreements that typically have an initial term of one to three years and automatically renew for successive one year terms, have no minimum sales commitments and do not prohibit our OEM customers from offering products and services that compete with our products. In addition, our agreements typically require us to deliver our products to our OEM customers within 30 to 90 days from the time we receive the order, however, in many cases they may request faster delivery. A failure by us to meet product delivery deadlines may damage our relationship with our OEM customers and harm our market position. The size of purchases by our OEM customers typically fluctuates from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year, and may continue to fluctuate in the future, which may affect our quarterly and annual results of operations. 3 In addition, our competitors may provide incentives to our existing and potential OEM customers to use or purchase their products and services or to prevent or reduce sales of our solutions. Some of our OEM customers also possess significant resources and advanced technical capabilities and may, either independently or jointly with our competitors, develop and market products and related services that replace or compete with our solutions. If either of these were to occur, our OEM customers may discontinue marketing and distributing our solutions. Therefore, if any of our OEM customers reduces or cancels its purchases from us, or terminates its agreement with us for any reason, and we are unable to replace the lost revenues with sales to an alternate OEM customer, it would have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We may be unable to compete effectively with other companies in our market that offer, or may in the future offer, competing products. We compete in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive market. Our scale-out computing InfiniBand and Ethernet platforms currently address the high performance computing, or HPC, interconnect, the 10Gb Ethernet switching and the storage switching end-markets. These markets are characterized by continuous technological change and customer demand for high performance products. Our current principal competitor for InfiniBand switching products is QLogic Corporation, a provider of Fibre Channel-based and InfiniBand-based solutions. We also compete with Cisco Systems, Inc., which is a significant supplier of Ethernet and Fibre Channel-based solutions and has traditionally been recognized as the dominant supplier for enterprises. Other competitors for the Ethernet switching products include Juniper Networks, Inc. and Brocade Communications Systems, Inc. These companies are substantially larger than we are and have significantly greater brand recognition and resources, which may allow them to respond more quickly to changes in customer requirements or to new or emerging technologies. In addition, Mellanox, the sole supplier of the InfiniBand application-specific integrated circuits, or ASIC, which is the main component used in our InfinBand switching platforms, began competing with us in 2008 by marketing and selling InfiniBand switch products. Mellanox may be able to compete with us more aggressively than other competitors since as a sole supplier of the ASIC it may be able to offer more competitive pricing for its switches to customers than we may offer. In addition, QLogic recently commenced manufacturing ASIC for its own switches and may also be able to compete with us more aggressively on price as a self supplier of the ASIC. We compete with providers of 10 Gigabit Ethernet and proprietary high-performance scale-out computing interconnect solutions. The entry of new competitors into our market and acquisitions of our existing competitors by companies with either significant resources, better brand recognition, cost advantages or established relationships with our end-customers, for example our OEM customers, could result in increased competition and harm our business. Increased competition may cause us to make competitive price reductions thereby reducing our gross margins and market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or result of operations. We depend significantly on our OEM customers to market, sell, install and provide initial and escalation level technical support for our products, and if any of these OEMs fails to adequately perform, then our sales may suffer. Our OEM customers are responsible for integrating our solutions into their products and providing first call and second escalation service and support for products incorporating our solutions. As a result, we depend on the ability of our OEM customers to market, sell and service our solutions successfully to end-customers and to provide adequate customer support. Any failure by our OEM customers to provide adequate support to end-customers could result in customer dissatisfaction with us or our solutions, which could result in a loss of an end-customer, harm our reputation and delay or limit market acceptance of our solutions. In addition, if any significant OEM customer should fail, individually or in the aggregate, to perform as an end-customer expects, our sales may suffer. We cannot provide any assurance that our OEM customers will market our solutions effectively, receive and fulfill end-customer orders for our solutions on a timely basis or continue to devote adequate resources to support the sales, marketing and technical support of our products. We may not be able to achieve further growth in our gross margins or maintain our existing gross margins. Our annual gross margins increased to 52% in 2009 from 50% in 2008 and from 43% in 2007. Our gross margins improved primarily due to reductions in costs of materials coupled with a favorable higher or improved margin product mix, such as our 20 Gigabit Infiniband switches, software and support services. Our strategy is to maintain and increase our gross margins in the future through increased sales of our Ethernet switches and our stand-alone software products which carry higher gross margins, while preserving our market share of InfiniBand switches. We may not succeed in this strategy because we are less experienced and knowledgeable in sales of Ethernet and stand-alone software products. Price erosion resulting from increased competition or the depressed economic environment may reduce our average selling prices and consequently, our gross margins. If we are unable to continue to achieve economies of scale or maintain or increase sales of higher margin products or if we become subject to significant price erosion, we may not be able to maintain our gross margins. 4 Our reliance on Mellanox Technologies Ltd. and other limited-source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demands for our products in a timely manner or within our budget. We obtain the application-specific integrated circuit, or ASIC, the main component used in our Grid DirectorTM director-class switches and Grid SwitchTM edge switches, from Mellanox Technologies Ltd., which is currently the only manufacturer for third party sales of this chip. Our InfiniBand switch products accounted for 70% of our revenues in 2009 and 76% of our revenues in 2008. We entered into a non-exclusive agreement with Mellanox, dated as of October 7, 2005, for an initial period of two years, which automatically renews for successive one-year periods unless one party notifies the other party within 90 days prior to each annual termination date that it does not wish to renew the agreement. Standard lead-times under the agreement may be changed at Mellanox’s sole discretion upon 30-days prior written notice. In addition, Mellanox has the right to increase the ASIC purchase price upon 30-days prior notice, to alter the ASIC upon 120-days prior notice, and to discontinue production of the ASIC upon six-month prior notice. During a period of six months after our receipt of a notice of discontinuance from Mellanox, we may purchase from Mellanox such commercially reasonable quantity of the discontinued product as we deem reasonably necessary for our future requirements. Mellanox is obligated to continue to provide us the discontinued product and to facilitate our transition to new products for a period not to exceed nine months following our receipt of the notice of discontinuance. If Mellanox terminates our arrangement with them, or amends the arrangement in a manner detrimental to us, we may experience delays in production and our business may be adversely affected. In addition, in the event that Mellanox is unable or unwilling to supply the ASIC on a timely basis or in the quantities that we require, we would be unable to manufacture our InfiniBand switch products without incurring significant development and design costs. There is currently no alternative supplier for the ASIC produced by Mellanox. If an alternative supplier of the ASIC were to develop in the future, we would likely be forced to make changes to our switching products to ensure interoperability with the new ASIC. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully modify our switches to accommodate any alternate technology or any change in Mellanox’s product. As a result, a failure by Mellanox to supply the ASIC would materially adversely affect our business. In addition, we have designed our products to incorporate several specific components, such as our Ethernet ASIC, connectors and backplanes, printed circuit boards, chassis and mechanical parts, power supplies and processor boards. We purchase these components from industry suppliers, but do not always have long-term supply contracts with these suppliers. We believe that substitute components are available from alternate sources; however, any change in these components would require us to qualify a new supplier’s components for inclusion in our products which would likely require significant engineering changes and could take a number of months to complete. We currently depend on outside contract manufacturers to manufacture and warehouse our products, and if they experience delays, disruptions, quality control problems or a loss in capacity, it could materially adversely affect our operating results. We subcontract the manufacturing, assembly and testing for our products to primarily two outside contract manufacturers. These functions are performed primarily by two contract manufacturers, Sanmina-SCI Corporation and Zicon Ltd. These contract manufacturers provide us with full turn-key manufacturing and testing services. Sanmina-SCI manufactures our 24 port Grid Director Switch™ 9024 and our recently released 36 port (DDR and QDR) Grid Director™ Switches 2036 and 4036. Zicon manufactures all modules and mechanics related to our director class switches and their gateway modules for connecting to Ethernet and Fibre Channel. If any of these contract manufacturers experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing our products, including insufficient inventory or supply of components, or if we fail to effectively manage the relationship with any of these subcontractors, shipments of products to our customers may be delayed, which could have a material adverse effect on our relationships with our customers and end-customers. We currently have a long-term supply contract with Zicon and a letter agreement with Sanmina-SCI. Unless we enter into a long-term supply contract with Sanmina-SCI, they will not be obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. None of our contract manufacturers has provided contractual assurances to us that adequate capacity will be available to us to meet future demands for our products. Sanmina-SCI’s facilities are located in Lod, Israel and Zicon’s facilities are located in Petach Tikva, Israel. In the event that the facilities of any of our contract manufacturers are damaged for any reason or they experience financial distress due to the current economic downturn, our ability to deliver products to customers could be materially adversely affected. See also “— Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel — Conditions in Israel could adversely affect our business.” Our solutions are highly technical, and any undetected software or hardware errors in our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Due to the complexity of our solutions and variations among customers’ computing environments and data centers, we may not detect product defects until our products are fully deployed in our customers’ high performance computing environments and data centers. Regardless of whether warranty coverage exists for a product, we may be required to dedicate significant technical resources to resolving any defects. If we encounter significant product problems, we could experience, among other things, loss of customers, cancellation of product orders, increased costs, delays in recognizing revenue and damage to our reputation. Some of our customers traditionally demand early delivery of products containing our most advanced technology prior to completion of our rollout. 5 In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention from normal business operations. If our business liability insurance is inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition could be harmed. We have limited visibility into end-customer demand for our solutions, which introduces uncertainty into our manufacturing forecasts and business planning, and could negatively impact our financial results. Our business is subject to uncertainty because of our limited visibility into end-customers’ future buying patterns and demands, which poses a challenge for us in predicting the amount and timing of our revenue. Sales of our solutions are made on the basis of purchase orders, rather than long-term purchase commitments. Historically, we have received a substantial portion of each quarter’s sales orders during the last month of the quarter. Orders that we expected during a particular quarter may be delayed for reasons outside of our control, which can cause our revenues for the entire quarter to fall below expected levels. In addition, we place orders with our suppliers and contract manufacturers based on forecasts of our OEM customers’ demand, which are based on numerous assumptions, each of which may introduce variability and error into our estimates. This process requires us to make multiple demand forecast assumptions with respect to both our OEM customers’ and end-customers’ demands. Because the lead time for fulfilling an order from an OEM customer is typically one to two months, while the lead-time to order certain of the components and assemble our products can be three to four months, forecasts of demand for our products must be made in advance of customer orders. In addition, we base business decisions regarding our growth on our forecasts of end-customer demand. Since a portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government entities, we also face the risks of funding reductions or delays. Government entities may have legal rights to terminate contracts with our OEMs for convenience. As we grow, anticipating end-customer demand may become increasingly challenging. If we overestimate end-customer demand, we may order more inventory of components and allocate more resources to manufacturing products than is necessary. In the event that we are unable to sell our finished products or in the event that our inventory of components becomes obsolete, we may be required to incur significant charges and write-offs related to our inventory. This could have an adverse affect on our balance sheet and results of operations. Conversely, if we underestimate end-customer demand, we could forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our end-customer relationships. If we fail to develop new products or enhance the performance of our existing solutions with improved technologies to meet rapid technological change and market demands in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business will suffer. We invest heavily in advancing our technology and developing new solutions to keep pace with rapid changes in customer demand and with our competitors’ efforts to advance their technology. In particular, we must satisfy demand for improved computing performance. We are currently engaged in the development process for next generation solutions in order to meet these demands. The development process for these advancements is lengthy and requires us to accurately anticipate technological innovations and market trends. Developing and enhancing these products can be time-consuming, costly and complex. Successful product design, development and introduction on a timely basis require that we: • design innovative and performance-enhancing features that differentiate our solutions from those of our competitors; • identify emerging technological trends in our target markets; • maintain effective sales and marketing strategies; • respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others; and • adjust to changing market conditions quickly and cost-effectively. We may be unable to successfully develop additional next-generation products or product enhancements. In addition, we cannot provide any assurance that new products or enhancements will be completed in a timely manner. Delays in completing the development and introduction of products that address new applications or markets could cause our sales to decline and our operating loss to increase. Furthermore, we may make substantial investments in the research and development of new products that are then not accepted by the market. If we fail to address effectively the changing demands of customers and to develop the required enhancements to our products in order to keep pace with advances in technology, our business and revenues will be adversely affected. In addition, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to obtain certification, as required, for our existing or newly developed products by national regulators. If we fail to manage our future growth effectively, we may not be able to market and sell our products and services successfully. We have expanded our operations significantly since we began offering scale-out computing solutions in 2003 and anticipate that further expansion will be required. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our management’s ability to plan and direct our expansion and growth successfully, including training sales personnel to become productive and generate revenue, forecasting revenue, controlling expenses, implementing and enhancing infrastructure, addressing new markets and expanding international operations and maintaining and expanding our research and development efforts. A failure to manage our growth effectively could materially and adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and services. In addition, in order to accommodate future growth, our contract manufacturers may need to increase their manufacturing capacity. If our contract manufacturers are unable to maintain the required manufacturing capacity to meet our requirements, the demand for our products may exceed their capacity, which could result in a backlog of orders and harm our ability to meet our customers’ timing demands. 6 Fluctuations in our revenues and operating results on a quarterly and annual basis could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and have fluctuated in the past, and may fluctuate in the future, from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. It is possible that our operating results in some quarters and years will be below market expectations. This may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, such as the economic volatility or the delayed release of newly developed technologies in server equipment both of which we experienced during 2009. In particular, we have limited exposure to end-customer demand upon which we predict future sales of our solutions. In limited circumstances, we do not recognize revenue upon a sale to an OEM or other reseller customer because the sale by the channel customer to the end-customer is subject to performance of an acceptance test by the end-customer. As a result, we may experience quarterly fluctuations in revenues dependent on the timing of the end-customer acceptance. Additional factors that may affect our quarterly and annual operating results include: • the loss of one or more of our OEM customers, or a significant reduction or postponement of orders from our customers; • our customers’ sales outlooks, purchasing patterns and inventory levels based on end-customer demands and general economic conditions; • our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new or enhanced products in a timely manner; • product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions; • changes in the relative sales mix of our products; • changes in our cost of finished products; • our inability to immediately establish vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, for the support component of a newly released product, which could result in deferral of revenue from the entire transaction until VSOE is established (See “— Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Revenue Recognition.”); • the potential loss of key manufacturer and supplier relationships; and • the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of other components used in our OEM customers’ products. The international nature of our business exposes us to financial and regulatory risks, and we may have difficulty protecting our intellectual property in some foreign countries. To date, we have derived a significant portion of our revenues from OEMs and other customers located outside the United States, principally in Europe, which accounted for 23% of our revenues in 2009 and 22% of our revenues in 2008, and the Asia-Pacific region and Japan, which accounted for 26% of our revenues in 2009 and 27% of our revenues in 2008. The international nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks, including the following: • the difficulty of managing and staffing multiple offices, which we currently maintain in North America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia-Pacific, and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • difficulties in enforcing contracts and implementing our accounts receivable function, which is currently centralized and introduces translation, proximity and cultural challenges; • political and economic instability, particularly in markets such as Latin America, Asia and other emerging markets; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries where we may seek to expand our sales in the future, such as China and the Russian Federation; • changes in regulatory requirements, such as the regulations recently adopted by the European Union regarding recycling of, and prohibition of hazardous substances in, electrical and electronic equipment; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; and • imposition of or increases in tariffs. As we expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully protect our technology through the issuance and enforcement of patents and other means of protection, our business could be harmed significantly. Our ability to prevent competitors from gaining access to our technology is essential to our success. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, we may lose an important advantage in the markets in which we compete. Trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as our internal confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, are at the core of our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. While we plan to protect our intellectual property with, among other things, patent protection, there can be no assurance that: • current or future U.S. or foreign patents applications will be approved; 7 • our issued patents will protect our intellectual property and not be held invalid or unenforceable if challenged by third parties via litigation or administrative proceeding; • we will obtain a favorable outcome if we assert our intellectual property rights against third parties; • we will succeed in protecting our technology adequately in all key jurisdictions in which we or our competitors operate; • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business; or • others will not independently develop similar or competing products or methods, or design around any patents that may be issued to us. In addition, our intellectual property is also used in a large number of foreign countries. Effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, such as China and the Russian Federation. As a result, it may be difficult for us to protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. We expect this to become a greater problem for us as our OEM customers increase their manufacturing presence in countries that provide less protection for intellectual property. Litigation and administrative proceedings are inherently uncertain and divert resources from other business priorities. We may not be able to obtain positive results and may spend considerable resources in our efforts to defend and protect our intellectual property. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection vary from one jurisdiction to another and may not be attainable in every country in which our products are available. Our failure to obtain patents, including with claims of a scope necessary to cover our technology, or the invalidation of our patents, may weaken our competitive position and may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition to patent protection, we customarily require our employees and subcontractors to execute confidentiality agreements or agree to confidentiality undertakings when their relationships begin with us. Typically, our employment contracts also include assignment of intellectual property rights for inventions developed by employees, and non-disclosure of confidential information and non-compete clauses for twelve months following termination of an employee’s employment with us. We cannot provide any assurance that the terms of these agreements are being observed and will be observed in the future. Because our product designs and software are stored electronically and thus are highly portable, we attempt to reduce the portability of our designs and software by physically protecting our servers through the use of closed networks, which prevent external access to our servers. We cannot be certain, however, that such protection will adequately deter individuals or groups from wrongful access to our technology. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary information will be sufficient. In addition, to protect our intellectual property, we may become involved in litigation, which could result in substantial expenses, divert the attention of management, cause significant delays, materially disrupt the conduct of our business or adversely affect our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Our use of open source and third-party software could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions. We incorporate open source software into our switches, switch chassis and software products, such as GNU Lesser Public License (LGPL), the BSD License, MIT license and others. Open source software is accessible, usable and modifiable by anyone, provided that users and modifiers abide by certain licensing requirements. The original developers of the open source code provide no warranties on such code. For example, our products incorporate open source code such as an embedded Linux-based operating system. The Linux-based operating system has been developed under a license (known as a General Public License), which permits it to be liberally copied, modified and distributed. Under certain conditions, the use of some open source code to create derivative code may obligate us to make the resulting derivative code available to others at no cost. The circumstances under which our use of open source code would compel us to offer derivative code at no cost are subject to varying interpretations. While we monitor our use of open source code in an effort to avoid situations that would require us to make parts of our core proprietary technology freely available as open source code, we cannot guarantee that such circumstances will not occur or that a court would not conclude that, under a different interpretation of an open source license, certain of our core technology must be made available as open source code. The use of such open source code may also ultimately require us to take remedial action, such as replacing certain code used in our products, paying a royalty to use some open source code, making certain proprietary source code available to others or discontinuing certain products, any of which may divert resources away from our development efforts. The license under which we licensed the embedded Linux-based operating system is currently the subject of litigation in the case of The SCO Group, Inc. v. International Business Machines Corp., pending in the United States District Court for the District of Utah. SCO filed its complaint in 2003 to which IBM asserted counterclaims. The parties had briefed certain issues for summary judgment, and other issues were being argued when SCO filed for bankruptcy in September 2007. The Court administratively closed the case, which could be reopened upon a motion from either party. In its complaint, SCO alleged that certain versions of the Linux operating system contributed by IBM contain unauthorized UNIX code or derivative works of UNIX code, which SCO claims it owns. If the court were to rule in SCO’s favor and find, for example, that Linux-based products, or significant portions of them, may not be liberally copied, modified or distributed, we may have to modify our products and/or seek a license to use the code in question, which may or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, and this could materially adversely affect our business. Regardless of the merit of SCO’s allegations, uncertainty concerning SCO’s allegations could adversely affect our products and customer relationships. 8 In addition, the ownership of the rights underlying SCO’s claims against IBM is also subject to litigation with Novell in The SCO Group, Inc. v. Novell, Inc., (“SCO II”) before the United States District Court for the District of Utah. The court handling SCO’s bankruptcy proceeding has already indicated that the outcome of SCO II and any right Novell might possess was essential to the administration of the bankruptcy matter. In SCO II, Novell claimed ownership in the underlying copyrights and the ability to force SCO to waive its claims against IBM. The District Court granted summary judgment in Novell’s favor, but that decision was reversed in part by the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, which ordered that the matter should be decided by way of a jury trial. The dispute between SCO and Novell is scheduled for trial in 2010. If the court were to rule in SCO’s favor, then the possibility remains that SCO would be able to reopen its case against IBM at some point in the future. We may also find that we need to incorporate certain proprietary third-party technologies, including software programs, into our products in the future. Licenses to relevant third-party technology may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Therefore, we could face delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed and integrated into our current products. Such delays could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial conditions. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties that, regardless of merit, could result in litigation, and our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert that our products and other intellectual property infringe, or may infringe their proprietary rights. Any such claims, regardless of merit, could result in litigation, which could result in substantial expenses, divert the attention of management, cause significant delays and materially disrupt the conduct of our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a consequence of such claims, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award, develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty-bearing licensing agreements, stop selling our products or re-brand our products. If it appears necessary, we may seek to license intellectual property that we are alleged to infringe. Such licensing agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Litigation is inherently uncertain and any adverse decision could result in a loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from others and otherwise negatively affect our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to retain our executive officers and attract and retain other skilled employees, we may not be able to timely develop, sell or support our products. Our success depends in large part on the continued contribution of our research and development and sales and marketing teams, as well as our management. In particular, we depend on the continued service of Miron (Ronnie) Kenneth, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman. We do not carry key man life insurance for any of our management. We have entered into employment agreements with all of our executive officers, including Mr. Kenneth. Our employment agreements do not specify a minimum employment term, nor do they guarantee the continued service of our executive officers. In addition, the enforceability of covenants not to compete in Israel and the United States is subject to limitations and may not be enforceable at all. If our business continues to grow, we will need to add to our research and development and sales and marketing teams, as well as to members of management in order to manage our growth. The process of hiring, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operation is a lengthy and expensive one. The market for qualified personnel is very competitive because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills, sales skills and understanding of our products and technology. This is particularly true in Israel where competition for qualified personnel is intense due to the density of technology companies. Our failure to hire and retain qualified personnel could cause our revenues to decline and impair our ability to meet our research and development and sales objectives. Our business is subject to increasingly complex environmental legislation that may increase our costs and the risk of noncompliance. We face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the material composition of many of our products. For instance, the European Union has adopted certain directives to facilitate the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment sold in the European Union, including the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment that restricts the use of lead, mercury and certain other substances in electrical and electronic products placed on the market in the European Union after July 1, 2006. The European Union has also approved a directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, which requires that all electrical and electronic equipment placed for sale in the European Union be appropriately labeled regarding waste disposal and contains other obligations regarding the collection and recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment. In connection with our compliance with these and other environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs, including research and development costs and costs associated with assuring the supply of compliant components from our suppliers. Similar laws and regulations have been proposed or may be enacted in other regions in which we do business. Other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our solutions to utilize components that are compatible with these regulations. Such reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us or disrupt our operations or logistics. 9 Our international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We derive all our revenues in U.S. dollars, but a significant portion of our expenses were denominated in New Israeli Shekels (“NIS”) and to a significantly lesser extent in euros and Japanese yen. Our NIS-denominated expenses consist principally of salaries, building leases and related personnel expenses. We anticipate that a material portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in NIS. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the NIS, there will be a negative impact on our profit margins. The NIS appreciation against the U.S. dollar amounted to 9.0% in 2007, 1.1% in 2008 and 0.7% in 2009. While we currently hedge a significant portion of our currency exposure from expenses over a 12-month rolling forecast through financial derivatives, any weakening of our functional currency, the U.S. dollar, against the NIS will increase our Israeli salary and leasing expenses on the unhedged portion. In addition, if we wish to maintain the dollar-denominated value of our products in non-U.S. markets, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or default on payment. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our shareholders, reduce our financial resources and result in increased expenditures. In the future, we may acquire other businesses, products or technologies. We have not made any acquisitions to date, and our ability to make acquisitions is therefore unproven. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, or these acquisitions may be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. In addition, any acquisitions that we make could pose challenges in integrating personnel, technologies and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from such businesses. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and adversely impact our business. We may not be able to enforce employees’ covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. It is our practice to have our employees and subcontractors sign non-compete agreements. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a period of time, typically limited to twelve months following the end of employment. Under the laws of many jurisdictions, we may be unable to enforce these agreements, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from acquiring the expertise our former employees acquired while working for us. If we cannot enforce our employees’ non-compete agreements, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report accurately our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our ordinary shares. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting and have our independent registered public accounting firm annually attest to our internal control over financial reporting. Under the SEC’s new rules regarding the implementation of Section 404, we are required to provide a management report on internal control over financial reporting in connection with this Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ending December 31, 2009. As required by Section 404, we will provide both a management report and an independent registered public accounting firm attestation report on internal controls over financial reporting in connection with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ending December 31, 2010. We have prepared for compliance with Section 404 by strengthening, assessing and testing our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our report. However, the continuous process of strengthening our internal controls over financial reporting and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming and requires significant management attention. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we will maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting. Furthermore, as we grow our business, our internal controls may become more complex and may require significantly more resources to ensure their effectiveness. Failure to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our share price. In addition, future non-compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension or delisting of our ordinary shares from The Nasdaq Stock Market, which could reduce our share price. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares The market price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could fluctuate substantially. Since our shares commenced trading on The Nasdaq Stock Market in July 2007 and through February 28, 2010, the closing price has varied from a high of $8.40 to a low of$2.16. Our share price will likely be impacted by our quarterly financial performance, which may vary in the future, and may not meet our guidance or the expectations of analysts or investors. This may lead to additional volatility in our share price. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares may be impacted by other factors, including: 10 • announcements or introductions of technological innovations or new products, or product enhancements or pricing policies by us or our competitors; • disputes or other developments with respect to our or our competitors’ intellectual property rights; • announcements of strategic partnerships, joint ventures or other agreements by us or our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • regulatory developments in the markets in which we sell our products; • our sale of ordinary shares or other securities in the future; • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth of our markets; and • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole. The trading volume of our shares has been relatively low, which may result in the loss of research coverage by securities analysts. Moreover, we cannot assure you that securities analysts will maintain research coverage of our company and our ordinary shares. If our future quarterly operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our ordinary shares may decline. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility. Any securities litigation claims brought against us could result in substantial expenses and divert management’s attention from our business. Future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market and low trading volume could adversely affect our share price. As of February 28, 2010, we had 21,078,968 ordinary shares outstanding. Approximately 48.9% of these shares are “restricted securities” available for resale on the Nasdaq Stock Market, all of which are subject to volume limitations under Rule 144. Most of these restricted securities are held by the largest beneficial owners of our shares. Future sales of these restricted shares, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We have experienced a low trading volume of our ordinary shares since our initial public offering, and if one or a small number of parties buys or sells a large number of our ordinary shares, we may experience volatility in our share price, and the price and liquidity of our shares may be adversely affected. The holders of approximately 48.9% of our ordinary shares will be entitled to request that we register their shares for resale, and certain other shareholders have the right to include their shares in any such registration statement or in a registration statement for any public offering we undertake in the future. The registration or sale of any of these shares could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to drop significantly. See “Item 7.B: Related Party Transactions — Registration Rights.” The ownership of our ordinary shares is highly concentrated, and your interests may conflict with the interests of our existing shareholders. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially own approximately 36.5% of our outstanding ordinary shares. In addition, an entity controlled by Baker Capital beneficially owns 10.4% of our ordinary shares. Accordingly, these shareholders, acting as a group, will continue to have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, amending our articles of association, raising future capital, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. The significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our stock is dependent on part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us. If we do not maintain sufficient research coverage or if unfavorable research is published about our business, our stock price and the trading volume of our stock may decline. Our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a Passive Foreign Investment Company. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. No definitive guidance has been issued by the United States government concerning how to value the assets of a foreign public company for PFIC testing purposes, but often such public companies value their assets for PFIC status based on the “market capitalization” method. Under the market capitalization method, the total asset value of a company would be considered to equal the fair market value of its outstanding shares plus outstanding indebtedness, as of a relevant testing date. In certain circumstances, including extremely volatile market conditions, it may be appropriate to adjust the market capitalization method by taking into account other factors, such as a control premium, to more accurately determine the fair market value of our assets. Our management determined that, based on management’s financial projections and related assumptions such as an independent valuation of our company employing a modified market capitalization approach to reflect the extreme market volatility in 2009, it is more likely than not that we were not a PFIC for our taxable year ended December 31, 2009. There can be no certainty that the IRS will not challenge such a position, however, and determine that based on the IRS’ interpretation of the asset test, we were a PFIC in 2009. Thus, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for 2009 or any taxable year. We are not providing any U.S. tax opinion to any U.S. Holder concerning any potential PFIC status of our company, and U.S. Holders should consult their own tax advisors concerning the implication of the PFIC rules in his, her or its particular circumstance. See “Item 10.E: Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” 11 We may need to raise additional capital in the future and may be unable to do so on acceptable terms. We believe that the net proceeds from our initial public offering, together with our existing cash balances and cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next twelve months. If our estimates of revenues, expenses or capital or liquidity requirements change or are inaccurate or if cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or arrange additional debt financing. We cannot be certain that we will be able to sell additional equity or arrange additional debt financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could limit our ability to grow and carry out our business plan, or that any such additional financing, if raised through the issuance of equity securities, will not be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Conditions in Israel could adversely affect our business. We are incorporated under Israeli law, and our principal offices, and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our business. Since the State of Israel was established in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity, which began in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity into 2009. In mid-2006, a war took place between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon, resulting in thousands of rockets being fired from Lebanon up to approximately 50 miles into Israel and in late 2008, there was an escalation in fighting between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza strip resulting in hundreds of rockets being fired into Israel. None of our facilities or those of our suppliers in Israel are within range of rockets to date fired into Israel; however, that may change. Furthermore, several countries, principally in the Middle East, still restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies if hostilities in Israel continue or increase. These restrictions may limit materially our ability to sell our solutions to companies in these countries. Any hostilities involving Israel, interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel, could adversely affect our operations and product development, cause our revenues to decrease and adversely affect the share price of publicly traded companies having operations in Israel, such as us. Additionally, any hostilities involving Israel may have a material adverse effect on our facilities or on the facilities of our local suppliers and manufacturers, in which event all or a portion of our inventory may be damaged, and our ability to deliver products to customers may be materially adversely affected. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligations of personnel to perform military service. Our employees in Israel, including executive officers, may be called upon to perform periodic military reserve duty until they reach the age of 49 and, in emergency circumstances, could be called to active duty. In response to increased tension and hostilities, there have been since September 2000 occasional call-ups of military reservists, including in connection with the mid-2006 war in Lebanon and 2009 operation in the Gaza strip, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of one or more of our key employees for military service. Such disruption could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, the absence of a significant number of the employees of our suppliers and contract manufacturers related to military service or the absence for extended periods of one or more of their key employees for military service may disrupt their operations, in which event our ability to deliver products to customers may be materially adversely affected. Our operations may be affected by negative economic conditions or labor unrest in Israel. General strikes or work stoppages occasionally carried out or threatened by Israeli trade unions due to labor disputes may have an adverse effect on the Israeli economy and on our business, including our ability to deliver products to our customers and to receive raw materials from our suppliers in a timely manner. These general strikes or work stoppages may prevent us from shipping our assembled products from Israel to our customers, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. 12 The tax benefits that are available to us require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs and taxes. Our investment program in equipment at our facility in Israel has been granted approved enterprise status, and we are therefore eligible for tax benefits under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, referred to as the Investment Law. We expect to utilize these tax benefits after we utilize our net operating loss carry forwards. As of December 31, 2009, the end of our last fiscal year, our net operating loss carry forwards for Israeli tax purposes amounted to approximately $77.0 million. To remain eligible for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions stipulated in the Investment Law and its regulations and the criteria set forth in the specific certificate of approval. If we do not meet these requirements, the tax benefits would be canceled, and we could be required to refund any tax benefits that we have received. These tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. Effective April 1, 2005, the Investment Law was amended. As a result, the criteria for new investments qualified to receive tax benefits were revised. No assurance can be given that we will, in the future, be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under this law. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would increase our tax liability in the future, which would reduce our profits or increase our losses. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel (i.e., by future acquisitions), our increased activities might not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. See “Item 10.E — Taxation — Israeli Tax Considerations and Government Programs — Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959.” The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to comply with such restrictions or conditions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. We have received grants from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel, pursuant to the provisions of The Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 1984, referred to as the Research and Development Law. Under Israeli law and the approved plans, royalties on the revenues derived from sales of all of our products are payable to the Israeli government, generally at the rate of 3.5%, up to the amount of the received grants, as adjusted for fluctuation in the U.S. dollar/NIS exchange rate. The amounts received after January 1, 1999, bear interest equal to the 12-month London Interbank Offered Rate applicable to dollar deposits that is published on the first business day of each calendar year. Royalties are paid on our consolidated revenues. We have not applied for or received grants since 2006, but we did receive grants totaling $5.6 million through December 31, 2005. In April 2008, we made an early payment of $2.7 million to the Office of the Chief Scientist to conclude our financial obligations under our participation in the Office of the Chief Scientist’s sponsored research and development grant program. We recorded this payment in our first quarter results of 2008 as a one-time payment in our cost of revenues. Although we have repaid the grants, their terms continue to prohibit us from manufacturing outside of Israel certain products, the development of which was funded by the Office of the Chief Scientist, or transferring intellectual property rights in technologies developed using these grants inside or outside of Israel without special approvals. Even if we receive approval to manufacture such products outside of Israel, we may be required to pay an increased total amount of royalties, which may be up to 300% of the grant amount plus interest, depending on the manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel. This restriction may impair our ability to outsource manufacturing or engage in similar arrangements for those products or technologies. Know-how developed under an approved research and development program may not be transferred to any third parties, except in certain circumstances and subject to prior approval. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions and restrictions imposed by the Research and Development Law or by the specific terms under which we received the grants, we may be subject to penalties and criminal charges. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors in Israel or the United States, or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Israel. The majority of our executive officers and directors are not residents of the United States, and the majority of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or any of these persons in a U.S. or Israeli court, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws on the grounds that Israel is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. Even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing the matters described above. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from those under Delaware law. Since we are an Israeli company, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in a Delaware corporation. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness towards the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revisions in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. 13 Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, prevent or make undesirable an acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets. Our articles of association contain certain provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control. These provisions include a classified board of directors and supermajority provisions to amend certain provisions of our articles of association. In addition, Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders, and may limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. See “Item 10 — Additional Information; Description of Share Capital — Anti-Takeover Measures” and “— Acquisitions under Israeli Law.” As a result of the financial market crisis and the decline in the price of our ordinary shares, we may be more vulnerable to an unsolicited or hostile acquisition bid. Notwithstanding provisions of our articles of association and Israeli law, the decline in the price of our ordinary shares may result in us becoming subject to an unsolicited or hostile acquisition bid. In the event that such a bid is publicly disclosed, it may result in increased speculation regarding our company and volatility in our share price even if our board of directors decides not to pursue a transaction. If our board does wish to pursue a transaction, there can be no assurance that it will be consummated successfully or that the price paid will represent a premium above the original price paid for our shares by all of our shareholders. See “Item 10 — Additional Information; Description of Share Capital — Anti-Takeover Measures” and “— Acquisitions under Israeli Law.” 14 Item 