risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in a target acquisition. Except for the limitation that a target acquisition have a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets held in the trust account (net of taxes and amounts disbursed for working capital purposes and other than the portion representing our underwriters’ deferred discount) at the time of the acquisition, we will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. Investors will be relying on management’s ability to source business transactions, evaluate their merits, conduct or monitor diligence and conduct negotiations. Additionally, it is possible, following our initial acquisition, that uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities (including environmental liabilities) of, acquisition or other transaction candidates could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. We may issue shares of our capital stock to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 20,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. There are 7,199,344 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares of common stock upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the unit purchase option granted to Pali Capital, Inc., the representative of the underwriters) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitment, we are likely to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: 19 · may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders; · may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to the holders of our common stock; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely will also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition. Alternatively, we may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe the net proceeds of our IPO and the private placement will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our IPO and the private placement prove to be insufficient for any reason, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target acquisition candidate. In addition, it is possible we could use a portion of the funds not in the trust account to make a deposit, down payment or fund a “no-shop” provision with respect to a proposed business combination. In the event we were ultimately required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach of the agreement relating to such payment or otherwise), and if we have exhausted the limited recourse line of credit totaling $250,000 made available to us by our sponsor, we may not have a sufficient amount of working capital available outside of the trust account to conduct due diligence and pay other expenses related to finding a suitable business combination without securing additional financing. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we would most likely fail to consummate a business combination in the allotted time and would liquidate the trust account, resulting in a loss of a portion of your investment. Except for the limited recourse line of credit totaling $250,000, neither our sponsor nor any of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. In the event we are able to secure financing, the incurrence of debt could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due, if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; · covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, to acquire capital assets or make additional acquisitions; and · our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. We may in the future enter into joint venture arrangements, which are risky since our joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision making authority, our reliance on a co-venturers’ financial condition and disputes between us and our co-venturers. We may in the future co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a target business, partnership, joint venture or other entity. In such circumstances, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision making authority regarding a target business, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become insolvent or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and distract our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting assets owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. We may also, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our third party partners or co-venturers. For example, in the future we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a partnership, joint venture or other entity. Such a guarantee may be on a joint and several basis with our partner or co-venturer in which case we may be liable in the event such party defaults on its guaranty obligation. 20 We will have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various operational issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our officers and directors will allocate some portion of their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. Our executive officers and directors are currently employed by other entities and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If other entities require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to their business and affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. We may engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships or are affiliated with our initial stockholders, directors or officers, which may raise potential conflicts. Other than with respect to the business combination, we have not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, securityholders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any investment to be acquired or disposed of by us or in any transaction to which we are a party or have an interest. Nor do we have a policy that expressly prohibits any such persons from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. Accordingly, we may engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships or are affiliated (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) with our initial stockholders, directors or officers, which may raise potential conflicts. Also, the completion of a business combination between us and an entity owned by a business in which one of our directors or officers may have an interest could enhance their prospects for future business from such client. To minimize potential conflicts of interest, we have agreed not to consummate a business combination with an entity that is affiliated with any of our sponsor, officers or directors unless we obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent third party appraiser, which may or may not be an investment banking firm that is a member of the Financial Industry Regulation Authority, Inc., that the business combination is fair to our stockholders from a financial point of view. Our officers and directors currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with additional entities that are, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. None of our officers or directors have been or currently are a principal of, or affiliated or associated with, any other blank check company. However, our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with additional entities, including other blank check companies which may be engaged in activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties or other contractual obligations. Some of our officers and directors have pre-existing fiduciary obligations to other businesses of which they are officers, directors or advisors. To the extent they identify business opportunities which may be suitable for the entities to which they owe a pre-existing fiduciary obligation, our officers and directors will honor those fiduciary obligations. Accordingly, they are prohibited from presenting opportunities to us that otherwise may be attractive to us unless the entities to which they owe a pre-existing fiduciary obligation (and any successors to such entities) have declined to accept such opportunities. 21 Gordon Pratt, our Chairman, CEO and President is the Managing Director of Fund Management Group, LLC Chairman of the Board Risk Enterprise Management Limited, and Managing General Partner for Distribution Partners Investment Capital, L.P. Larry Swets, Jr., our Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer and a Director, is the managing director of Itasca Financial, LLC, an advisory firm to insurance companies and financials service firms, many of whose clients are in the insurance industry. In addition, Mr. Swets is Managing Director of InsRisk Partners, LLC, which he founded in early 2007. InsRisk manages private funds for investment in insurance-focused securities. Mr. Swets is also the Acting Chief Financial Officer of Risk Enterprise Managment Limited. Since 2000, Thomas Sargent, one of our directors, has been a principal at Bradley, Foster & Sargent, Inc., a Connecticut based investment management firm. In May 2007, Mr. Sargent also became a partner of Tennant Capital Fund, L.P., a private equity fund focused on making investments in the insurance industry. James Zuhlke, one of our directors, is a director of Southern Eagle Insurance Company. In addition, Mr. Zuhlke is the Executive Vice President of Brooke Capital Corporation. John Petry, our special advisor, is a partner at Gotham Capital, a value and special situation hedge fund, and a partner of Gotham Asset Management, a multi-manager investment partnership. Messrs. Pratt, Swets, Sargent, Zuhlke and Petry have a fiduciary duty to each of these companies and may not present opportunities to us that otherwise may be attractive to us unless these entities have declined to accept such opportunities. Furthermore, we will not enter into a business combination with any operating company with which we or any of our officers, directors, special advisors or affiliates have, in any capacity since our formation, engaged in discussions and negotiations with an intent to acquire such company. Our sponsor, officers or directors currently own shares of our common stock and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Shares owned by our sponsor, officers or directors will not participate in the liquidation of the trust account and a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular target acquisition is appropriate for a business combination. Our sponsor, officers and directors collectively own 20% of our issued and outstanding common stock. This ownership interest, together with any other acquisitions of our shares of common stock (or warrants which are subsequently exercised), could allow our sponsor, officers or directors to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our initial business combination. The interests of our sponsor, officers or directors and your interests may not always align and taking actions which require approval of a majority of our stockholders, such as selling our company, may be more difficult to accomplish. Our sponsor, officers or directors have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to those shares of common stock upon the liquidation of the trust account if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Additionally, our purchased 1,250,000 warrants directly from us in a private placement transaction prior to the consummation of our IPO at a purchase price of $1.00 per warrant for a total purchase price of $1,250,000. The shares of common stock acquired prior to our IPO and any warrants owned by our sponsor will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and our directors, who control and own our sponsor, may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target acquisition and completing a business combination. Consequently, our officers’ discretion, and the discretion of our directors, in identifying and selecting a suitable target acquisition may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest and as a result of such conflicts management may choose a target acquisition that is not in the best interests of our stockholders. The requirement that we complete a business combination by October 4, 2009 may give potential target businesses leverage over us in negotiating a business combination. We will liquidate and promptly distribute only to our public stockholders the amount in our trust account (subject to our obligations under Delaware law for claims of creditors) plus any remaining net assets if we do not effect a business combination by October 4, 2009. Any potential target business with which we enter into negotiations concerning a business combination will be aware of this requirement. Consequently, such target businesses may obtain leverage over us in negotiating a business combination, knowing that if we do not complete a business combination with that particular target business, we may be unable to complete a business combination with any target business. This risk will increase as we get closer to the time limits referenced above. 22 The requirement that we complete a business combination by October 4, 2009 may motivate our officers and directors to approve a business combination during that time period so that they may get their out-of-pocket expenses reimbursed. Each of our officers and directors may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations. The funds for such reimbursement will be provided from the money not held in trust. In the event we do not effect a business combination by October 4, 2009, any expenses incurred by such individuals in excess of the money being held outside of the trust account will not be repaid as we will liquidate at such time. On the other hand, if we complete a business combination within such time period, those expenses will be repaid by the target business. Consequently, our officers, who are also our directors, may have an incentive to complete a business combination other than just what is in the best interest of our stockholders. None of our officers or directors, or any of their affiliates, has ever been associated with a blank check company and such lack of experience could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination. None of our officers or directors, or any of their affiliates, has ever been associated with a blank check company. Accordingly, you may not have sufficient information with which to evaluate the ability of our management team to identify and complete a business combination using the proceeds of our IPO. Our management’s lack of experience in operating a blank check company could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination and could result in our having to liquidate our trust account. If we liquidate, our public stockholders could receive less than the amount they paid for our securities, causing them to incur significant financial losses. Initially, we may only be able to complete one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single asset or property. The net proceeds from our IPO and the private placement (excluding $1,514,760 held in the trust account which represents deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) will provide us with approximately $36,000,000 which will be held in the trust account and may be used by us to complete a business combination. We currently have no restrictions on our ability to seek additional funds through the sale of securities or through loans. As a consequence, we could seek to acquire a target business that has a fair market value significantly in excess of 80% of our net assets held in the trust account (net of taxes and amounts disbursed for working capital purposes and excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount). Although we have not engaged or retained, had any discussions with, or entered into any agreements with, any third party regarding any such potential financing transactions, we could seek to fund such a business combination by raising additional funds through the sale of our securities or through loan arrangements. However, if we were to seek such additional funds, any such arrangement would only be consummated simultaneously with our consummation of a business combination. Consequently, it is probable we will have the ability to complete only a single business combination, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several assets or closely related operating businesses at the same time. However, should our management elect to pursue more than one acquisition of target businesses simultaneously, our management could encounter difficulties in consummating all or a portion of such acquisitions due to a lack of adequate resources, including the inability of management to devote sufficient time to the due diligence, negotiation and documentation of each acquisition. Furthermore, even if we complete the acquisition of more than one target business at substantially the same time, there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate the operations of such target businesses. Accordingly, the prospects for our ability to effect our business strategy may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. 23 In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Furthermore, since our business combination may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several assets or operating businesses at the same time and may be with different sellers, we will need to convince such sellers to agree that the purchase of their assets or businesses is contingent upon the simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions. If we redeem our public warrants, the insider warrants, which are non redeemable, could provide the purchasers thereof with the ability to realize a larger gain than the public warrant holders. The warrants held by our public warrant holders may be called for redemption at any time after the warrants become exercisable: · in whole and not in part; · at a price of $.01 per warrant; · upon not less than 30 days' prior written notice of redemption to each warrant holder; · if, and only if, the last sale price of the common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share, for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending on the third business day prior to the notice of redemption to warrant holders. In addition, we may not redeem the warrants (including those warrants sold to our sponsor in a private placement prior to our IPO) unless the warrants comprising the units sold in our IPO and the shares of common stock underlying those warrants are covered by an effective registration statement from the beginning of the measurement period through the date fixed for the redemption. As a result of the insider warrants not being subject to the redemption features that our publicly-held warrants are subject to, holders of the insider warrants, or their permitted transferees, could realize a larger gain than our public warrant holders in the event we redeem our public warrants. We could be liable for up to the amount of the purchase price of the insider warrants plus interest to our sponsor who purchased the insider warrants in a private placement conducted immediately prior to our IPO. We sold in a private placement occurring immediately prior to our IPO 1,250,000 insider warrants to our sponsor. This private placement was made in reliance on an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. This exemption requires there be no general solicitation of investors with respect to the sales of the insider warrants. If such offering were deemed to be a general solicitation with respect to the insider warrants, the offer and sale of such securities would not be exempt from registration and the purchasers of those securities could have a right to rescind their purchases. Rescinding purchasers could seek to recover the purchase price paid, with interest, or if they no longer own the securities, to receive damages. The insider warrants purchase agreement contains provisions under which the purchasers waive any and all rights to assert present or future claims, including the right of rescission, against us with respect to their purchase of the insider warrants and agree to indemnify and hold us and the underwriters harmless from all losses, damages or expenses that relate to claims or proceedings brought against us or the underwriters by the purchasers of the insider warrants, although it is unclear whether these waivers and indemnifications would be enforceable. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. In connection with our IPO, we issued warrants to purchase up to 4,733,625 shares of common stock. In addition, we (a) sold to the sponsor warrants to purchase up to 1,250,000 shares of common stock immediately prior to consummation of our IPO, (b) issued an additional 233,625 warrants to purchase additional shares of common stock to Pali Capital, Inc. and (c) granted to Pali Capital, Inc. a unit purchase option to purchase up to 450,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase up to an additional 450,000 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target acquisition. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares of common stock issued to complete the business combination. Therefore, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target acquisition. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares of common stock underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. 24 If our sponsor, officers or directors exercise their registration rights, and/or if Pali Capital, Inc. elects to exercise its unit purchase option, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of the registration rights and the purchase option may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our sponsor, officers or directors are entitled to require us to register the resale of their 1,183,406 shares of common stock at any time after the date on which their shares of common stock are released from escrow, which, except in limited circumstances, will not be before one year from the consummation of a business combination. Further, prior to our IPO, the sponsor purchased in a private placement 1,250,000 insider warrants that are identical to the warrants sold in our IPO, except that, among other things, such insider warrants will become freely tradable only after they are registered. If all of the insider warrants are exercised, there will be an additional 1,250,000 shares of our common stock eligible for trading in the public market. In addition, we sold to Pali Capital, Inc. a unit purchase option to purchase up to a total of 450,000 units. If this unit purchase option is exercised, and all of the underlying warrants are also exercised, there will be an additional 900,000 shares of our common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional numbers of securities eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities as a result of the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination, or we may be required to incur additional expenses if we are unable to liquidate after the expiration of the allotted time period. We do not believe our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Companies that fall within the definition of an “investment company”, as set forth in Section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the regulations thereunder, which we refer to as the 1940 Act, are subject to registration and substantive regulation under the 1940 Act. Companies that are subject to the 1940 Act that do not become registered are normally required to liquidate and are precluded from entering into transactions or enforceable contracts other than as an incident to liquidation. The basic definition of an “investment company” in the 1940 Act and related SEC rules and interpretations includes a company (1) that is, proposes to be, or holds itself out as being engaged primarily in investing, reinvesting or trading in securities (Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the 1940 Act); or (2) that has more than 40% of its assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) in “investment securities,” (Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the 1940 Act) or (3) that is a “special situation investment company” (such as a merchant bank or private equity fund). In order not to be regulated as an investment company under the 1940 Act, unless we can qualify for an exclusion, we must ensure we are engaged primarily in an initial business other than investing, reinvesting or trading of securities and that our activities do not include investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading “investment securities.” Our business will be to identify and consummate a business combination and thereafter to operate the acquired business or businesses for the long term. We do not plan to buy companies with a view to resale or profit from sale of the businesses. We do not plan to buy unrelated businesses or to be a passive investor. We do not believe our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the 1940 Act. In order to avoid being deemed an “investment company”, the proceeds held in the trust account may be invested by the trust account agent only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the 1940 Act with a maturity of 180 days or less, or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the 1940 Act. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to avoid being deemed an investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act. Our IPO is not intended for persons who are seeking a return on investments in government securities. The trust account and the purchase of government securities for the trust account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either: (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business combination, or (ii) absent a business combination, liquidation and return of the funds held in this trust account to our public stockholders. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: 25 · additional expenses for which we have not budgeted; · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, which would require additional expenses for which we have not budgeted, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. Our directors may not be considered “independent” and we thus may not have the benefit of independent directors examining our financial statements and the priority of expenses incurred on our behalf subject to reimbursement. Our sponsor, officers and directors hold an aggregate of 1,183,406 shares of common stock which they purchased at our inception for a purchase price of approximately $0.021 per share, which is significantly lower than our IPO price. No salary or other compensation will be paid to our officers or directors for services rendered by them on our behalf prior to or in connection with a business combination. Although we believe three (3) of the members of our board of directors are “independent” under the rules of the Nasdaq Stock Market, because our directors may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, it is likely state securities administrators would take the position we do not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Additionally, there is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. Although we believe all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not any directors are deemed to be “independent,” we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken or expenses are incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock held by the public stockholders. We may not obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party as to the fair market value of the target acquisition or that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our stockholders. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that either the target acquisition we select has a fair market value in excess of 80% of our net assets held in the trust account (net of taxes and amounts disbursed for working capital purposes and excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount) or that the price we are paying is fair to stockholders unless (i) our board is not able to independently determine that a target acquisition has a sufficient market value or (ii) there is a conflict of interest with respect to the transaction. If no opinion is obtained, our stockholders will be relying on the judgment or our board of directors. Our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which limits the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. Our securities are traded in the over-the-counter market and quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, FINRA-sponsored and operated inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not included in the Nasdaq Stock Market. Quotation of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board limits the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. Lack of liquidity limits the price at which you may be able to sell our securities or your ability to sell our securities at all. 26 Risks Related to Our Target Businesses Compliance with governmental regulations and changes in laws and regulations and risks from investigations and legal proceedings could be costly and could adversely affect operating results. The insurance industry is subject to regulation and intervention by governments throughout the world. A target business’ operations in the U.S. and internationally can be impacted by expected and unexpected changes in the legal and business environments in which we could operate, as well as the outcome of ongoing government and internal investigations and legal proceedings. Changes that could impact the legal environment include new legislation, new regulation, new policies, investigations and legal proceedings and new interpretations of the existing legal rules and regulations. In particular, additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in countries identified by management for immediate focus. Changes that impact the business environment include changes in accounting standards, changes in tax laws or tax rates, the resolution of audits by various tax authorities, and the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carryforwards and tax credits. Compliance related issues could limit our ability to do business in certain countries. These changes could have a significant financial impact on our future operations and the way we conduct, or if we conduct, business in the affected countries. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals in connection with a business combination in a timely manner, or at all. This delay or failure may result in additional expenditures of money and resources, jeopardize our efforts to consummate a business combination within required time periods and force us to liquidate. Business combinations with insurance-related businesses are generally subject to significant regulatory requirements and consents. We will not be able to consummate a business combination with an insurance-related business without complying with applicable laws and regulations and obtaining required governmental consents. Insurance laws and regulations of all 50 states of the United States and the District of Columbia generally require that, before a company can acquire with an insurance-related business domiciled in that jurisdiction, the acquiring company must obtain the prior approval of the insurance regulator of that jurisdiction. This typically applies where 10% or more of the shares of a domiciliary insurance company, either directly or through its holding company parent, are subject to transfer and, therefore, will likely affect business combinations we would contemplate. Laws applicable to insurers and reinsurers domiciled in Canada, Bermuda and the Cayman Islands are substantially similar to those in the U.S. and typically require the prior approval of the regulatory body exercising jurisdiction over insurers and reinsurers to any proposed change in control of such an insurer or reinsurer. Laws applicable to insurance business in the United Kingdom give the Financial Services Authority Limited (FSA) jurisdiction over any proposed change of control of such insurance business. These laws may be triggered by a proposed change in ownership at a threshold as low as five percent (5%), as is the case of the Cayman Islands’ insurance code. Any regulatory obstacles in obtaining approval may result in additional expenditures or further reduce anticipated benefits of a business combination. New or additional requirements or limitations may also be imposed, which could delay or reduce the anticipated benefits of the business combination. These delays may jeopardize or postpone completion of the business combination in the required time period and may force us to dissolve and liquidate. Each of our target businesses will be subject to extensive regulation, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. In addition, if a target business fails to comply with these regulations, it may be subject to penalties, including fines and suspensions, which could reduce our earnings significantly. We will be subject to extensive regulation in the states and countries in which we operate. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of insurance policyholders, as opposed to the interests of stockholders. These regulations generally are administered by a department of insurance or similar regulatory authority and relate, among other things, to authorization to write lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, rate and policy form approvals, investment and underwriting limitations, affiliated transactions, dividend limitations, changes in control, solvency and a variety of other financial and non-financial aspects of an insurance business. Insurance regulators also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. 27 If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals, or do not comply with the applicable regulatory requirements, insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or the NAIC, has adopted a system to test the adequacy of statutory capital, known as “risk-based capital.” This system establishes the minimum amount of risk-based capital necessary for an insurance company to support its insurance business operations. Insurers falling below a calculated threshold may be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, including supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation. Failure to maintain our risk-based capital at the required levels could adversely affect the ability to maintain regulatory authority to conduct an insurance business. Changes in existing statutes, regulations and regulatory policies, as well as changes in the implementation of such statutes, regulations and regulatory policies, may affect the way a target business does business, its ability to sell new policies, products or services and its claims exposure on existing policies. State insurance regulators and the NAIC continually re-examine existing laws and regulations. These examinations may result in the enactment of laws and regulations, or the issuance of interpretations of existing laws and regulations, that may adversely affect an insurance-related business. More restrictive laws, rules or regulations may be adopted in the future that could make compliance more difficult and/or expensive. Although the U.S. federal government generally does not directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including changes in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, financial services regulation and federal taxation, could significantly harm the insurance industry and us. Specifically, recently adopted federal financial services modernization legislation addressing privacy issues, among other matters, is expected to lead to additional federal regulation of the insurance industry in the coming years, which could result in increased expenses or restrictions on a target business’ operations. If we fail to properly evaluate the financial position and reserves of a target business with which we enter into a business combination, our losses and benefits from the operation of that business may exceed our loss and benefit reserves, which could have a significantly adverse effect on our results of operations. If we enter into a business combination with a target business, our ability to operate that business will depend on our accurate assessment of the financial position and reserves of, and the risks underwritten by, the target business. Reserves are actuarial and statistical projections at a given point in time of what any insurance or reinsurance company ultimately expects to pay on claims and benefits, based on facts and circumstances then known, predictions of future events, estimates of future trends in claim frequency and severity, mortality, morbidity and other variable factors such as inflation. If we fail to assess accurately the risks underwritten by a target business or if our evaluation of the target business’s reserves is incorrect, the reserves may be inadequate to cover losses and we may be unable to operate the target business profitably. If our actual claims experience is less favorable after the business combination than our underlying assumptions prior to the acquisition of the target business, we may be unable to operate the business on a sound financial basis. In addition, the actual losses and benefits experienced by any target company we may acquire may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates contained in its financial statements. Although we will conduct due diligence on the transactions that the target business has underwritten, we cannot assure you that this evaluation will be borne out by events and, if they are not, our future financial position and results of operations could fail to achieve their anticipated levels. In addition, as industry practices and legal, judicial and social conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may either extend coverage beyond the period which we intended or increase the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not manifest themselves until many years after we enter into contracts affected by these changes. As a result, we may not be able to ascertain the full extent of our liabilities under contracts for many years following the issuance of the contracts. If we determine that our reserves are inadequate, we will increase our reserves with a corresponding reduction in net income for the period in which the deficiency was identified. 28 A downgrade in the claims paying and financial strength ratings of a target business may cause significant declines in its revenues and earnings. If we enter into a business combination with an insurance company, our financial strength will be monitored by regulatory authorities and private companies, such as A.M. Best. Claims paying and financial strength ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. A.M. Best focuses on balance sheet strength (including capital adequacy and loss expense reserve adequacy), operating performance and business profile. A reduction in a target business’ performance under these criteria could result in a downgrade of its A.M. Best rating. Any downgrade of this rating could cause any brokers, agents, retail brokers or insureds with whom a target business works to choose other, more highly rated competitors, which could cause significant declines in the revenues and earnings of the target business. A ratings downgrade could also increase the cost or reduce the availability of reinsurance to the target company. Changes in market interest rates or in the equity security markets may impair the performance of a target business’ investments, the sales of its investment products and issuers of securities held in the portfolio of the target business. A target insurance business will depend on income from its investment portfolio for a significant portion of its revenues and earnings. The performance of a target business’ investment portfolio depends in part upon the level of interest rates, equity security prices, real estate values, the performance of the economy generally, the performance of issuers of securities held in the portfolio of the target business and other factors that are beyond a target business’ control. Changes in these factors may impair a target business’ net investment income and, thus, reduce or eliminate our profitability. In addition, a target business may face significant liquidity risk if the maturity and the duration of its investment portfolio are not correlated with the liquidity requirements of its liabilities. To the extent that a target business is unsuccessful in correlating its investment portfolio with its expected liabilities, a target business may be forced to liquidate investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could harm the performance of its investment portfolio. If we effect a business combination with a life insurance or annuity company, then the target business would be exposed to the risk that changes in interest rates may reduce the “spread,” or the difference between the amounts that it is required to pay under the contracts in its general account, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed investment contracts, and the rate of return it is able to earn on general account investments to support obligations under the contracts. A reduction of its spread due to changes in interest rates or equity security markets may reduce or eliminate a target life insurance and/or annuity business’ profitability. If our target business’ established reserves for insurance claims are insufficient, its earnings may be reduced or it could suffer losses. In accordance with insurance industry practice and accounting and regulatory requirements, the target business must establish and maintain reserves for claims and claims expenses related to any risk-bearing insurance businesses in which it engages. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent estimates, generally using actuarial projection techniques at a given accounting date. These reserve estimates are based on an assessment of facts and circumstances then known, a review of historical settlement patterns, development in the frequency, severity and pattern of claims between the estimated and actual amounts, judicial trends, regulatory changes and inflation and foreign currency fluctuations. In the case of life insurance and annuity companies, reserves for future benefits and claims are based on a number of factors, including mortality rates, expected claims, policy persistency, future premium amounts and rates of return on investments. Because the establishment of claims reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates, ultimate losses may exceed claims reserves, which would reduce the earnings of any acquired business and could cause us to incur losses. If a target business is engaged in insurance brokerage, a reduction in insurance premium rates and commission rates may have an adverse effect on its operations and profits. Insurance brokers typically derive a significant part of their revenues from commissions on insurance products brokered. Insurance brokers have no control over the insurance premium rates on which these commissions are based, and revenues may be adversely affected by a reduction in rates. In addition, insurance brokers’ commission revenues could also be reduced by a decrease in the commission rates that insurance companies pay for the sale of their products. Historically, premium rates have been cyclical, varying widely based on market conditions, including the underwriting capacity of insurance companies, earnings by insurance companies on their investment portfolios and competition in the marketplace. Health care premiums and commissions may also be affected by a slowing economy as employers seek ways to minimize employee benefits costs and reduce the size of their workforce. A period of decreasing premium rates may reduce insurance brokers’ profitability. 29 Geopolitical and International Environment Risks International and political events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our post business combination revenue may be derived from non-United States operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries in which we transact business. The occurrence of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Operations in countries other than the United States are subject to various risks peculiar to each country. With respect to any particular country, these risks may include: · expropriation and nationalization of our assets in that country; · political and economic instability; · civil unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war, or other armed conflict; · natural disasters, including those related to earthquakes and flooding; · inflation; · currency fluctuations, devaluations, and conversion restrictions; · confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; · governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments, or limit the movement of funds; · governmental activities that may result in the deprivation of contract rights; and · governmental activities that may result in the inability to obtain or retain licenses required for operation. Due to the unsettled political conditions in many countries in which we may operate, our revenue and profits are subject to the adverse consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest, strikes, currency controls, and governmental actions. Our facilities and our employees could come under threat of attack in some countries where we may operate. In addition, we may become subject to the risk related to loss of life of our personnel and our subcontractors in these areas. We are also subject to the risks that our employees, joint venture partners, and agents outside of the United States may fail to comply with applicable laws. We may effect a business combination with an entity organized under the laws of any state of the United States, Canada, Bermuda or the Cayman Islands, the United Kingdom, or other country outside the United States. Seeking to effect a business combination with an entity outside the United States could increase our costs, delay the business combination beyond the time period requirements described in this prospectus and, if completed, would expose us to the risks attendant to operating internationally. Seeking to effect a business combination with an entity outside of the United States could expose us to increased costs and delay completion of the business combination. For example, a target company’s financial statements may be reported in accordance with the domiciliary country’s GAAP or in accordance with the domiciliary country’s statutory accounting requirements for insurance companies, rather than U.S. GAAP. Reconciling these financial statements to U.S. GAAP may be time consuming and expensive. Moreover, the reconciliation process may not uncover all of the applicable accounting issues, which could, among other negative effects, expose our directors and officers to stockholder litigation, increase the potential for regulatory scrutiny of our accounting practices and cause us to restate previously announced financial results. 30 If we complete a business combination with a target company, including an insurance holding company, that operates outside the United States, we may be subject to risks relating to: · deterioration of relations between the United States and such country and social unrest, political upheaval; · currency exchange rate fluctuations and currency exchange controls; · potentially adverse consequences in complying with foreign laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, more cumbersome corporate disclosure, governance and regulatory requirements, less protection for intellectual property rights or property rights in general, and restrictions in dividend payments; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and in assimilating cultural and managerial differences; and · potentially adverse tax consequences, including, but not limited to, a more burdensome tax system, withholding taxes on income and capital gains, and termination or reduction of tax incentives. Further, if we determine to change domiciles in connection with a business combination, the new jurisdiction’s laws will likely govern our business combination and future agreements, as well as our corporate governance, which may impede our ability to enforce our legal rights and result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None Item 