ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We face risks in operating our business, including risks that may prevent us from achieving our business objectives or that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We present these risks according to the following categories: Risks related to Our Industry and Business; Risks related to Our Capital Needs and Financial Position; Risks related to Regulation and Litigation; Risks related to Our Operations and Technology; and Risks related to the Change in our Jurisdiction of Incorporation. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY AND BUSINESS Conditions in the financial services industry and the securities markets, especially decreases in trading volumes, interest rates and market liquidity, may hurt our business. We generate revenues principally from commissions from execution and clearing services, spreads from principal transactions and net interest income earned on cash balances in certain of our clients’ accounts as well as interest related to our fixed income and principal transaction activities. These revenue sources are dependent on a combination of factors including the level of trading volumes, interest rates, credit spreads and market liquidity, as well as global market and economic conditions generally. A decrease in trading volumes or market liquidity, or a continued period of extraordinarily low interest rates, either individually or in combination, could adversely affect our business and profitability. The volume of transactions our clients conduct with us and the revenue we generate from interest income is directly affected by a number of U.S. and international market factors, most of which are beyond our control, including: • economic, political and market conditions; • broad trends in the brokerage and finance industry; • changes in customer trading demand and speculative trading activities in the markets; • supply and demand for commodities; • financial strength of market participants; • availability of credit and capital use in trading; • legislative and regulatory changes; • actions of our competitors; • consolidation among exchanges and our competitors; • introduction of new products; • changes in cost and fee structures; • changes in government monetary policies; • the level and volatility of foreign exchange rates; • disruptions in markets due to terrorism, war or extreme weather events or other natural disasters; and • new market entrants. Any one or more of the factors listed above, or other factors, may contribute to a decline in trading volumes or market liquidity. Any significant decline in trading volume in the financial markets generally, or the fixed income, interest rate product, equity, foreign exchange or commodity markets in particular, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. For example, in calendar year 2008 and part of calendar year 2009, the global financial services industry and the securities and futures markets experienced significant and adverse conditions, including a substantial contraction of credit, significantly increased volatility, outflows of customer assets and investments, losses resulting from declining asset values, defaults on securities and loans and substantially reduced liquidity. As a result, many financial institutions and market participants required additional capital infusions, merged with larger and stronger competitors, became bank holding companies, and, in some cases, failed. Many of the firms that have been adversely affected by the financial crisis were or are our clients or our counterparties. As a result of this instability of the financial markets and the lack of readily available credit (or capital), we believe that many of our clients and counterparties decreased their trading volume and risk exposure. 17 Table of Contents Factors affecting trading volume are complex and historical precedent may not necessarily be meaningful. For example, historically, trading volume on U.S. derivatives exchanges tend to increase during periods of uncertainty due to increased hedging activity and the desire to manage the risks associated with, or to speculate on, volatility in the equity markets, fluctuations in interest rates, and price changes in foreign exchange, commodity, and other markets. However, during the recent economic volatility, we experienced decreased volume during parts of 2008 and 2009, which we believe was due primarily to our clients and other market participants decreasing risk exposure and the lack of available capital. A reduction in our overall trading volume could also render the markets in which we operate less attractive to participants as a source of liquidity and could result in further losses of trading volume and the associated transaction-based revenues. Such diminution of liquidity could also make it more difficult for us to generate profit margins on principal transactions. Accordingly, any reduction in trading volumes or market liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition to trading volumes, revenues are affected by the level of interest rates, as we generate revenue from net interest earned on the investment of the margin funds as well as other cash our clients place with us. Our interest income is directly affected by the spread between the interest rates we pay our clients on their cash balances and the interest rates we earn from re-investing their cash balances. While these spreads have remained within a relatively constant range over time, they can widen or narrow when interest rate trends change. In addition, a portion of our interest income relates to client balances on which we do not pay interest, and thus in these cases, interest income directly depends on the absolute level of interest rates. As a result, a portion of our interest income may decline or remain at current depressed levels if interest rates fall or remain at current low levels, regardless of the spreads that determine most of our interest income. As a general matter, our financial performance benefits from higher interest-rate environments, which typically increase our net interest income, and is negatively affected when short-term interest rates are low, because those environments reduce interest income. Our net interest income may also decline if clients reduce surplus margin balances they hold with us, either because they are removing excess cash, or reducing their trading activity in the wider market generally (for example, during the financial crisis in 2008) or with us specifically. As a result of the interest rate environment over the past fiscal year, our interest income has substantially contracted, which has adversely impacted our financial results. We also earn interest income from collateralized financing arrangements, which include resale agreements and securities lending transactions we enter into in conjunction with our principal transactions. Interest income earned in connection with collateralized financing transactions depends on the difference between the interest rates we pay to our clients on their cash collateral and the interest rates we receive from investing that collateral. Fluctuations in interest rates are caused by many of the factors identified above as well as others. Any significant narrowing in short-term interest rate spreads or overall levels could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We face intense competition from other companies within the financial services industry, and if we are not able to compete successfully with them, our business may be harmed. The derivatives and cash brokerage industry is highly competitive, and we expect that competition will continue to intensify in the future. Many of our current and potential competitors have larger client bases, more established name recognition and greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel resources than we do. Further, some of our competitors may be better capitalized, and some may have received direct or indirect subsidies from their respective national governments following the global economic crisis. As a result of these subsidies, these competitors may have lower operating costs due to lower costs of capital or may be perceived by clients as having the benefit of the implicit guarantee of their home government. Furthermore, because some of our competitors are better capitalized, they are able to participate in certain markets that we are excluded from because of our smaller size, such as clearing for credit default swaps. Therefore, our current and potential competitors may be able to, among other things: • maintain a stronger credit rating than we do; • enjoy greater access to, and have a lower cost of, capital, which may allow them to provide more favorable financing or liquidity to clients than we can provide; • develop and provide products and services that are more attractive to clients than ours, in one or more of our markets; 18 Table of Contents • provide execution and clearing services that are more rapid, reliable or comprehensive, or less expensive than ours; • provide products and services we do not offer; • offer products and services at prices below ours to gain market share and to promote other businesses in which we engage to only a limited extent; • offer better, faster and more reliable technology; • outbid us for desirable acquisition targets; • market, promote and sell their products and services more effectively; and • develop stronger relationships with clients. We compete with a significant number of brokers in the U.S. and throughout the world in one or more markets. Although no one competitor operates in all of our markets, one broker, Newedge, which is a large, well capitalized broker with global operations, competes in many of our markets. In addition, affiliates of the largest financial institutions, including Bank of America, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, and UBS compete with us in key areas such as clearing services, which is a significant source of our revenue. We also compete with a large number of independent brokerage firms, such as R.J. O’Brien in the United States, as well as regional brokers in particular markets around the world. We have also witnessed the continuing increase of online trading platforms that provide direct competition to our traditional brokerage business. New or existing competitors could make it difficult for us to maintain our current market share or increase it in desirable markets. Even if competitors do not significantly erode or limit our market share, they may offer their services at lower prices, and we may be required to reduce our fees significantly to remain competitive. A fee reduction without a commensurate reduction in expenses or increase in volume would decrease our profitability. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain our existing clients or attract new clients. The success of our business depends on our ability to maintain and increase our client base. Our clients are particularly sensitive to the diversity and flexibility of the services, products, markets and regions that we make available; the quality, speed and reliability of our order execution and clearing services; our perceived and actual creditworthiness; and the costs of using our services. Because the financial services industry in general, and the futures brokerage industry in particular, is subject to rapid innovation in products and services, particularly with regard to technological development, we face intense competitive pressure to continuously enhance our product and service offerings in order to maintain and increase our client base. Fast and reliable systems technology with global reach has been a critical aspect of client service, and we must be able to keep pace with important industry innovations, an effort which could be costly and present operational and other risks. We may also face difficulties in attracting new clients if we fail to offer a range of services as broad as our competitors offer. Further, if our reputation for quality, speed and reliability is impaired, or if we fail to enhance existing or create new products and services or enter into new markets and regions, we may not be able to attract new clients which may inhibit our growth. Our clients are not obligated to use our services and at any time could easily and quickly switch providers of execution and clearing services, transfer their positions or decrease their trading activity conducted through us. This is particularly true for our institutional clients who are sophisticated users of brokerage services, often have relationships with a number of competing brokers, and generate a disproportionately large share of our client trading volumes. As a result, we are vulnerable to potentially significant and sudden loss of revenues from our institutional client base. Similarly, while individual investors in the past have generally been less likely to change brokers, their demand for brokerage services has generally been sensitive to broader market trends, so a significant downturn in the markets or unusually heightened volatility in the derivatives or cash markets could lead to a substantial decline in revenues from our individual investor client base. Many of our clients have longstanding relationships with individuals or teams within our company. To the extent any of those individuals or teams seek alternative employment, we may be in jeopardy of losing those clients. 19 Table of Contents Our international operations present special challenges that we may not be able to meet, and this could adversely affect our financial results. We currently conduct business internationally and expect to continue to expand our international operations. During fiscal 2010, we generated approximately 33.3% of our revenues, net of interest and transaction-based expenses, in Europe and 13.9% in Asia. We face significant risks and challenges in conducting business in international markets, particularly in developing regions. These risks and challenges include, but may not be limited to: • potentially unstable or adverse political climates; • local laws that could be unfavorable to our business or foreign investors; • less developed technological infrastructure and higher costs, which could make our products and services less attractive or accessible in emerging markets; • difficulty in complying with the diverse regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions, which may be more burdensome, subject to unexpected changes, or not clearly defined, potentially exposing us to significant compliance costs and regulatory penalties; • inability to enforce contracts in some jurisdictions; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties and costs associated with commencing operations in new jurisdictions; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • regulatory requirements that limit our ability to expand our presence in emerging and/or developing countries; • currency and tax laws that may prevent or restrict the transfer of capital and profits among our various operations around the world; • time zone, language and cultural differences among personnel in different areas of the world; and • other barriers to entry that make it difficult or costly to establish our business. Furthermore, due to cultural, regulatory and other factors, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in those regions relative to local firms or to international firms that have a well-established local presence. In some locations, we may need to acquire local capacity or enter into joint ventures with local firms in order to gain a presence, and we may face intense competition from other international firms over relatively scarce opportunities for market entry. This competition could make it difficult for us to expand our business as planned. In order to be competitive in some local non-U.S. markets, or in some cases because of restrictions on the ability of foreign firms to do business locally, we have sought and may in the future seek to operate through joint ventures with local firms. For example, in India, we own a 70.2% interest in MF Global Sify Securities India Private Ltd. and a 75.0% of MF Global Financial Services India Private Limited, and in Taiwan, we currently own a 73.2% interest in MF Global Futures Trust Co. Ltd. and a 19.5% interest in Polaris MF Global Futures Co. Ltd., a publicly traded company. Doing business through joint ventures may limit our ability to control the conduct of the business, require us to allow our joint-venture partners veto rights over material actions, or could expose us to reputational and operational risks. In addition, due to the intense competition from other international brokers seeking to enter these fast-growing markets, we may have difficulty finding suitable local firms willing to enter into the kinds of relationships with us that we may need to gain access to these markets. Our principal transactions expose us to market and other risks. Our principal transactions expose us to market risk, which could result in losses that adversely affect our results of operations of our business. Market risk refers to the risk fluctuations in financial instruments, commodity market prices, market indices, foreign-exchange rates, interest rates, market or instrument correlations, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), or other market factors will result in losses for a position or portfolio. Accordingly, when we act as principal in a transaction and take a position for our own account, market fluctuations that are different than what we expect could result in substantial losses. For more information about our market risk and market-risk management methods, see “Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure about Market Risk—Market Risk”. We engage in principal transactions—purchasing, selling or otherwise taking positions for our own account—primarily to facilitate the execution of existing client orders or in anticipation that future orders will become available to fill the other side of a transaction. When facilitating client transactions as a principal, we sometimes choose to not fully offset trades or choose 20 Table of Contents to execute offsetting trades whose terms differ from the clients’ trades. To the extent that we may not be able to efficiently or advantageously hedge or reverse our principal-transaction positions, or to the extent that such principal transactions remain unhedged, our capital will be exposed to risk of loss. Additionally, we may be exposed to market risk when, in conjunction with ongoing or anticipated client activity or otherwise for our own account, we enter into trades or other transactions, which may or may not be hedged, in which we seek to monetize our views on the market. Principal transactions may also expose us to concentration risk, as discussed below under “Risk factors—Concentration of credit and market risk could expose us to potentially significant losses.” As we grow our business, including continuing to facilitate our clients’ transactions and increasing our principal trading activities, our exposure to market risk and trading losses may increase. Although we expect to increasingly recognize trading income as part of our ongoing activity for our clients and to continue monetizing, on a limited basis, our market views with unhedged principal transactions, there can be no assurance that we can increase the level of this activity or that it will be as profitable as we may anticipate or at all. Even transactions where we execute client orders by entering into a requested client trade for our own account and then, relatively quickly thereafter, entering into an offsetting trade or a series of trades with one or more third parties may expose us to market risk. In cases where an offsetting trade is undertaken to eliminate or limit our exposure to changes in market prices, if our trades are not completely offset, not perfectly hedged or are poorly timed (for example, the risk that market prices will change before we are able to execute an offsetting trade or a series of trades), we may incur trading losses. Furthermore, although matched-principal transactions limit market risk, the transactions do not limit counterparty risk, which is discussed in greater detail under “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Our business exposes us to significant client and counterparty credit risks”. We may also take positions for our own account in order to hedge our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rate risks arising from the global character and financial focus of our operations and each of those types of transactions also expose us to market risk. Because of the limitations and uncertainties inherent in hedging strategies, our exposure to market risk from these transactions may not be fully offset or may not always be fully known. Similarly, we may make investments as part of our asset-liability management activities that expose us to market risk, particularly but not exclusively, from interest rate movements. We cannot guarantee that we will not incur significant losses at any time, even with respect to our client facilitation of transactions through matched-principal execution, and particularly in the event of severe market stress. Our business exposes us to significant client and counterparty credit risks. Credit risk arises from the possibility that we may suffer losses due to the failure of clients, counterparties and borrowers to satisfy their financial obligations to us at all or in a timely manner. We are subject to credit risk in connection with many of our business activities and we may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by our clients or counterparties. Credit risks we face include, among others: • exposure to counterparties with whom we place funds, such as when we post margin with exchanges and brokers, deposit both our own funds and those of our clients with banks, enter into repurchase and resale agreements and enter into stock lending and stock borrowing transactions; • exposure to issuers of securities we purchase or that are referenced in underlying securities we purchase; • exposure to client inability or unwillingness to meet obligations when adverse market movements result in a trading loss and the client’s posted margin is insufficient to satisfy the deficit; such margin deficiency may be caused by a failure to monitor client positions and accurately evaluate risk exposures, leading to our failure to require clients to post adequate initial margins or increase margins as necessary to keep pace with market movements and subsequent account deficits; • exposure to clients to whom we provide secured (i.e., collateralized), unsecured and risk-based financing lines to cover initial and variation margin and exposure to clients with whom we trade on an OTC basis for OTC transactions that are not fully collateralized; • market risk exposure due to delayed or failed settlement, which, if not corrected, could become our responsibility as a clearing broker, or which could cause us losses if we were the counterparty and principal; • exposure to the possibility that execution-only clients will not pay us, or will delay paying us, the commission owed on trades we have executed; 21 Table of Contents • exposure to the risk that a clearing member of an exchange or clearing house where we are also a clearing member may default—should the amount of the default exceed the member’s margin and clearing fund deposits, we may suffer losses as the shortfall is absorbed pro rata from the deposits of the remaining clearing members or we are subject to additional capital calls in some cases; • exposure to the risk that political or economic failure, action, or embargo imposed on or by a specific country will prevent a transaction, or prevent a client or counterparty, or a group of clients or counterparties from completing a transaction as expected; and • exposure to concentration risk, that is, a large exposure to a single client or counterparty, exposure to a group of connected clients or counterparties, or multiple exposures to a group of unrelated clients or counterparties whose risk of default is driven by common factors—for example, a similar business, industry, geographical location or product exposure. Clients and counterparties that owe us money or securities may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Our reputation may be damaged if we are associated with a client or counterparty that defaults, even if we do not have any direct losses from such an event. Although we have procedures for reviewing the creditworthiness of our clients and counterparties, the risk of default may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Some of our risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding clients and markets that is provided to us by the client or is publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. We may also be adversely affected if settlement, clearing or payment systems, such as Euroclear or Continuous Linked Settlement, become unavailable, fail or are subject to systemic delays for any reason outside our control. For an analysis of our credit risk—please refer to “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk”. Concentration of credit and market risk could expose us to potentially significant losses. Credit concentration risk is the risk arising from a large exposure to a single client or counterparty, exposure to a group of connected clients or counterparties, or multiple exposures to a group of unrelated clients or counterparties whose risk of default is driven by common factors—for example, a similar business, industry, geographical location or product exposure. While we monitor client and counterparty concentrations, our efforts to mitigate concentration risks may not be successful and we may become exposed to potentially significant losses. Market concentration risk is the risk arising from large exposures to a single financial instrument or market, group of related financial instruments or markets, or group of unrelated financial instruments or markets whose risk is driven by common factors. We may hold large position concentrations in a single issuer’s or industry’s securities or other instruments in order to execute existing or anticipated client-facilitation transactions; maintaining this inventory to facilitate client transactions exposes us to potentially higher market risk and associated losses than would occur if our positions were less concentrated. Successfully managing a concentrated market portfolio, and deriving profit from the differences between prices at which we buy and sell securities or other instruments, relies upon: • our ability to attract order flow; • market interaction and general market conditions; • the skills of our trading personnel; • the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and risk management processes; • the price volatility of the specific securities or other instruments held in inventory; and • the availability and allocation of capital. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to manage such risk successfully or that we will not experience significant losses from such activities. In addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets, such as in 2008 and part of 2009, may result in our inability to transact in certain instruments or positions held by us for client-facilitation or principal trading purposes, thereby leading to increased concentrations of those newly-illiquid positions and, subsequently, exposing us to 22 Table of Contents market concentration risk. These concentrations could expose us to losses if the mark-to-market values of the securities or other instruments or positions held on our balance sheet decline causing us to recognize losses on our financial statements. Moreover, the inability to reduce our positions not only increases the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increases the level of risk-weighted assets on our balance sheet, thereby increasing our capital requirements and funding costs, all of which could adversely affect our businesses’ operations and profitability. Our business could be adversely affected if we do not successfully implement the recent and ongoing realignment and restructuring of our business. Beginning in late 2008, we reorganized our management and the way we sell our products. A principal focus of this reorganization was the implementation of a global management approach to our various product offerings to accommodate the global nature of our company. Beginning in fiscal 2010 we increased the use of equity as part of our employees’ compensation. More recently, we have announced certain immediate tactical decisions designed to better align our resources and improve our earnings profile, including the following actions to control and reduce our costs: • intended reduction of our workforce by 10 to 15% across the entire company during our first quarter of fiscal 2011; • implementation of a firm-wide hiring freeze; • cancellation, postponement or restructuring of non-core projects and initiatives; and • setting compensation to net revenue ratio targets for every business area and the firm as a whole. We expect to incur severance and other costs in the first half of fiscal 2011 in connection with the foregoing, the amounts of which have not yet been quantified and may have an adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, we may experience difficulties in implementing these cost controls, restructuring measures and other initiatives in a timely manner, and we may experience delays and unexpected costs and expenses in implementing these plan. Any of these difficulties may prevent us from realizing in full or in part the anticipated benefits and savings from these actions. Because of these and other factors (some of which are outside of our control), we cannot predict whether we will realize the purpose and anticipated benefits of these measures. If we are unable to achieve or maintain all of these plans, or if unanticipated events occur, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. For example, we may unintentionally eliminate more positions than necessary and as a result discover either that we lack the human resources necessary for future growth or that we must hire new personnel in order to maintain an effective control environment or compliance and regulatory oversight function. In addition, we may incur more than anticipated severance or other costs because of unanticipated litigation or other issues relating to our reduction in workforce. Our shift in compensation policy and culture may also adversely affect our employees’ desire to remain with our company, and a departure of a significant number of employees could adversely affect our business. Further, if we experience additional adverse changes to our business, we may face further restructuring or reorganization activities in the future. Our business may be adversely affected if we do not maintain our network of introducing brokers. We receive a significant amount of our individual investor business through our network of introducing brokers, who assist us in establishing new client relationships for whom we execute and clear trades. Our introducing brokers also often provide marketing and other services for us to attract and retain clients for whom we execute and clear trades. We compensate these introducing brokers for introducing clients to us. Many of our relationships with introducing brokers are non-exclusive or may be terminated by the brokers with relatively short notice or no notice. In addition, our introducing brokers have no obligation to provide us with new client relationships or minimum transaction volumes. Our failure to maintain relationships with these introducing brokers or the failure of these introducing brokers to establish and maintain client relationships could result in a loss of revenues, which could adversely affect our business. To the extent any of our competitors offer more favorable compensation to one of our introducing brokers, we could lose the broker’s services or need to increase the compensation we pay to retain the broker. Our relationships with our introducing brokers also may expose us to significant reputational and other risks. See “—Risks Related to Regulation and Litigation—We could be harmed by misconduct that is difficult to detect or deter”. If we are unable to attract and maintain our highly skilled management team, brokers and other employees, our business could be adversely affected. Our performance and future success largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our business, to manage our businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing 23 Table of Contents employees. Failure to retain one or more members of our management team, particularly Jon Corzine, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or other key employees, or failure to attract skilled personnel, could adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively and execute our business strategy. Due to the complexity and risks associated with financial services and the specialized knowledge required to conduct and grow our business effectively, the demand and competition for qualified personnel is intense. Many of our brokers and traders have long-standing relationships with particular clients; the departure of any such employee could adversely affect our relationships with those clients, potentially resulting in the loss of one or more of such clients and related revenues. The time and costs required to identify, recruit and train replacements should we fail to retain our current employees could be significant. If we fail to continue to provide competitive levels of compensation, or if we otherwise fail to provide a desirable work environment, many of our employees could find employment at other firms. In particular, failure to retain and attract experienced personnel, including qualified support, compliance and technology personnel could result in execution errors or regulatory infractions. In emerging markets, we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. Our ability to retain and attract highly skilled employees—both management and non-management—could depend heavily on the level of compensation we can offer. Consequently, our profitability could decline as we compete for personnel. The imposition on us or our employees of certain of the currently proposed restrictions or taxes on employee compensation may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified senior management and employees. Our risk management policies, procedures and systems might not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us. To manage the significant risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, monitor and control our exposure to financial, operational, and business risks. For a description of our risk management approach, see “Item 1. Business—Our Business—Risk Management”. This risk management function requires, among other things, that we properly record and verify many hundreds of thousands of transactions and events each day and that we continuously monitor and evaluate the size and nature of our clients’ positions and their associated risks. Because of extremely high transaction volumes, it is not practicable for us to review and assess every single transaction or to monitor at every moment in time our clients’ positions and their attendant risks. We must rely upon our analysis of publicly or otherwise available information about markets, personnel, clients or other matters. That information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly analyzed. Further, we rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and potential failure, the challenges of which are exacerbated by the 24-hour-a-day, global nature of our business. Our risk-management framework was designed using internally-developed risk-control methods, documented historical behavior, and our observation of industry practices. However, our methods may not prevent future losses, particularly losses stemming from extreme market movements for which little or no historical precedent exists or which our risk management scenarios may not anticipate. Thus, our risk management framework may suffer from flaws in design, implementation, or the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information. Further, our risk management methods may not identify a risk or link a risk to a potential loss. If our risk management efforts are not effective, we may not prevent losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. In addition, a failure to exercise reasonable risk oversight could subject us to litigation, particularly from our clients, and sanctions or fines from regulators. The current trend toward electronic trade execution has diminished the role of some brokers in the execution process. We must continue to offer attractive, value-added services to keep pace with this trend and other industry changes or our business could be adversely affected. While clients have traditionally relied on brokers to execute trades, a growing number of exchanges have developed systems that permit orders to be routed through brokers electronically, thereby enabling clients to avoid more-costly voice-execution services and pressuring brokers to lower their execution-commission rates. In a number of cases, exchanges provide large clients with direct electronic access, enabling them to bypass brokers in the trade-execution process altogether —a trend known as “broker disintermediation”. For example, some of our largest institutional clients are now able to execute orders on some exchanges directly by electronic means and, as a result, the portion of the fees we earn from these clients for execution services has, in some cases, declined relative to the portion we earn from providing clearing services for these 24 Table of Contents trades. As exchanges devote substantial resources to developing more efficient ways for clients to execute orders with reduced broker involvement, our revenues and profitability could suffer to the extent we are unsuccessful in continuing to attract clients to execute through us by, among other things, enhancing the value-added execution services we offer. Furthermore, to maintain our client relationships as they transition to electronic trade execution, we may be required to make substantial investments in upgrading and maintaining our information technology systems and these additional expenses could further erode the profitability of servicing these clients. Additionally, market structure and practices in our industry could change significantly in other ways, including some we may not foresee, and we may not be able to adapt on a timely and cost-effective basis. To the extent that we do not adapt as rapidly or efficiently to industry changes as our competitors do, our business could suffer. Our growth strategy involves significant risks, and if we are unable to manage them effectively, our business may be materially harmed. In the past, we have significantly expanded our business both organically and through acquisitions that have extended our presence into new markets as well as delivered scale within existing markets. We intend to continue our organic growth in those product areas where we have strength or a competitive advantage. We may also opportunistically pursue acquisitions of entire brokerage units or businesses, buy client accounts from other brokers, or recruit other brokers’ client-facing personnel. Acquisitions entail numerous risks and challenges, including but not limited to the following: • difficulties in the integration and retention of acquired client accounts or personnel and, in cases where we acquire an entire company or unit, the integration and effective deployment of operations or technologies; for example, the timely transfer of client accounts is key to the success of our acquisitions, and failure to quickly integrate our software systems with those of an acquired company could result in errors or service disruptions, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain an ongoing relationship with any affected clients; • strain on our operations, information technology, compliance and financial systems, managerial controls and procedures, and our people; • the need to modify our systems or to add management resources; • unforeseen difficulties in the acquired operations, causing disruption of our ongoing business; • challenges in identifying pre-existing weaknesses or deficiencies in the acquired business’ risk management, internal controls or technology systems; • failure to achieve transaction-related cost savings or other financial, operating, or strategic objectives; • required amortization of acquired intangible assets, which would reduce future reported earnings; • possible adverse short-term effects on our cash flows or operating results, for example, when we acquire another company, we could incur severance payments and other acquisition-related costs that could reduce our net income; • increased regulatory oversight and obligations, including higher capital requirements; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • assumption of unknown material liabilities or regulatory non-compliance issues; and • failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. In addition, we may be unable to pursue our acquisition strategy. Competition for suitable acquisition targets is intense. Many of our largest competitors have substantially greater financial resources than we do and are able to outbid us on the most desirable targets. We may lack the financial resources necessary to consummate acquisitions in the future or may be unable to secure financing on favorable terms. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition targets, or to complete any transactions we identify on sufficiently favorable terms, to meet our strategic goals. We also may be unable to obtain regulatory or other governmental approvals that may be necessary to complete acquisitions. In addition, any future acquisitions may entail significant transaction costs and risks associated with entry into new markets. Even when we complete an acquisition, we may not realize the benefits we expected to attain. Organic growth presents risks similar to those associated with acquisitions. In particular, if we expand our operations too rapidly or otherwise beyond our ability to manage them effectively, we could encounter serious operational issues and expose ourselves to increased operational and perhaps regulatory risk. For example, we may lack sufficient personnel with the requisite expertise or skills to manage or oversee new products or businesses. Organic growth may also require us to increase our capital or other financial resources, the cost of which, depending on market conditions, may be prohibitive. 25 Table of Contents Both organic growth and growth by acquisition may impair our ability to manage risk and ensure regulatory compliance, which may result in financial loss or regulatory violations, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage risks that arise from both acquisitions and organic growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. MF Global Holdings Ltd. is a holding company and its liquidity depends, in part, on payments from its subsidiaries, which are subject to restrictions. MF Global Holdings Ltd., is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. Many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer and our regulated UK subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to our parent. In addition, our broker-dealer and our regulated subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage accounts to fund their businesses. Additional restrictions on related-party transactions, increased capital requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of our parent and even require our parent to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. Restrictions or regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that we need to make payments on our obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Furthermore, we guarantee many of the obligations of our consolidated subsidiaries. These guarantees may require us to provide substantial funds or assets to our subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when we are in need of liquidity to fund our own obligations. See “Business—Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may be required to recognize further impairments of our goodwill or other intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The determination of the value of goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. We are required to test goodwill for impairment annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value may be impaired. We assess potential impairments to intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to goodwill and intangible assets are based on several factors, which include: • the operational performance of our acquired businesses; • management’s current business plans, which factor in current market conditions including contract and product volumes and pricing for future periods; • the estimated fair value and yield of our debt, preferred securities, and equity, market capitalization; • the trading price of our common stock; • changes in customer attrition and trading volumes; and • other relevant factors. When estimating impairment assessments, management uses discounted cash flow analysis, which requires the subjective selection and interpretation of data inputs; depending on market conditions at the testing date, a very limited amount of observable market data may exist from which to select inputs for use in the discounted cash flow model. In fiscal 2010, our market capitalization was significantly lower than our book value. We performed impairment tests of our goodwill and during the year ended March 31, 2010, we recognized a charge of $3.4 million to impair all of our goodwill. Also during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we recorded a charge of $50.6 million to impair certain intangible assets. These non-cash charges materially impacted our equity and results of operations in 2010, but did not affect our ongoing business operations, liquidity, cash flow or compliance with covenants for our credit facilities. We may record additional goodwill in future periods related to our existing earn out arrangements or future acquisitions. 26 Table of Contents Changes to our business plan, continued macroeconomic weakness, declines in operating results, and continued low market capitalization may result in our having to perform an interim goodwill impairment test or an intangible asset impairment test. These types of events and the resulting analysis could result in further goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in future periods. We have recorded significant deferred tax assets reflecting our expectation of carrying certain losses forward against future income in certain jurisdictions. If we are unable to generate positive earnings in such jurisdictions, we may be forced record valuation allowances against previously-booked deferred tax assets, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial results. In certain jurisdictions, we have generated pre-tax losses that, in accordance with applicable tax law, we expect to be able to carry forward and offset against future profits to reduce relevant taxes going forward. We have recorded significant deferred tax assets reflecting our expectation of using these loss carryforwards against future income. If we are not able to generate profits in these jurisdictions in future periods, we may be required to record valuations allowances against these deferred tax assets. Recording valuation allowances against these deferred tax assets could have a significant adverse impact on our financial results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL NEEDS AND FINANCIAL POSITION We must maintain substantial amounts of capital and liquidity to conduct and grow our business. If we have insufficient capital and liquidity we may not be able to maintain our operations or grow our business in accordance with our strategy. Our ability to provide clearing services, which is a critical part of our business, depends heavily on our ability to maintain capital, including equity capital at or above specified minimum levels required by various regulators throughout the world. Our failure to do so could expose us to significant penalties and sanctions, which we describe under “—Risks Related to Regulation and Litigation—We are subject to regulatory capital requirements which could constrain our growth and subject us to regulatory sanctions”. We also need capital and liquidity to protect us against the risk of default by our clearing clients and against clearing and settlement payment delays, caused by systemic problems outside our control in one country or between countries. Therefore, we may maintain capital and liquidity at levels determined in accordance with our internal risk management guidelines that could be greater than regulatory requirements. Thus, as a clearing broker, we must maintain capital and liquidity not only to comply with applicable laws and regulations, but to manage the risks inherent in our clearing operations in accordance with guidelines that we believe to be appropriate. If our risk management guidelines are insufficient or if we do not apply them properly we may not hold capital or liquidity to cover our needs. To the extent the levels we hold either at group or in an individual entity are insufficient, the firm and/or the entity is exposed to failure. Our credit ratings could be adversely affected if we do not maintain sufficient capital and liquidity. Furthermore, we rely on uncommitted credit lines to finance our day-to-day clearing operations. Liquidity or capital issues, whether perceived or real, could prompt these lenders to reduce the amount of financing we use to conduct our clearing operations, which in turn could prompt us to reduce the amount of business we conduct and could accelerate client withdrawals. Thus, if we are unable to maintain capital at levels that the rating agencies or the market generally consider appropriate for our business, if we experience actual or perceived liquidity issues, or if for any other reason the market loses confidence in our financial condition, we may not be able to provide competitive clearing services, which are a major part of our business, and our clients could withdraw assets from their accounts, which could impair a substantial source of our interest income. Generally, clients clear their trades—and clearinghouses and other clearing firms deal—only with firms that are regarded as well capitalized and that maintain acceptable credit ratings from the independent rating agencies, such as Standard and Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch. Generally, principal trading activities have higher regulatory capital requirements than agency execution and clearing activities. Accordingly, our facilitation of client transactions through our principal trading activities could be curtailed if we do not have access to adequate capital and liquidity. Therefore, we must maintain continuous access to adequate and sufficiently liquid sources of capital, including equity capital and external committed facilities on acceptable terms. Failure to do so could have severe consequences from a regulatory, operational or credit counterparty and solvency perspective. Even a less severe outcome, such as retaining the ability to obtain capital and liquidity but only at a higher cost, could significantly increase our interest expense and impair our earnings. 27 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by a reduction in our credit ratings. If we do not demonstrate sufficient profitability in the future, we face the possibility of having our credit rating downgraded. In the event of a downgrade of our credit rating by one or more credit rating agencies, our business may be adversely affected. Some of the factors that could lead to a downgrade in our credit rating have been described in reports issued by certain rating agencies, and these factors include, but are not limited to, our profitability each quarter as compared against rating agency expectations, our ability to maintain a conservative liquidity profile, our ability to maintain the value of our franchise, deterioration in our trading volumes or operating cash flows, and a decline in maintenance margin funds or excess capital levels at our regulated subsidiaries. A reduction in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs or trigger our obligations under certain bilateral provisions in some of our collateralized financing contracts or our bilateral contracts in the OTC markets. Under these provisions, if one or more of our credit ratings were decreased, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts made with us or require us to post additional collateral pursuant to ratings maintenance requirements. Termination of our OTC contracts or collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. Should we be unable to readily access capital and liquidity, our clients may be unwilling to clear their transactions through us. A reduction in our credit ratings could harm the way we are perceived by clients and could limit our attractiveness as a counterparty in OTC transactions. In addition, any announcement by a rating agency that our credit rating is being downgraded, or even that we are being placed on “negative watch”, could have a serious adverse impact on our operating results and our financial condition, as was the case following the February 2008 unauthorized trading incident when we were put on “negative watch” by our rating agencies and downgraded by two out of three of them. Moreover, concerns about our credit ratings may limit our ability to pursue acquisitions and, to the extent we pursue acquisitions that affect our credit ratings, our business may suffer. To avoid placing our credit rating at risk, we may need to limit the growth of our business, or we may even need to reduce our operations or other expenses to improve profitability. A credit-rating downgrade could also compel us to raise additional capital on unfavorable terms, which could result in substantial additional interest or other expenses and lower earnings. If we were forced to raise equity capital, that action could result in substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could reduce our earnings. Our revenues and expenses are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, British pounds and Euros. The largest percentage of our revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, while the largest percentage of our non-U.S. expenses is denominated in British pounds and Euros. As a result, our earnings could be affected by changes in the U.S. dollar/British pound and U.S. dollar/Euro exchange rate and, to a lesser extent, changes in the U.S. dollar versus Asian currencies. Such changes have occurred in recent years, exerting downward or upward pressure on our earnings. Although we may seek to mitigate our exposure to currency exchange rates through hedging transactions in accordance with our policies on hedging, these efforts may not always be successful. For example, we realized net currency translation gains of $12.6 million for fiscal 2009 and $3.9 million for fiscal 2008, but a net currency translation loss of $15.6 million for fiscal 2010. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Market Risk.” Adverse trends in currency exchange rates could have a harmful effect on our earnings, and although we have realized net currency translation gains in some recent periods, we could incur significant currency translation losses in the future. Moreover, changes in currency exchange rates from one period to the next could make historical and future period-to-period comparisons of our performance more difficult. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations due to seasonality and, as a result, our operating results in any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of our future or annual performance. In prior years, our business has experienced seasonal fluctuations, reflecting reduced trading activity during summer months, particularly in August. We also generally experience reduced trading activity in December due to seasonal holidays. In addition, trading in some commodity derivatives, such as energy, is affected by the supply of, and demand for, the underlying commodity, which is seasonal and may change significantly. We also may experience reduced revenues in a quarter due to a decrease in the number of business days in that quarter. As a result of these seasonal fluctuations, our operating results in any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of our future or annual performance. 28 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO REGULATION AND LITIGATION We operate in a heavily regulated environment that imposes significant compliance requirements. Non-compliance with these requirements could subject us to sanctions and adversely affect our business. We are extensively regulated by governmental bodies and self-regulatory organizations worldwide. Many of the regulations we are governed by are intended to protect the public, our clients and the integrity of the markets, and not necessarily our shareholders. In the United Kingdom, we are principally regulated by the Financial Services Authority, or FSA. In the United States, we are principally regulated in the futures markets by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), and in the securities markets by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE). Further, as participants in the financial services industry, our business must comply with the anti-money laundering laws of the jurisdictions in which we do business, including, in the U.S., the USA PATRIOT Act, which requires us to know certain information about our clients and to monitor their transactions for suspicious activities. Our business is also subject to rules promulgated by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, which require that we refrain from doing business, or allow our clients to do business through us, in certain countries or with certain organizations or individuals on a prohibited list maintained by the U.S. government. We are also regulated in all regions by local regulatory authorities and the various exchanges of which we are members. For example, we are regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the Securities and Exchange Board of India, and the Australian Securities and Investment Commission, among others. These regulators and self-regulatory organizations influence the conduct of our business and regularly examine our business to monitor our compliance with their regulatory requirements. Among other things, we are subject to regulation with regard to: • our sales practices, including our interaction with and solicitation of clients and our marketing activities; • the custody, control and safeguarding of our clients’ assets; • account statements, record keeping and retention; • maintaining specified minimum amounts of capital and limiting withdrawals of funds from our regulated operating subsidiaries; • regular financial and other reporting to regulators; • anti-money laundering and other reporting practices; • licensing for our operating subsidiaries and our employees; • identifying our clients and determining the beneficial ownership of assets held by our clients, gathering required information about them and monitoring their account activities; • payments made to foreign-government officials and control practices designed to prevent such payments; • the conduct of our directors, officers, employees and affiliates; and • supervision of our business. We face risks that our policies, procedures, technology and personnel directed toward complying with the foregoing types of laws and regulations may be insufficient and that we could be subject to significant regulatory, criminal and civil penalties due to non-compliance. These penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. See “Item 1. Business—Our Business—Regulation and Exchange Memberships” for further discussion of these matters. Many of the laws and regulations by which we are governed grant regulators broad powers to investigate and enforce compliance with their rules and regulations and to impose penalties and other sanctions for non-compliance. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”. If a regulator finds that we have failed to comply with its rules and regulations, we may be subject to fines or other sanctions, which could adversely affect our reputation and operations. In particular, certain of the requirements that we must comply with are focused on protecting our individual investor clients. If we fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of our business, removal of personnel, civil litigation or other sanctions, including, in some cases, increased reporting requirements or other undertakings, revocation of our operating licenses or criminal conviction. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, particularly from our retail clients, we may also be subject to the loss of clients, negative publicity and litigation. Our ability to monitor compliance with all applicable laws and regulations is dependent in large part on our internal compliance function as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. Non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues and earnings. 29 Table of Contents The regulatory environment in which we and our clients operate is subject to continual change. The legislative and regulatory environment in which we operate has undergone significant changes in the recent past and future regulatory changes in our industry are likely given the events observed since 2008. The governmental bodies and self-regulatory organizations that regulate our business may propose and consider additional legislative and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations. As a result, in the future, we or our clients may become subject to new regulations that could affect the way in which we conduct our business and could make our business less profitable. For example, recent market disruptions have led to numerous proposals in the United States and internationally for changes in the regulation and taxation of the financial services industry, including increased capital or new liquidity or leverage requirements, any of which could adversely affect us or our clients and the way we operate. On May 20, 2010, the U.S. Senate approved a bill relating to financial reform entitled the “Restoring American Financial Stability Act of 2010” and in December 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives approved a financial reform bill entitled the “Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009”. Both bills propose significant changes to the U.S. financial regulatory system, the way financial institutions operate and the way that these institutions are structured. Although it is too early to predict how the proposed financial reform bills when and if they are reconciled and enacted will affect our business and operations, this legislation could adversely affect our business or operations directly (if, for example, the enacted legislation prohibits a practices or transactions in which we now engage) or indirectly (if, for example, our clients’ business and operations are adversely affected). Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations by our regulators may also adversely affect our business. In addition, changes in the regulatory enforcement environment may create uncertainty over certain practices or types of transactions that in the past were considered permissible and appropriate among financial services firms, but that later have been called into question or have had additional regulatory requirements imposed on them. Legal or regulatory uncertainty and additional regulatory requirements could result in a loss of business. As discussed above, new and changing regulatory requirements may make it more difficult or less profitable for us to operate our business. We are subject to regulatory capital requirements which could constrain our growth and subject us to regulatory sanctions. The CFTC, SEC, FSA and other U.S. and non-U.S. regulators require us to maintain specific minimum levels of regulatory capital in our operating subsidiaries that conduct our futures and securities business. As of March 31, 2010, we were required to maintain approximately $1.2 billion minimum capital, which includes regulatory early warning requirements, in the aggregate across all jurisdictions (including $45.9 million in respect of goodwill and other intangible assets). Regulators require a minimum amount of shareholders’ equity to support the regulatory requirements, the percentage of which will vary by regulator and jurisdiction, while the balance of the regulatory requirements may be satisfied by subordinated liabilities. We generally maintain total regulatory capital in excess of the minimum requirements in order to meet our internal risk management guidelines and, as a result, our capital costs could be substantially higher than those attributable solely to applicable regulatory or self-regulatory requirements. Regulators continue to evaluate and modify regulatory capital requirements from time to time in response to market events and to improve the stability of the international financial system. For example, in the UK, the FSA periodically reviews and assesses our company and the businesses that we operate to determine the minimum capital requirements that our UK regulated entities must maintain. Even if regulators do not change existing regulations or adopt new ones, our minimum capital requirements could generally increase in proportion to the size of the business conducted by our regulated subsidiaries as noted above. If we are unable to cost-effectively meet higher regulatory capital requirements we may not be able to expand our operations and increase our revenues. In addition, our ability to allocate our capital resources most efficiently throughout our global operations may be constrained to the extent that we are not permitted to withdraw regulatory capital (including excess regulatory capital) maintained by our subsidiaries without prior regulatory approval or notice. In particular, these restrictions could limit our ability to withdraw funds needed to satisfy our ongoing operating expenses, debt service and other cash needs. Regulators monitor our levels of capital closely. We are required to report periodically the amount of regulatory capital we maintain to our regulators on a regular basis, and we must report any deficiencies or material declines promptly. While we expect that our current amount of regulatory capital will be sufficient to meet anticipated short-term increases in requirements, any failure to maintain the required levels of regulatory capital, or to report any capital deficiencies or material declines in capital could result in severe sanctions, including fines, censure, restrictions on our ability to conduct business 30 Table of Contents and suspension or revocation of our registrations. The imposition of one or more of these sanctions could ultimately lead to our liquidation, or the liquidation of one or more of our subsidiaries. For more information on the minimum regulatory capital requirements for our subsidiaries, see “Item 1. Business—Our Business—Regulation and Exchange Memberships”. We could be harmed by misconduct that is difficult to detect and deter. A number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of financial services firms have come to light in recent years. Like our peers, we are exposed to risks relating to misconduct by our employees, our clients’ employees, introducing brokers or other third parties with whom we have relationships. For example, our employees could execute unauthorized transactions for our clients, for themselves or any of our accounts; use client assets improperly or without authorization; perform improper activities on behalf of clients; use confidential client or company information for improper purposes; or mis-record or otherwise try to hide improper activities from us. Such exposures could be heightened in the case of individual investors’ accounts over which our brokers, in limited circumstances, exercise discretionary authority. Misconduct by employees of our clients could also expose us to claims for financial losses or regulatory proceedings when it is alleged that we or our employees knew or should have known that an employee of our client was not authorized to undertake certain transactions. Dissatisfied clients could make claims against us, including but not limited to claims for negligence, fraud, unauthorized trading, failure to supervise, inadequate disclosure of risks, breach of fiduciary duty, intentional misconduct or unauthorized transactions. Although we do not control the activities of our introducing brokers, we could be held responsible for their improper conduct. If an introducing broker executes trades through us that are improper or unauthorized, our regulators could hold us responsible if they were to conclude that we knew or should have known that the trades were unlawful. Moreover, a substantial number of our introducing brokers in the United States are “guaranteed” introducing brokers, meaning that we have agreed to use our capital to effectively guarantee their capital in exchange for their agreement to affect client trades exclusively through us. Under the Commodity Exchange Act, we are financially responsible for the obligations of our guaranteed introducing brokers, and we are also effectively responsible for their obligation to comply with the Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC rules and regulations. Because we cannot exercise the same level of control and oversight over a “guaranteed introducing broker” as compared to our employees, our financial responsibilities for the obligations of our “guaranteed introducing brokers” present additional risk to our company. Accordingly, employee or introducing broker misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Our controls may not be effective in detecting this type of activity. Inadvertent employee error could subject us to financial loss, litigation, or regulatory action. Our employees or introducing brokers may commit errors that could subject us to financial losses, claims for negligence or regulatory actions. Employee errors, including but not limited to, mistakes in executing, recording or reporting transactions for clients, could cause us to enter transactions that clients disavow and refuse to settle. Employee errors expose us to the risk of material losses until the errors are detected and the transactions are unwound or reversed. The risk of employee error or miscommunication may be greater for products that are new or have non-standardized terms. Further, such errors may be more likely to occur in the aftermath of any acquisitions during the integration of or migration from technological systems. We are subject to significant litigation risk, which could adversely affect our business. Many aspects of our business involve risks that expose us to substantial liability under U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws and court decisions, as well as the rules and enforcement efforts of our regulators and self-regulatory organizations worldwide. These risks include, among others, disputes with clients and other market participants over terms of a trade, client losses resulting from system delay or failure and client claims that we or our employees executed unauthorized transactions, recommended unsuitable trades, made materially false or misleading statements or lost or diverted client assets in our custody. We may also be subject to regulatory investigation and enforcement actions seeking to impose significant fines or other sanctions, which in turn could trigger civil litigation. The volume of claims and the amount of damages and fines claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial intermediaries have continued to increase. The large notional values of the trades we execute, together with rapid price movements in our markets, could result in potentially large damage claims in any litigation resulting from trading activity. Dissatisfied clients, particularly individual investors, frequently make claims against their brokers, including us, regarding the quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud, and these claims may increase as our business expands. Litigation may also arise from disputes over the exercise of our rights with respect to client accounts and 31 Table of Contents collateral and our efforts to recover client debits. We are obligated to defend ourselves in many client disputes by means of arbitration: arbitral decisions resolving these disputes may be based on perceived equities rather than solely upon legal precedent, and accordingly, our losses in connection with arbitration awards are difficult to estimate for purposes of settlement negotiations and for the purposes of creating appropriate loss reserves. Even if we prevail in any litigation or enforcement proceedings against us, we could incur significant legal expenses defending against the claims, even those without merit. Moreover, because even meritless claims could damage our reputation or raise concerns among our clients, we may feel compelled to settle claims at significant cost. An adverse resolution of any claims or proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition or operating results. For example, the Commercial Court in London ruled last year that we must pay a former client approximately $30 million in compensation for damages suffered as a result of fraudulent misrepresentations made over seven years ago by a former broker. As a result, in addition to the monetary loss sanctioned by the court, we may also suffer reputational harm even though these losses occurred over seven years ago before we were an independent company. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”. In addition, we may be named as one of a number of defendants in a matter that attracts significant public attention and even if we are ultimately found not to be the main liable party and even if we have no legal liability, our reputation could be adversely affected, and as a result, our business could be adversely affected as well. Our business may be adversely affected if our reputation is harmed. Our business is subject to significant reputational risks. If we fail, or appear to fail, to address various issues that may affect our reputation, our business, firm and shareholders could be seriously harmed. Issues could include real or perceived legal or regulatory violations or be the result of a failure in governance, risk-management, technology or operations. Similarly, market rumors and actual or perceived association with counterparties whose own reputation is under question could seriously harm our business. Claims of employee misconduct, adverse publicity, conflict of interests, ethical issues, money laundering, privacy concerns and unfair sales and trading practices could also cause significant reputational damages. Such reputational damage could result not only in an immediate financial loss to the business, but also loss of clients, capital, liquidity and shareholder value to the firm. In recent years, a number of financial services firms have suffered significant damage to their reputations from highly publicized incidents or rumors that in turn resulted in sudden and in some cases irreparable harm to their business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS AND TECHNOLOGY A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our business, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses. Rapid, reliable processing of orders and information is critical to our business and our clients, since any delay or disruption could cause significant financial losses. Moreover, if our clients become concerned about the reliability of our systems, they could quickly move their business to our competitors. Our computer and communications systems could slow down, malfunction or fail for a variety of reasons, including loss of power, vendor or network failure, acts of war or terrorism, human error, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses or worms, heavy stress placed on our systems during peak trading times, intentional acts of vandalism, client error or misuse, lack of proper maintenance or monitoring and similar events. Our systems could also fail in the event of a sudden, unpredicted surge in trading volume, which could occur in times of severe market stress. Many of these risks are beyond our control. If events of the kind described above were to occur in the future, they could cause material disruption or failure of our computer and communications systems, with any number of severe consequences, including: • unanticipated disruptions to our business and operations; • unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; • slower response times; • delays in our or our clients’ trade execution; • failed settlement of trades; and • incomplete or inaccurate recording, reporting or processing of trades. 32 Table of Contents Any upgrades or expansions to our systems or networks may require significant expenditures of funds and may also increase the probability that we could suffer system degradations and failures. Relocations of our data center or offices, such as our planned London and New York office relocations, are logistically and technically complicated, and may increase the probability that we suffer system degradation or failure. Future system expansions, implementations, back-ups and disaster recovery plans may not be effective and may not address unanticipated or predicted trading volume increases or service disruption scenarios entirely. The same may be true for our third-party service providers. If enhancements or upgrades of third-party software and systems cannot be integrated with our technologies or if the technologies on which we rely fail to respond to industry standards or technological changes, we may be required to design our own proprietary systems. Software products may contain defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Delay, disruption or failure of our communications and computer systems may lead to financial losses, litigation, arbitration claims by our clients, or investigations and sanctions by our regulators. Our reputation could also be harmed, causing us to lose existing clients and business and making it more difficult for us to attract new clients. Further, any resulting financial losses could be magnified by price movements of contracts involved in trades that are delayed or fail due to these events, and we may be unable to take corrective action to mitigate these losses. Our systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks, which could, among other things, result in wrongful use of our information, or make our electronic platforms unattractive to participants. The networks we use, including our online trading platforms and those of our third-party service providers, as well as the networks of the exchanges and other market participants with whom we interact, may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems, including the inadvertent dissemination of non-public information. Any such problems or security breaches could result in our having liability to one or more third parties. Persons who circumvent security measures or gain access to client information could wrongfully use our or our clients’ information, or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. While we rely in part on security services and software provided by outside vendors to reduce this risk, we may nonetheless be subject to serious security breaches and other disruptions. If an actual, threatened or perceived breach of our or our service providers’ security measures were to occur, or if we were to release confidential client information inadvertently, our reputation could be impaired and the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed. As a result, clients may reduce or stop their use of our services, including our online trading platforms. We or our service providers may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. The security measures we rely on may prove to be inadequate and could cause incidental system failures and delays, and thus could lower trading volumes and adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. Further, breaches in client privacy could result in legal fines or penalties. We rely on third-party providers and other suppliers for a number of services that are important to our business. An interruption or cessation of an important service or supply by any third party could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on a number of suppliers, such as third-party electronic platforms to process trades, online service providers, hosting service and software providers, data processors, software and hardware vendors, banks, and telephone companies, for elements of our trading, clearing and other systems. The general trend toward industry consolidation may increase the risk that these services may not be available to us in the future. Moreover, we rely on access to certain data used in our business through licenses with third parties. If these companies were to discontinue providing services to us, we would likely experience significant disruption to our business. We cannot provide assurance that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. We also cannot assure you that any of these providers will not terminate our business relationship with them for competitive reasons or otherwise. An interruption in or the cessation of an important service or supply by any third party and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner, or at all, would result in lost revenues and higher costs. In addition, even if we made alternative arrangements, these arrangements may prove to be less effective or reliable or more costly. Further, changing systems 33 Table of Contents could also result in service interruptions or failures during an initial transition period, which could subject us to loss, including loss of client business, and make us less competitive over the longer term. We must regularly maintain and upgrade our computer and communications systems in response to technological change and client and regulatory demands in order to remain competitive, which is resource intensive. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving client demand and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing technology and systems inadequate or obsolete. Our future success depends in part on our ability to respond to demand for new services, products and technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to adapt to technological advancements and changing standards, so as to address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our clients and prospective clients. We may not be successful in developing, introducing or marketing new services, products and technologies. Any new service, product or technology we develop may not be accepted by the market. Any failure on our part to anticipate or respond adequately to technological advancements, client requirements or changing industry standards, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We must also devote resources to the regular maintenance of our systems, which, together with any necessary upgrades or expansions, could require significant expenditures of funds. We depend on outside vendors to provide some of the principal computerized systems we use to execute and clear client trades. Our ability to modify these outside systems is limited. As a result, as our markets expand and our clients’ trading and investment needs evolve, we may need to develop further our own proprietary systems to supplement or even replace some existing systems. That process would require a very significant capital investment and could involve difficult transition periods when service may be interrupted or may fail. If and when we decide, or are required, to upgrade or expand our systems (including our own proprietary systems), we may not have the funds necessary and the changes we make or undertake to make may not be successful or accepted by our clients. Our failure to maintain our systems as necessary or to upgrade and expand them in response to evolving client demands or emerging industry standards would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO THE CHANGE IN OUR JURISDICTION OF INCORPORATION Our Corporate Effective Tax Rate may increase as a result of becoming a U.S. domiciled corporation. We changed the jurisdiction of incorporation of our parent company, MF Global Holdings Ltd. (formerly MF Global Ltd.), from Bermuda to Delaware, which change is referred to as the “Domestication”. As a result of the Domestication, we became subject to U.S. tax on our income and capital gains. As a result, our corporate effective tax rate may increase significantly, which could materially impact our financial results, including our earnings and cash flow, for periods after the Domestication. Our corporate effective tax rate, which fluctuates significantly from period to period, is based upon the application of currently applicable income tax laws, regulations and treaties, as well as current judicial and administrative interpretations of these income tax laws, regulations and treaties, in various jurisdictions, including many other than the jurisdiction where our parent is organized and domiciled. The highest statutory corporate tax rate for U.S. federal income tax purposes is 35%. Our effective tax rate for purposes of financial reporting may, however, vary significantly from the statutory rates under which we operate (including the U.S. statutory rate that would apply after the Domestication) because of, among other things, timing differences in the recognition of income and expense for U.S. GAAP and tax purposes, and differences in how each jurisdiction in which we operate treats the same item of income or expense. We are unable to predict the impact of the Domestication on our effective tax rate going forward for future years. In addition, the tax laws of the United States and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and those changes could cause a material increase in our effective tax rate at a later date as well. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 34 Table of Contents 