Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our 37 common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. A continued slowdown in the housing market may have a negative impact on our earnings and liquidity position. The overall credit quality of our loan portfolio is directly affected by the strength of the U.S. economy, in particular the strength of the economy in Washington state as well as the local economies in which we conduct our lending operations. Trends in residential housing prices also have an impact on the loan portfolio. We continually monitor changes in key economic factors such as unemployment and housing prices because changes in these factors can impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. Across the United States over the past year, the housing market has experienced significant adverse trends, including accelerated price depreciation and rising delinquency and default rates. These conditions led to significant increases in loan delinquencies and credit losses as well as increased provisions for loan losses which in turn have had a negative affect on earnings for many banks across the country. The Pacific Northwest did not experienced the same adverse economic conditions until the fourth quarter of 2007. At that time there were signs that our local economy was beginning to experience some price deprecation and rising delinquency and default rates. The current slowdown in the housing market may continue to cause housing inventories to increase and slow ongoing housing developments, putting more downward pressure on sales prices. Despite reduced home prices, the lack of liquidity in the housing market and tightening of credit standards within the banking industry may continue to affect all home sales, further reducing cash flow and weakening borrowers= ability to repay their debt obligations to us. As a result we may experience a further negative material impact on our earnings and liquidity positions. The lack of diversification in our loan portfolio may hurt both our asset quality and profits. With substantially all of our loans secured by real property and concentrated in the State of Washington, and specifically, 57.12%, 24.78%, and 5.15% of our total loan portfolio concentrated in King, Pierce and Snohomish counties, Washington, respectively, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. While one- to four-family first mortgages remain the largest portion of our loan portfolio, our operating strategy has included an increased emphasis on the expansion of construction/land development, and commercial real estate and multi-family lending and a decrease in the overall percentage of one- to four-family loans in our loan portfolio. In addition, although these loans are intended to enhance the average yield of our earning assets, they do involve a different, and possibly higher, level of risk of delinquency or collection than generally associated with loan portfolios of more traditional community banks because, among other factors, these loans involve larger balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. In this regard, at December 31, 2007, approximately $103.3 million or 11.73% of our total loan portfolio, net consisted of construction/land development loans to five real estate builders and their affiliates. As a result of this lending concentration, and since construction/land development loans generally have large balances, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectibility of these loans, we may need to significantly increase our provision for loan losses since any resulting charge-offs will be larger on a per loan basis. Consequently, this could materially adversely affect our future earnings. Further, if we lost our relationship with one or more of these large borrowers our liquidity would substantially increase and our future earnings could be adversely affected. Our business strategy may result in increased volatility of earnings. Our business strategy is focused on diversifying our construction portfolio among more builders with less concentration per builder. In addition First Savings Bank is planning greater expansion in consumer and commercial real estate lending. These types of lending activities, while potentially more profitable than single-family lending, 38 are generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. While economic trends in Western Washington State show signs of weakening and may contribute to a decline in real estate values, which would reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans and increase the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers defaulted on their loans. In addition, the repayment of commercial real estate loans and apartment loans generally is dependent, in large part, on the successful operation of the property securing the loan or the business conducted on the property securing the loan. Also, loan balances for commercial real estate and residential construction tract loans are typically larger than those for permanent single-family and consumer loans. Accordingly, when there are defaults and losses on these types of loans, they are often larger on a per loan basis than those for permanent single-family and consumer loans. A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate and construction loans is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. Our business strategy includes significant growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We expect to experience growth in the amount of our assets, the level of our deposits and the scale of our operations. Achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers that currently bank with other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. In addition, to the extent we expand our lending beyond our current market area, we could incur additional risk related to those new market areas. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to attract and retain experienced bankers, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market area and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan, and our business and prospects could be harmed. We need to add additional executive officers and integrate these executive officers into our current operations. Historically, as a result of operating a traditional thrift institution from one office, we had very few officers and employees. As a result of our growth and more complex operations, we added a chief financial officer effective February 19, 2008, and we need to add a credit risk officer as well as a financial analyst with emphasis on interest rate risk managment. Because of the many management positions currently filled by Mr. Karpiak, any management personnel recruited by us will need to interact successfully with him. It may be difficult to find qualified personnel willing to work within our organizational structure knowing that Mr. Karpiak, who has previously served in their capacity, is now supervising the position. These employees will be important to our operations and our inability to fill these positions could make continued growth difficult. Furthermore, these employees must be successfully integrated with our other personnel, which involves combining individuals with different business backgrounds, corporate cultures, and management styles, while retaining other key employees. The process of hiring these executive officers and integrating them into our organization could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our operations, including the loss of customers and key personnel. The loss of our current Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer may hurt First Financial Northwest=s and First Savings Bank=s operations because it may be difficult to hire qualified replacements. The loss of our Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Victor Karpiak, could have a material adverse impact on the operations of First Savings Bank since he has been instrumental in managing the business affairs of First Savings Bank. Other officers within First Savings Bank do not have the experience and expertise to readily replace Mr. Karpiak. If First Savings Bank were to lose Mr. Karpiak, the board of directors would most likely have to search outside of First Savings Bank for a qualified, permanent replacement. This search may be prolonged and we cannot assure you that First Savings Bank would be able to locate and hire a qualified replacement without interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our operations. 39 Mr. Karpiak has a significant amount of responsibility for the operations of First Savings Bank and performs a number of different roles. As a result we face unique operational and internal control challenges because of our reliance on him, which also makes risk management and general supervisory oversight more difficult. We believe we have adequate risk management procedures and internal control systems in place, however, there can be no assurance that errors will not occur or that we will be able to maintain effective internal controls in the future. Any future failure to maintain effective internal controls could impair the reliability of our financial statements which in turn could harm our business, impair investor confidence and subject us to regulatory penalties. Our business is subject to various lending risks which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our business strategy centers on the continued transition to commercial banking activities in order to expand our net interest margin. Consistent with this strategy, we acquired Executive House to increase the percentage of our assets consisting of construction/land development loans. We are working to further reduce the percentage of our assets that are lower-yielding residential loans and mortgage-backed securities by focusing on consumer lending, commercial real estate and multi-family loans that have higher risk-adjusted returns. Since December 31, 2003 we have increased the amount of our construction/land development loans from 3.90% to 28.82% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2007 while reducing our one- to four-family residential loans from 60.81% to 42.45% of our total loan portfolio over the same period. Our increasing focus on these types of lending will continue to increase our risk profile relative to traditional thrift institutions as we continue to implement our business strategy for the following reasons: Construction Loans. We make land purchase, lot development and real estate construction loans to individuals and builders, primarily for the construction of residential properties. We will originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. Residential real estate construction loans include single-family tract construction loans for the construction of entry level residential homes. Over the last three years, we have significantly increased the amount of construction/land development loans in our loan portfolio, both in dollar amounts and as a percentage of our total loans. At December 31, 2007, $288.4 million or 28.82% of our total loan portfolio consisted of construction/land development loans primarily to builders of residential properties. Of this amount, $103.1 million in total, or $81.0 million, net of loans in process, are loans with three builders. At December 31, 2007, we had an additional $14.8 million, or 1.48% of our total loan portfolio in construction loans for one- to four-family properties that convert to permanent loans, which are classified in the one- to four-family category. Also at that date, we had an additional $15.5 million, or 1.55% of our total loan portfolio in construction loans on commercial real estate loans that convert to permanent loans, which are commercial loans. There were no multi-family construction loans that convert to permanent loans at December 31, 2007. Our construction/land development loans are based upon estimates of costs and values associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate. Construction/land development lending involves additional risks when compared with permanent residential lending because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. This type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. In addition, generally during the term of a construction/land development loan, no payment from the borrower is generally required since the accumulated interest is added to the principal of the loan through an interest reserve. These loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of a completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. Our ability to continue to originate a significant amount of construction loans is dependent on the continued strength of the housing market in King, Pierce and Snohomish counties, Washington which has recently shown signs 40 of weakening. Further, if we lost our relationship with one or more of our larger borrowers building in these counties or there is a decline in the demand for new housing in these counties, it is expected that the demand for construction loans would decline, our liquidity would substantially increase and our net income would be adversely affected. Commercial Real Estate Loans. We originate commercial real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes which are secured by commercial real estate. At December 31, 2007, $204.8 million or 20.46% of our total loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate loans, including commercial real estate construction loans of $15.5 million. The credit risk related to commercial real estate loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to four-family residential or consumer loans because the repayment of commercial real estate loans typically is dependent on the income stream of the real estate securing the loan as collateral and the successful operation of the borrower=s business, which can be significantly affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the economy. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower=s project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower=s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In addition, many of our commercial real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. These balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the balloon payment. If we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, as a result of our increasing emphasis on this type of lending, a large portion of our commercial real estate loan portfolio is relatively unseasoned and has not been subjected to unfavorable economic conditions. As a result we may not have enough payment history with which to judge future collectibility or to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, commercial real estate loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectibility of our commercial real estate loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. Multi-family Residential Real Estate Loans. Our multi-family loans are subject to collateral risk similar to other real estate secured products. While our primary lending markets have experienced strong demand for affordable housing, valuations have increased significantly over the past several years and could be negatively impacted by a decrease in investor demand. At December 31, 2007, $76.0 million or 7.60% of our total loan portfolio consisted of multi-family residential real estate loans. We had no multi-family construction loans at December 31, 2007. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could be reduced. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 0.80% of total loans, and 24.71% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2007. Our allowance compared to total loans is below our peers as a result of our historical loss experience. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 41 We may be unable to successfully integrate and grow the operations of Executive House. In December 31, 2005, we acquired Executive House as a subsidiary of First Savings Bank. Executive House has always operated previously as an unregulated mortgage originator primarily of commercial real estate and construction loans. As part of the acquisition, the owner of Executive House, John P. Mills, continued his employment with Executive House as President. In February 2006, First Savings Bank hired David G. Kroeger, formerly with the Washington Division of Financial Institutions, as Executive Vice President to work with Mr. Mills. On December 1, 2007, Mr. Mills retired as President of Executive House and Mr. Kroeger assumed his duties. Effective January 1, 2008, the lending operations of Executive House were assumed by First Savings Bank, creating a commercial lending division of First Savings Bank while retaining Executive House=s commercial/ construction lending emphasis. Following January 1, 2008, Mr. Kroeger became an Executive Vice President of First Savings Bank and oversees the commercial/construction lending division. The difficulties in hiring and training new personnel for this type of business include integrating personnel with different business backgrounds, and combining different corporate cultures, while retaining other key employees. The process of integrating personnel could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the operations of Executive House and the loss of customers and key personnel. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, Executive House originated construction/land development loans of $233.7 million and $111.5 million, respectively. These originations included $155.5 million and $76.3 million of one- to four-family construction loans to builders, and $13.3 million and $3.6 million of multi-family real estate construction loans, and $63.6 million, $31.6 million of land development loans, and $1.3 million and $0 of commercial nonresidential construction loans, for the respective periods. In addition, we may not realize expected revenue increases, cost savings and other projected benefits from the acquisition. Any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with integrating and growing the operations of Executive House could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations or otherwise adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., prime) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume, and overall profitability. Interest rates have recently been at historically low levels. However, since December 31, 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has changed its target for the federal funds rate 15 times, from 2.25% to 4.25%. While these short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) increased through September 30, 2007, they began to decrease in the fourth quarter of 2007. Longer-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer-term loans such as one- to four-family residential mortgages) have stayed relatively flat through September 2007 and in the fourth quarter of 2007 began to decrease. If short-term interest rates continue to fall, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings continue to reprice downward faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would experience an increase in our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a positive effect on our profitability. 42 We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. At December 31, 2007, we had $671.8 million in loans due after one year with fixed rates of interest, representing 67.13% of our total loan portfolio and 58.88% of our total assets. Our most recent Arate shock@ analysis indicates that our net portfolio value would be more adversely affected by an increase in interest rates than by a decrease. See Item 7, AManagement=s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations B Asset and Liability Management and Market Risk.@ Our single branch location limits our ability to attract retail deposits and as a result a large portion of our deposits are certificates of deposit, including AJumbo@ certificates which may not be as stable as other types of deposits. Our single branch location limits our ability to compete with larger institutions for non-interest bearing deposits as these institutions have a larger branch network providing greater convenience to customers. As a result, we are dependent on more interest rate sensitive deposits. At December 31, 2007, $542.4 million, or 74.35%, of our total deposits were certificates of deposit, and of that amount $346.2 million, or 63.83%, of the certificates of deposit were Ajumbo@ certificates of $100,000 or more. In addition, at that date our high yield money market accounts totaled $161.4 million or 22.13% of our total deposits. Deposit inflows are significantly influenced by general interest rates. Our money market accounts and jumbo certificates of deposit and the retention of these deposits are particularly sensitive to general interest rates, making these deposits traditionally a more volatile source of funding than other deposit accounts. In order to retain our money market accounts and jumbo certificates of deposit, we may have to pay a higher rate, resulting in an increase in our cost of funds. In a rising rate environment, we may be unwilling or unable to pay a competitive rate because of the resulting compression in our interest rate spread. To the extent that such deposits do not remain with us, they may need to be replaced with borrowings or other deposits which could increase our cost of funds and negatively impact our interest rate spread and our financial condition. Our business is subject to general economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, particularly an economic slowdown in Washington, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. Deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown within Washington, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business materially: $ loan delinquencies may increase; $ problem assets and foreclosures may increase; $ demand for our products and services may decline; and $ collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a client=s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans held for investment. A further downturn in the regional real estate market could hurt our business. Our business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in Washington. An extended downturn in the Washington real estate market could hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate located within the State of Washington, 43 especially King, Pierce and Snohomish counties, Washington. As of December 31, 2007, almost all of our real estate loan portfolio, including home equity loans, consisted of loans secured by real estate located in Washington. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in real estate values in our market area, however, the fourth quarter of 2007 trends indicated these values have stabilized. If there is a significant decline in real estate values in these geographic areas, the collateral for our loans will provide less security and we may experience increases in nonperforming loans. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate would be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans which would hurt our net income. Additionally, a decline in real estate values could likewise adversely impact our portfolio of real estate loans and could result in a decline in the origination of such loans. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by us, which could limit our growth and profitability. We face direct competition from a significant number of financial institutions, many with a state-wide or regional presence, and in some cases a national presence, in both originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition in originating loans comes primarily from other banks, mortgage companies and consumer finance institutions that make loans in our primary market areas. We also face substantial competition in attracting deposits from other banking institutions, money market and mutual funds, credit unions and other investment vehicles. In addition, banks with larger capitalization and non-bank financial institutions that are not governed by bank regulatory restrictions have large lending limits and are better able to serve the needs of larger customers. Many of these financial institutions are also significantly larger and have greater financial resources than us, have been in business for a longer period of time and have established customer bases and name recognition. We compete for loans principally on the basis of interest rates and loan fees, the types of loans we originate and the quality of service we provide to borrowers. Our ability to attract and retain deposits requires that we provide customers with competitive investment opportunities with respect to rate of return, liquidity, risk and other factors. To effectively compete, we may have to pay higher rates of interest to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market area, our profitability may be negatively affected, potentially limiting our ability to pay dividends. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may also limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. See Item 1., ABusiness B Competition.@ We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to it are subject to regular modification and change. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in this regulation and oversight, whether in 44 the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects or profitability. See Item 1., ABusiness B How We Are Regulated B Regulation and Supervision of First Savings Bank.@ Earthquakes in our primary market area may result in material losses because of damage to collateral properties and our borrowers= inability to repay loans. The Puget Sound region, where substantially all of the real and personal property securing our loans is located, is an earthquake-prone region. A major earthquake could result in material losses to us, although we have not experienced any losses in the past ten years as a result of earthquake damage to collateral securing loans. Earthquake insurance is generally not required by other lenders in the market area, and as a result in order to remain competitive in the marketplace, we do not require earthquake insurance as a condition of making a loan. Earthquake insurance is also not always available at a reasonable coverage level and cost because of changing insurance underwriting practices in our market area resulting from past earthquake activity and the likelihood of future earthquake activity in the region. Additionally, if the collateralized properties are only damaged and not destroyed to the point of total insurable loss, borrowers may suffer sustained job interruption or job loss, which may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. We cannot assure you that a major earthquake in our primary market area will not result in material losses to us. See Item 1., ABusiness B Natural Disasters.@ If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock, and our ability to attract additional deposits. In connection with the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we document and evaluate the Company=s internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy these requirements. This requires us to prepare an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including among other matters, management=s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock, and our ability to attract additional deposits. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. First Financial Northwest has not received any written comments from the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act that are unresolved. Item 