Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks and you could lose all or part of your investment. Certain regulatory restrictions were recently imposed on us: lack of compliance could result in monetary penalties and/or additional regulatory actions. The Bank entered into a Stipulation to the Issuance of a Consent Order (the "Order") by the FDIC and the DFI, which became effective on September 24, 2010. Under the terms of the Order, the Bank is required, among other things, to take certain measures in the areas of management, capital, classified assets, loan loss allowance 45 determination, lending, liquidity management, and board oversight. Specifically, the Order requires that the Bank maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10% and 12%, respectively, and reduce assets classified as substandard at the time of its most recent examination to below 65% by March 2011. The Bank must also revise its lending and collection and written funds management and liquidity policies, including a plan to reduce its reliance on non-core funding sources, revise its policy for determining the allowance for loan losses, develop a plan to reduce its commercial real estate concentrations and submit to regulators a strategic business plan and independent management study. The Order specifies certain timeframes for meeting these requirements and the Bank must furnish periodic progress reports to the FDIC and DFI regarding its compliance with the Order. In addition, the Bank will not be able to pay cash dividends to First Financial Northwest without prior approval from the FDIC and DFI. On April 14, 2010, in connection with our most recent examination by the OTS, the members of the Board of Directors of First Financial Northwest entered into an informal supervisory agreement (a memorandum of understanding ("MOU)). Under the terms of the MOU, the Company agreed, among other things, to provide notice to and obtain written non-objection from the OTS prior to the Company (a) declaring a dividend or redeeming any capital stock; and (b) incurring, issuing, renewing or repurchasing any new debt. In addition, both the Company and the Bank must obtain prior regulatory approval before adding any new director or senior executive officer or changing the responsibilities of any current senior executive officer or pay pursuant to or by entering into certain severance and other forms of compensation agreements. At December 31, 2010, First Savings Bank each exceeded all current regulatory capital requirements, including the requirements included in the Order (See Item 1, "Business Regulation," and Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding regulatory capital requirements for First Savings Bank for the year ended December 31, 2010.) and the Bank has implemented a comprehensive plan in an attempt to achieve full compliance with the Order. The Order also requires assets classified as substandard as a percentage of Tier 1 capital plus ALLL, at the time of the most recent examination, be below 65% by March 2011. As of December 31, 2010, the Bank met this requirement and continues to reduce these adversely classified assets. The Order and MOU will remain in effect until stayed, modified, terminated or suspended by the FDIC and the DFI and OTS, as the case may be. If either the Company or the Bank failed to comply with the Order or the MOU, respectively, it could be subject to various remedies, including among others, the regulator's exercise of powers to enjoin "unsafe or unsound" practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to direct an increase in capital, to restrict growth, to remove officers and/or directors and to assess civil monetary penalties. Management of the Bank has been taking action and implementing programs to comply with the requirements of the Order. Although compliance will be determined by the FDIC and the DFI, management believes that the Bank will comply in all material respects with the Order. Any of these regulators may determine at their sole discretion that the matters covered in the Order have not been addressed satisfactorily, or that any current or past actions, violations, or deficiencies could be the subject of further regulatory enforcement actions. Such enforcement actions could involve penalties or limitations on our business and negatively affect our ability to implement our business plan, pay dividends on our common stock or the value of our common stock as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may continue to be adversely affected by downturns. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the state of Washington. A continuing decline in the economies of the four counties in which we operate, which we consider to be our primary market area, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, Washington has experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures and has experienced above average unemployment rates. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market area we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: 46 • loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for our products and services may decline; • collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and • the amount of our low-cost or noninterest-bearing deposits may decrease. Our construction/land development loans are based upon estimates of costs and the value of the completed project. We make construction/land development loans to contractors and builders primarily to finance the construction of single-family homes and subdivisions. We originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. At December 31, 2010, construction/land development loans totaled $56.5 million, or 6.3% of our total loan portfolio. Land loans, which are loans made with land as security, totaled $27.3 million, or 3.1%, of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2010. Land loans include raw land and land acquisition and development loans. In addition, at December 31, 2010 we had $5.4 million of one-to-four family construction loans and $32.5 million of commercial and multifamily construction loans structured to be converted to permanent loans at the end of the construction phase. Construction/land development lending generally involves additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. In addition, because of current uncertainties in the residential real estate market, property values have become more difficult to determine than they have historically been. This type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. A further downturn in housing, or the real estate market, could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Many of our builders have more than one loan outstanding with us and also have residential mortgage loans for rental properties with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss. These loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. These loans are also generally more difficult to monitor. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. At December 31, 2010, $29.2 million of our construction/land development loans were for speculative construction loans and $32.9 million, or 58.2%, of our construction/land development loans were classified as nonperforming. Our level of commercial real estate loans may expose us to increased lending risks. While commercial real estate lending may potentially be more profitable than single-family residential lending, it is generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. In our primary market areas of King, Pierce, Snohomish and Kitsap counties, Washington, the housing market has slowed, with weaker demand for housing, higher inventory levels and longer marketing times. A further downturn in housing, or in the real estate market, could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss. 47 At December 31, 2010, we had $417.6 million of commercial and multifamily real estate loans, representing 46.8% of our total loan portfolio. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower's project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Commercial and multifamily mortgage loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multifamily real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate and construction loans is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. As a result of these characteristics, if we foreclose on a commercial or multifamily real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one-to-four family residential loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Accordingly, charge-offs on commercial and multifamily real estate loans may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. Our concentration in non-owner occupied real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk. At December 31, 2010, $173.4 million, or 43.5% of our one-to-four family residential mortgage loan portfolio and 19.4% of our total loan portfolio, consisted of loans secured by non-owner occupied residential properties. At December 31, 2010, nonperforming, non-owner occupied one-to-four family residential loans amounted to $14.7 million. Prior to foreclosure, loans that were classified as non-owner occupied residential properties and are now classified as held as other real estate owned ("OREO"), amounted to $11.9 million at December 31, 2010. Loans secured by non-owner occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner occupied properties because repayment of such loans depend primarily on the tenant's continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner's ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner occupied properties is often below that of owner occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards, which has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner occupied residential loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. At December 31, 2010, we had 59 non-owner occupied residential loan relationships, each having an outstanding balance over $500,000, with aggregate outstanding balances of $137.3 million. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner occupied residential mortgage loan. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At December 31, 2010, $398.7 million, or 44.7% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by first liens on one-to-four family residential loans. In addition, at December 31, 2010, our home equity lines of credit totaled $14.5 million. These types of loans are generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the Washington housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the sales prices coupled with the current recession and the associated increases in unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or lack of growth or a decrease in deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity and damage our financial condition and business operations. 48 High loan-to-value ratios on a portion of our residential mortgage loan portfolio exposes us to greater risk of loss. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because of the decline in home values in our market area. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the OTS have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under this guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors (i) total reported loans for construction, land development and other land represent 100% or more of total capital or (ii) total reported loans secured by multifamily and non-farm residential properties, loans for construction, land development and other land, and loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. The particular focus of the guidance is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be at greater risk to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution). The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations. The guidance states that management should employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate loan portfolio consistent with this guidance, bank regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures consistent with their interpretation of the guidance that may result in additional costs to us. Our provision for loan losses has increased substantially and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $53.1 million, compared to $51.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $63.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $35.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. We continue to experience loan delinquencies and credit losses. Slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market has been the primary cause of foreclosures for residential construction/land development loans, which represent 48.7% of our nonperforming assets at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010 our total nonperforming assets had decreased to $93.0 million compared to $132.5 million at December 31, 2009. Further, construction/land development and commercial real estate loans have a higher risk of loss than residential loans. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, until general economic conditions improve, we expect that we will continue to experience significantly higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we could be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 49 We may have continuing losses. We reported a net loss of $54.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to a net loss of $40.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. These losses primarily resulted from our high level of nonperforming assets and the resultant increased provision for loan losses. We may continue to suffer further losses. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • the cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; • changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; • the duration of the loan; • the credit history of a particular borrower; and • changes in economic and industry conditions. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: • our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience and certain macroeconomic factors based on management’s expectations of future events; • and our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of nonperforming loans and their underlying collateral. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was 2.56% of loans net of undisbursed funds and 35.80% of nonperforming loans net of undisbursed funds at December 31, 2010. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our capital. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as OREO, and at certain other times during the assets’ holding period. Our net 50 book value ("NBV") in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset's NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our OREO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by such regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate and/or sell loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets, which would negatively impact shareholders’ equity and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Continued deterioration in the financial position of the FHLB may result in future impairment losses of our investment in FHLB stock. At December 31, 2010, we owned $7.4 million of stock of the FHLB. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and it is subject to recoverability testing per Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The FHLB recently announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the "FHFA"), its primary regulator, as of December 31, 2008, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, the FHLB has not paid a dividend since the fourth quarter of 2008. The FHLB has communicated that it believes the calculation of risk-based capital under the current rules of the FHFA significantly overstates the market risk of the FHLB’s private-label mortgage-backed securities in the current market environment and that it has enough capital to cover the risks reflected in its balance sheet. As a result, we have not recorded an other-than-temporary impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. However, continued deterioration in the FHLB’s financial position may result in impairment in the value of those securities. In addition, on October 25, 2010, the FHLB received a consent order from the FHFA. The potential impact of the consent order is unknown at this time. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. Due to the FDIC insurance premiums increasing significantly in 2009 and 2010 we may pay higher FDIC premiums in the future. 51 The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum reserve ratio. The FDIC has adopted a plan under which it will meet this ratio by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio to 1.35% from the former minimum of 1.15%. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset. In addition to the statutory minimum ratio, the FDIC must set a designated reserve ratio or DRR, which may exceed the statutory minimum. The FDIC has set 2.0 as the DRR. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has adopted final regulations under which insurance premiums are based on an institution's total assets minus its tangible equity instead of its deposits. It is possible that our insurance premiums will increase under these final regulations. Continued weak or worsening credit availability could limit our ability to replace deposits and fund loan demand, which could adversely affect our earnings and capital levels. Continued weak or worsening credit availability and the inability to obtain adequate funding to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may negatively affect asset growth and, consequently, our earnings capability and capital levels. In addition to any deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, we rely from time to time on advances from the FHLB and other funding sources to fund loans. Negative operating results or economic conditions could adversely affect these additional funding sources, which could limit the funds available to us. Our liquidity position could be significantly constrained if we are unable to access funds from the FHLB, or other wholesale funding sources, or if adequate financing is not available at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. In addition, recent changes in the collateralization requirements and other provisions of the Washington public funds deposit programs have changed the economic benefit associated with accepting public funds deposits, which may affect our need to utilize alternative sources of liquidity. At December 31, 2010 we had $58.7 million in public funds. Our single branch location limits our ability to attract retail deposits and as a result a large portion of our deposits are certificates of deposit, including "Jumbo" certificates which may not be as stable as other types of deposits. Our single branch location limits our ability to compete with larger institutions for noninterest bearing deposits as these institutions have a larger branch network providing greater convenience to customers. As a result, we are dependent on more interest rate sensitive deposits. At December 31, 2010, $688.7 million, or 74.8%, of our total deposits were certificates of deposit and of that amount $510.9 million, or 55.5%, of the certificates of deposit were "jumbo" certificates of $100,000 or more ($58.7 million or 6.4% of our total deposits were public funds). In addition deposit inflows are significantly influenced by general interest rates. Our money market accounts and jumbo certificates of deposit and the retention of these deposits are particularly sensitive to general interest rates, making these deposits traditionally a more volatile source of funding than other deposit accounts. In order to retain our money market accounts and jumbo certificates of deposit, we may have to pay a higher rate, resulting in an increase in our cost of funds. In a rising rate environment, we may be unwilling or unable to pay a competitive rate because of the resulting compression in our interest rate spread. To the extent that such deposits do not remain with us, they may need to be replaced with borrowings or other deposits which could increase our cost of funds and negatively impact our interest rate spread and our financial condition. 52 The loss of our current Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer may hurt First Financial Northwest’s and First Savings Bank’s operations because it may be difficult to hire qualified replacements. The loss of our Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Victor Karpiak, could have a material adverse impact on the operations of First Savings Bank since he has been instrumental in managing the business affairs of First Savings Bank. Other officers within First Savings Bank do not have the experience and expertise to readily replace Mr. Karpiak. If First Savings Bank were to lose Mr. Karpiak, the board of directors would most likely have to search outside of First Savings Bank for a qualified, permanent replacement. This search may be prolonged and we cannot assure you that First Savings Bank would be able to locate and hire a qualified replacement without interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our operations. Recently enacted financial reform legislation will, among other things, eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The recent Dodd-Frank Act, enacted on July 21, 2010, will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act will eliminate First Financial Northwest's current primary federal regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, on July 21, 2011 and authorizes the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies like First Financial Northwest, in addition to bank holding companies, which it currently regulates. The regulations of the OTS will remain in effect after July 21, 2011, until modified by the Board of Governors. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, savings and loan holding companies will become subject to capital requirements established by the Board of Governors five years after enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for all holding companies that are as stringent as those required for the insured depository subsidiaries, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. The legislation also establishes a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. Certain other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on the Bank. For example, one year after the date of enactment the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, and noninterest-bearing transaction accounts and IOLTA have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. Additionally, effective July 6, 2010, regulatory changes in overdraft and interchange fee restrictions may reduce our noninterest income. The Dodd-Frank Act will require publicly traded companies to give shareholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called "golden parachute" payments and authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow shareholders to nominate their own candidates using a company's proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit "unfair, deceptive or abusive" acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has 53 examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions such as the Bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The new legislation also weakens the federal preemption available for national banks and federal savings associations and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. It is difficult to predict at this time what effect the new legislation and implementing regulations will have on community banks, including the lending and credit practices of such banks. Moreover, many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will not take effect for at least a year from enactment, and the legislation requires various federal agencies to promulgate numerous and extensive implementing regulations over the next several years. Although the substance and scope of these regulations cannot be determined at this time, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations, particularly those relating to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau may curtail our revenue opportunities and increase our operating and compliance costs, and could require us to hold higher levels of regulatory capital and/or liquidity or otherwise adversely affect our business or financial results in the future. For additional information, see Item 1, "Business Regulation Recently Enacted Regulatory Reform." New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a company's stockholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading "Item 1. Business-Regulation". These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, restrict mergers and acquisitions, investments, access to capital, the location of banking offices and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Further, recent regulatory changes to the rules for overdraft fees for debit transactions and interchange fees could reduce our fee income which would result in a reduction of our noninterest income. Our failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputational damage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. Our litigation related costs might increase. The Bank may become subject to legal proceedings that may arise in the ordinary course of the Bank's business. In the current economic environment litigation may increase significantly, as a result of defaulted borrowers asserting claims to defeat or delay foreclosure proceedings. Expenses of legal proceedings could adversely affect the Bank's results of operations until they are resolved. There can be no assurance that the Bank's loan workout and other activities will not expose the Bank to legal actions, including lender liability or environmental claims. State taxes may increase. Washington State currently has a deficit for the ensuing biennium which could reach up to $5 billion and as a result, state taxes may increase. The State Legislature is considering a variety of tax measures to balance the State budget which, if passed into law, may increase our State tax expense. 54 We will incur additional expenses managing real estate acquired through foreclosure. We have foreclosed and continue to foreclose on loans in our portfolio. These foreclosures may result in charge-offs and other expenses for items such as: property management and legal which will have a negative affect on future earnings. Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality, as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. First Financial Northwest has not received any written comments from the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended that are unresolved. 