Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of such risks actually occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. In those cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We may incur product liability claims, which could increase our costs and/or adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. As a retailer, formulator and manufacturer of products designed for human consumption, we are subject to product liability claims if the use of our products, whether manufactured by us or by our third-party manufacturer, is alleged to have resulted in illness or injury or if our products include inadequate instructions or warnings. Our products consist of vitamins, minerals, herbs and other ingredients that are classified as foods or dietary supplements and generally are not subject to pre-market regulatory approval or clearance in the U.S. by the FDA or other governmental authorities. Our products could contain spoiled or contaminated substances, and some of our products contain ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these ingredients could occur. In addition, some of our products are produced by third-party manufacturers. As a distributor of products manufactured by third parties, we may also be liable for various product liability claims for products that we do not manufacture. We could be subject to product liability claims, including among others, that our products include insufficient instructions for use or inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects or interactions with other substances. Any product liability claim against us could result in increased costs and, therefore, adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Unfavorable publicity or consumer acceptance of our products or of nutritional supplements generally could reduce our sales. We are highly dependent upon consumer acceptance of the safety, efficacy and quality of our products, as well as similar products distributed by other companies. Consumer acceptance of products can be significantly influenced by scientific research or findings, national media attention and other publicity about product use. A product may be received favorably, resulting in high sales associated with that product that may not be sustainable as consumer preferences change. In addition, recent studies have challenged the safety or benefit of certain nutritional supplements and dietary ingredients. Future scientific research or publicity could be unfavorable to our industry or any of our particular products and may not be consistent with earlier favorable research or publicity. A future research report or publicity that is perceived by our consumers as less than favorable or that questions earlier favorable research or publicity could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue. Adverse publicity in the form of published scientific research, statements by regulatory authorities or otherwise, whether or not accurate, that associates consumption of our products or any other similar products with illness or other adverse effects, or that questions the benefits of our or similar products, or that claims that such products are ineffective could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. If we lose or are unable to obtain key personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel. Although we have employment agreements with our executive officers, we cannot guarantee that such persons will remain affiliated with us. If any of our key personnel were to cease their affiliation with us, our operating results could suffer. Further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. If we lose or are unable to obtain the services of key personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we are unable to effectively manage our growth and expansion plans, we could be unable to implement our business strategy. Our growth and expansion plan, which includes expanding the manufacturing of our proprietary NSI-branded products, expanding product offerings and increasing our customer base, requires significant management time and operational and financial resources. There is no assurance that we have the operational and financial resources to manage our growth. This is especially true as we continue to manufacture more of our own products. In addition, rapid growth in our headcount and operations may place a significant strain on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Further, we are in the process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning system which we believe will help us manage our growth effectively. We may experience delays in implementing this system or this system may not function as expected. Failure to adequately manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. An unexpected interruption or shortage in the supply or significant increase in the cost of raw materials could limit our ability to manufacture our products, which could reduce our sales and our margins. An unexpected interruption of supply or a significant increase in the cost of raw materials, whether to us or to our contract manufacturers for any reason, such as regulatory requirements, import restrictions, loss of certifications, disruption of distribution channels as a result of weather, terrorism or acts of war, or other events, could result in significant cost increases and/or shortages of our products. Our inability to obtain a sufficient amount of products or to pass through higher cost of products we offer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on third-party carriers as part of our inventory fulfillment and order delivery processing, and these third parties may fail to meet shipping schedules or requirements which could limit our ability to manufacture our products, which could reduce our sales and our margins. We cannot control all of the factors that might affect our timely and cost-effective procurement of products from our vendors and delivery of our products to our customers. We rely on third-party carriers both for the delivery of raw materials and inventory and for the shipment of our products to our customers. Consequently, we are subject to risks of these carriers, including increased fuel costs, security concerns, labor disputes, union organizing activity and inclement weather. Any disruption in the ability of these carriers to timely deliver raw materials to us and products to our customers could damage our reputation and brand and result in customer dissatisfaction. This could, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The current global economic downturn or recession could adversely affect our industry and, therefore, restrict our future growth. The current global economic downturn or recession could negatively affect our sales because many consumers consider the purchase of our products discretionary. We cannot predict the timing or duration of the economic slowdown or recession or the timing or strength of a subsequent recovery, worldwide, or in the specific end markets we serve. If the markets for our products significantly deteriorate due to the economic situation, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Instability in financial markets could adversely affect our ability to access capital markets which could limit our ability to fund our operating costs if we do not generate sufficient cash from operations. As a result of the global downturn in economic conditions, the availability of capital has been severely restricted. From time to time, we may access debt or equity capital markets. Any restriction on our ability to access capital markets could limit our ability to pursue our growth strategy and could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS We depend upon certain third-party suppliers and manufactures; if these suppliers or manufacturers do not provide us materials or products when and as needed and we are unable to efficiently obtain alternative supply sources, we could be unable to manufacture our products, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We rely upon third-party suppliers for certain ingredients and raw materials. The principal ingredients or raw materials required in our operations are vitamins, minerals, herbs and packaging components. We purchase these materials from third-party suppliers located in the U.S., Japan, China, India, Italy, Spain, France and Germany. Furthermore, although we manufacture most of our proprietary products in-house, we engage third-party manufacturers to produce our proprietary products that are in the form of soft-gels, liquids and powders. With the exception of a supply agreement for coenzyme Q-10 (CoQ10), we do not have contracts in place with any third-party supplier or manufacturer that ensures minimum production or purchase. Disruption in the operations of any such third-party supplier or manufacturer can occur for a number of reasons, many of which are beyond our control, such as regulatory requirements, import restrictions, loss of certifications, power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, drought or other climate-related events, war or other events. If any of our third-party suppliers or manufacturers become unable or unwilling to continue to provide us supplies or products in the required volumes and quality levels or in a timely manner, we would be required to identify and obtain acceptable replacement supply or product sources. If we are unable to efficiently obtain alternative sources, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The content of our website and direct mailing pieces could expose us to significant liability which could reduce our profits. Because we post product information and other content on our website and in our direct mailing pieces, we face potential liability for, among other things, copyright infringement, patent infringement, trademark infringement, defamation, unauthorized practice of medicine, false or misleading advertising and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials we post. Although we maintain general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance, or is in excess of insurance coverage, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend primarily upon search engines and other online sources to increase traffic to our website, and need to convert this traffic into customers in a cost-effective manner; our failure to do so could reduce our sales. Our success depends on our ability to attract visitors to our website and convert them into customers in a cost-effective manner. We utilize search engines and other online sources as a means to direct traffic to our website. Our website is included in search results as a result of both paid search listings, where we purchase specific search terms that result in the inclusion of our website in the search result, and algorithmic searches that depend upon the searchable content in our website. Search engines and other online sources revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search results. If one or more of the search engines or other online sources which we use to direct traffic to our website were to modify its general methodology for how it displays our website, fewer visitors may visit our website, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, if any free search engine which we use to direct traffic to our website begins charging fees for listing or placement, or if one or more of the search engines or other online sources on which we rely for purchased listings, modifies or terminates its relationship with us, the traffic to our website could decrease and our expenses could increase which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to maintain our domain name, which may result in confusion to existing and new customers and lost sales and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Maintaining our Internet domain name is critical to our success. Under current domain name registration practices, no other entity may obtain an identical domain name but can obtain a similar or identical name with a different suffix, such as “.net” or “.org,” or with a different country designation, such as “.jp” for Japan. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have not registered our domain name with each of the suffixes or jurisdictions available. As a result, third parties may use domain names that are similar to our domain name, which may result in confusion to existing and new customers and lost sales. Failure to maintain our domain name’s uniqueness could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we experience product recalls, we may incur significant and unexpected costs and damage to our reputation and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be subject to product recalls, withdrawals or seizures if any of the products we formulate, manufacture or sell are believed to cause injury or illness or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations in the manufacture, labeling, promotion, sale or distribution of our products. A recall, withdrawal or seizure of any of our products could materially and adversely affect consumer confidence in our brands and lead to decreased demand for our products. In addition, a recall, withdrawal or seizure of any of our products would require significant management attention, would likely result in substantial and unexpected expenditures and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our inability to safely and efficiently conduct manufacturing operations or comply with health and safety regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In April 2008, we completed construction of our manufacturing facility located in Lexington, North Carolina. We currently manufacture approximately 73% of our proprietary products at this facility. In the future, we expect to manufacture substantially all of our proprietary products. Prior to commencing manufacturing at this facility, we relied upon third-party manufacturers to manufacture all of our products. Therefore, prior to April 2008, we had no experience in manufacturing. As a result, we could experience difficulties in organizing the manufacturing processes, including raw material procurement, material and product contamination, labor relations, manufacturing efficiencies and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure in any of these areas could result in product recalls or manufacturing shutdowns. Additionally, manufacturing a significant portion of our products at this single facility concentrates our risk in the event there is any significant disruption in our operations or shutdown of this facility. Further, our operations are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, and some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and limit pollution of the environment. Any disruptions in our manufacturing operations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and we could incur significant costs as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations, or to maintain compliance with such environmental laws, regulations, or permit requirements. Complying with new and existing government regulation, both in the U.S. and abroad, could significantly increase our costs and limit our ability to manufacture our products. The processing, formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of our products are subject to regulation by several U.S. federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the Postal Service, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Department of Agriculture and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state, local and international laws and agencies of the localities in which our products are sold. Government regulations may prevent or delay the introduction or require the reformulation of our products. The FDA regulates, among other things, the manufacture, composition, safety, labeling, marketing and distribution of dietary supplements (including vitamins, minerals, herbs, and other dietary ingredients for human use). The FDA may not accept the evidence of safety we present for new dietary supplements we wish to market, or they may determine that a particular dietary supplement or ingredient that we currently market presents an unacceptable health risk. If that occurs, we could be required to cease distribution of and/or recall supplements or products containing that ingredient. The FDA may also determine that certain advertising and promotional claims, statements or activities are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and may determine that a particular statement is an unacceptable drug claim or an unauthorized version of a food or dietary supplement “health claim.” Failure to comply with FDA or other regulatory requirements could prevent us from marketing particular dietary supplement products or subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS The FTC exercises jurisdiction over the advertising of dietary supplements and has instituted numerous enforcement actions against dietary supplement companies for failing to have adequate substantiation for claims made in advertising or for using false or misleading advertising claims. The FTC routinely polices the market for deceptive dietary supplement advertising and accepts and reviews complaints from the public concerning such advertising. The FTC also regulates deceptive advertising claims and promotional offers of savings compared to “regular” prices. The National Advertising Division, or NAD, of the Council of Better Business Bureaus oversees an industry-sponsored self-regulatory system that permits competitors to resolve disputes over advertising claims, including promotions for savings off of regular prices. The NAD has no enforcement authority of its own but may refer promotions to the FTC that the NAD views as violating FTC guides or rules. Violations of these orders could result in substantial monetary penalties. Additional or more stringent regulations of dietary supplements and other products have been considered from time to time. For example, the U.S. House of Representatives recently passed the Food Safety Enhancement Act of 2009 (H.R. 2749), which if enacted in its current form, would: • impose an annual registration of all facilities holding, processing, or manufacturing food, including dietary supplements; • increase FDA inspections of all dietary supplement companies, including us, by establishing a minimum inspection frequency; • require all dietary supplement companies, including us, to be subject to warrantless searches for up to three years; • maintain country of origin labeling for all dietary supplements; • empower the Secretary of Health and Human Services to order the immediate cessation of distribution, or a recall, of any food or dietary supplement product; and • provide FDA officials with the authority to detain food products for up to 60 days upon the belief that such products are misbranded or adulterated. The bill also creates risk of criminal liability for anyone who knowingly violates misbranding and adulteration provisions under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. If enacted into law, this bill would cause us to pay more for regulatory compliance and to be at greater risk of civil and criminal liability. We are not able to predict the enactment of this bill or the nature of any future laws, regulations, repeals or interpretations or to predict the effect additional governmental regulation would have on our business in the future. These developments could require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, product recalls, discontinuation of production of certain products not amenable to reformulation, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, adverse event reporting or other new requirements. Any such developments could increase our costs significantly, restrict our ability to sell our products, delay our ability to deliver products on time, result in customer migration to other suppliers, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the Dietary Supplement and Nonprescription Drug Consumer Protection Act, requiring mandatory adverse event reporting for all dietary supplements and over-the-counter drugs sold in the U.S., was recently signed into law. This law could materially increase our record keeping and documentation costs. In addition, the FDA has issued revised final rules on Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), creating new requirements for manufacturing, packaging or holding of dietary ingredients and dietary supplements. These regulations require dietary supplements to be prepared, packaged and held in compliance with stricter rules, and require quality control provisions similar to those in the drug GMP regulations. We or our third-party manufacturers may not be able to comply with the new rules without incurring additional expenses, which could be significant. On February 3, Senator John McCain introduced the bipartisan co-sponsored bill titled “The Dietary Supplement Safety Act of 2010” (“DSSA”) (S. 3002). If enacted into law the DSSA would: • require the mandatory registration of “dietary supplement facilities”; 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS • expand the definition of “adulterated” to include dietary supplements that are manufactured, distributed, labeled, or licensed by a dietary supplement facility that is not registered; • restrict sales of dietary supplements to those products that contain only FDA pre-approved dietary-ingredients; • render dietary supplements containing “new dietary ingredients” adulterated as a matter of law, whether or not such ingredient has been present in the food supply; • require dietary supplement manufacturers and retailers to obtain written evidence that their dietary supplements are registered and the new dietary ingredient provisions have been satisfied; • impose civil monetary penalties for non-compliance that are more than twice the gross profits derived from the non-compliant supplement; • require reporting of non-serious adverse events; and • give FDA authority to issue “cease distribution” orders upon “reasonable probability” that a dietary supplement or product would case adverse health consequences or is adulterated or misbranded. We or our third-party manufacturers may not be able to comply with the new rules without incurring additional expenses, which could be significant. In Europe, non-compliance by us or others of relevant legislation can result in regulators bringing administrative or, in some cases, criminal proceedings. For example, in the U.K., it is common for regulators, including the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency Enforcement & Intelligence Group, to prosecute retailers and manufacturers for non-compliance with legislation governing foodstuffs and medicines. European Union (EU) regulations and directives are implemented and enforced by individual member states and, so, enforcement priorities and applicable law can occur in multiple countries at one time. Failure by us, the manufacturers or suppliers to comply with applicable legislation could result in prosecution and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In Europe, broad regulations and directives on health and nutrition claims were recently adopted. These regulations cover claims that can be made for foods (including supplements). Certain claims, such as those regarding general well-being, behavioral functions and weight-loss, may be prohibited or require prior approval. Unless subject to derogation, products that include certain claims cannot be lawfully marketed in EU member states absent preapproval. Applicable derogations under EU directives can enlarge the period within which we may seek approval for products containing claims. An approval must proceed through the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), and the process includes the submission of a detailed dossier in support of the product claims. Lengthy delays within the new EU framework have been reported. This may severely impact our European marketing and expansion efforts. We also anticipate the enactment of legislation that could significantly impact the formulation of our products. The legislation is expected to include dosage restrictions for certain vitamin and mineral supplements. The legislation may lead to some of our products being recalled or discontinued. In addition, a European Union Directive governing product safety requires manufacturers to notify regulators about unsafe products and gives regulators in each member state the power to order product recalls. As a result, the number of product recalls in Europe has increased substantially. A product recall in Europe could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Complying with proposed healthcare reform legislation could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Healthcare reform legislation is currently being debated in Congress. One of the bills being debated would require employers to contribute either 72.5% of premiums for individual full-time employees or 65% of premiums for full-time employees on family plans to a qualifying health plan, or contribute to a national health trust fund on behalf of employees. This proposed requirement is phased in after a company’s payroll exceeds $250,000 at 2% of annual payroll and up to 8% for firms with payrolls in excess of $400,000 and so we would be subject to the proposed new requirement. We currently contribute 60% towards individual premiums for full-time and hourly employees. We believe this coverage would be a qualifying employer health 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS benefits package with all essential benefits as defined in the pending legislation, and as a result, we would be required to increase fixed costs for individuals from 60% to the mandated 72.5% for individual full-time employees, if the pending legislation is enacted in its current form. In addition, we currently contribute solely to full-time individual associate premiums and not to any portion of an associate’s optional addition of a family plan. If the healthcare legislation is enacted in its proposed form, we would be required to increase fixed costs by contributing 65% in total for an associate’s family health coverage plan. Thus, passage of healthcare reform legislation that imposes contribution requirements for individuals and families that are at the same or a higher level than those currently being debated in Congress would increase our fixed costs and lower our profits, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 imposes certain obligations on the senders of commercial emails, which could minimize the effectiveness of our email marketing campaign, and establishes financial penalties for non-compliance, which could increase the costs of our business and, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In December 2003, the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or the CAN-SPAM Act, was enacted. The CAN-SPAM Act establishes certain requirements for commercial email messages and penalizes commercial email message transmissions that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. The CAN-SPAM Act, among other things, requires that senders of commercial emails allow recipients to opt out of receiving future emails from the sender. The ability of our customers’ to opt out of receiving commercial emails may minimize the effectiveness of our email marketing campaign. Moreover, non-compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act carries significant financial penalties. If we were found to be in violation of the CAN-SPAM Act, applicable state laws not preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act, or foreign laws regulating the distribution of commercial email, we could be required to pay penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Taxation risks could subject us to liability for past sales, increase our costs and cause our future sales to decrease. We do not collect sales or other taxes on shipments of most of our goods into most states in the U.S. Proposed federal legislation would subject each facility used in the manufacture and distribution of dietary supplements to an annual tax and reporting requirement. The proceeds of the tax would be dedicated to increased inspections of companies that manufacture, distribute and hold dietary supplements. Taxes of this kind could adversely affect our ability to remain in business, could restrict the type or kind of products we sell or could require significant expenditures to ensure compliance. Currently, U.S. Supreme Court decisions restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, a number of states, as well as the U.S. Congress, have been considering initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives were successful, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes in additional states. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us, reduce our competitive advantage over traditional retailers and decrease our future sales. Our warehousing and expected manufacturing centers, and any future expansion of them, along with other aspects of our evolving business, may result in additional sales and other tax obligations. One or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction eCommerce companies. Effective June 2008, New York imposed such a sales tax obligation requirement on online retailers that use New York residents to directly or indirectly refer potential customers, via a link on an Internet website or otherwise, to the online retailer. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise or services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers and otherwise harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS Unfavorable changes to government regulations, service interruptions or adverse consumer attitudes about online commerce could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation by impeding the growth and use of the Internet and thereby decreasing revenue. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 87% of our orders were placed online. As the role and importance of online commerce has grown in the U.S., there have been continuing efforts to increase the legal and regulatory obligations and restrictions on companies conducting commerce through the Internet, primarily in the areas of taxation, consumer privacy, restrictions on imports and exports, customs, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services, which could increase the cost of conducting business over the Internet. In addition, consumer unwillingness or inability to use the Internet to conduct business, due to adverse regulation, security concerns, service interruptions or otherwise, could materially reduce our growth. Governmental laws and regulations, service interruptions or adverse attitudes about online commerce could increase the costs and liabilities associated with our online commerce activities, increase the price of our product to consumers, or reduce traffic to our website. Unfavorable resolution of these issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our network and communications systems are vulnerable to system interruption and damage, which could limit our ability to operate our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to receive and fulfill orders promptly and accurately is critical to our success and largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. We experience periodic system interruptions that impair the performance of our transaction systems or make our website inaccessible to our customers. These systems interruptions may prevent us from efficiently accepting and fulfilling orders, sending out promotional emails and other customer communications in a timely manner, introducing new products and features on our website, promptly responding to customers, or providing services to third parties. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential customers to believe that our systems are unreliable, which could cause them to avoid our website, drive them to our competitors, and harm our reputation. To minimize future system interruptions, we must continue to add software and hardware and to improve our systems and network infrastructure to accommodate increases in website traffic and sales volume and to replace aging hardware and software. We may be unable to promptly and effectively upgrade and expand our systems and integrate additional functionality into our existing systems. In addition, upgrades to our system may cause existing systems to fail or operate incorrectly. Any unscheduled interruption in our services could result in fewer orders, additional operating expenses, or reduced customer satisfaction, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, the timing and cost of upgrades to our systems and infrastructure may substantially affect our ability to maintain profitability. Our systems and operations and those of our suppliers and Internet service providers, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, earthquakes, power loss, server failure, telecommunications and Internet service failure, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses and denial-of-service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, human error and similar events. Any of these events could lead to system interruptions, order fulfillment delays, and loss of critical data for us, our suppliers, or our Internet service providers, and could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. Any significant interruption in the availability or functionality of our website or our customer processing, distribution, or communications systems, for any reason, could seriously harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. The occurrence of any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS Inability of our retail customers to access consumer credit markets could adversely affect sales of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Many of our customers use credit cards to pay for our products and services. Because of the current global economic downturn, credit card issuers have tightened their consumer lending standards which has resulted in decreased credit card limits and increased interest rates and fees. If our customers lose access to consumer credit or determine that the use of credit is prohibitively expensive, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to a number of risks related to credit card payments we accept which, if we fail to be in compliance with applicable credit card rules and regulations, will result in additional fees, fines and ultimately the revocation of the right to use the credit card company, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In 2009, approximately 97% of our orders were paid for using a credit card or debit card. For credit and debit card payments, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers. In addition, we have and may continue to suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit and debit card data. We do not carry insurance against the risk of credit card fraud, so the failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could reduce our net revenue and our gross profit percentage. We have implemented technology to help us detect the fraudulent use of credit card information. Under current practices, a merchant is liable for fraudulent credit card transactions when the merchant does not obtain a cardholder’s signature. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would result in significantly higher credit card-related costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may incur significant costs to protect our customers’ personal information, and may incur liability if such personal information is misappropriated, which could increase our costs, harm our reputation and reduce our sales. If our customers’ personal or credit card information is misappropriated by us or third parties that breach our network security, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims or damages for alleged violations of state or federal laws governing security protocols for the safekeeping of customers’ personal or credit card information. This liability could also include claims for other misuses of personal information, including unauthorized marketing purposes. These claims could result in litigation against us. Liability for misappropriation of this information could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. In addition, the FTC and state agencies have been investigating various Internet companies regarding their use of customers’ personal information. We could incur additional expenses if new regulations regarding the use of personal information are introduced or if government agencies investigate our privacy practices. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information such as customer credit card numbers. We cannot provide assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect our customers’ transaction data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could harm our reputation, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to resolve problems caused by such breaches. We cannot assure you that our security measures will prevent security breaches or that failure to prevent such security breaches will not harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS Laws or regulations relating to privacy and data protection may adversely affect the growth of our Internet business or our marketing efforts, which could reduce our sales and cause us to incur significant costs. We are subject to increasing regulation at the federal, state and international levels relating to privacy and the use of personal user information. For example, we are subject to various telemarketing laws that regulate the manner in which we may solicit future suppliers and customers. Such regulations, along with increased governmental or private enforcement, may increase the cost of growing our business. In addition, many jurisdictions have laws that limit the use of personal information gathered online or offline or require companies to establish privacy policies. The FTC has adopted regulations regarding the collection and use of personal identifying information obtained from children under thirteen years of age. Proposed legislation in this country and existing laws in foreign countries require companies to establish procedures to notify users of privacy and security policies, obtain consent from users for the collection and use of personal information, and/or provide users with the ability to access, correct and delete personal information stored by us. From time to time, Congress has proposed legislation regarding data security and privacy protection. Any enacted data protection regulations may restrict our ability to collect demographic and personal information, which could be costly or harm our marketing efforts, and could require us to implement new and potentially costly processes, procedures and/or protective measures. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could reduce our sales and increase our costs. We have invested significant resources to promote our brand name. We currently have 11 issued patents, 3 patents pending, 68 issued U.S. trademark registrations and 16 pending U.S. trademark applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for proprietary products and processes. We have also received various European Community, Japan, Hong Kong Australia and South Korea registrations for the trademarks CSI, Vitacost, WALKER DIET, Nutraceutical Sciences Institute and NSI. We may not always be able to successfully enforce a trademark against competitors or against challenges by others. Our failure to successfully protect a trademark could diminish the value and effectiveness of our past and future marketing efforts and could cause customer confusion. This could in turn adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, because of the differences in foreign trademark laws concerning proprietary rights, a trademark may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as it does in the U.S. Furthermore, although we own 11 issued patents, these patents may not adequately protect our products because the patents typically relate to formulations. Accordingly, they could be circumvented through minor alterations in formulation. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our inability to defend against intellectual property claims could increase our costs and limit our ability to manufacture our products. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses, be involved in protracted litigation or prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using some aspect of our products. Claims of intellectual property infringement may also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. Alternatively, we may be unable to obtain necessary royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Claims that our technology or products infringe on intellectual property rights of others could be costly and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Third parties could use our trademarks as keywords in Internet search engine advertising programs, which may direct potential customers to competitors’ websites, which, in turn, could result in decreased sales and could harm our reputation. Competitors and other third parties could purchase our trademarks and confusingly similar terms as keywords in Internet search engine advertising programs and in the resulting sponsored link advertisements which may divert potential customers to their websites. Preventing such unauthorized use is difficult. Further, the legal precedent on whether such activity infringes on our intellectual property varies significantly within the United States and in other countries. If we are unable to protect our trademarks or confusingly similar terms from such unauthorized use, competitors and other third parties could drive potential online customers away from our website, which could result in a loss of sales and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our market share, financial condition and growth prospects. The U.S. vitamins and dietary supplements industry is a large and highly fragmented industry. Our competitors include specialty retailers, supermarkets, drugstores, mass merchants, multi-level marketing organizations, online merchants, mail-order companies and a variety of other participants in the industry. The principle elements of competition in the industry are price, selection and distribution channel offerings. We believe that the market is also highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, including various prescription drugs, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. In the U.S., we also compete for sales with heavily advertised national brands manufactured by large pharmaceutical and food companies, as well as other retailers. In addition, as some products gain market acceptance, we experience increased competition for those products as more participants enter the market. Our manufacturing operations compete with manufacturers of third-party nutritional supplements. Certain of our competitors are larger than us and have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and greater resources for marketing, advertising and product promotion. They may be able to secure inventory from vendors on more favorable terms, operate with a lower cost structure or adopt more aggressive pricing policies. In addition, our competitors may be more effective and efficient in introducing new products. We may not be able to compete effectively, and our attempt to do so may require us to increase marketing and/or reduce our prices, which may result in lower margins. Failure to effectively compete could adversely affect our market share, financial condition and growth prospects. Our failure to efficiently respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products and services could significantly harm our product sales, inventory management and customer relationships and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends and preferences. We may not be able to respond in a timely or commercially appropriate manner to these changes. Our failure to accurately predict these trends could negatively impact our inventory levels, sales and consumer opinion of us as a source for the latest products. The success of our new product offerings depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: • accurately anticipate customer needs; • innovate and develop new products; • successfully commercialize new products in a timely manner; • competitively price our products; • procure and maintain products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and • differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. If we do not introduce new products, make enhancements to existing products or maintain the appropriate inventory levels to meet customers’ demand in a timely manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Spending to expand our distribution and manufacturing capabilities to remain competitive may harm our financial results. In order to remain competitive, we have increased our capital expenditures and expenses above our historical model in order to attempt to improve our existing distribution facility in Nevada. Additionally, we intend to begin increased capital expenditures in our North Carolina facility in 2010 to improve our efficiencies in both manufacturing and distribution. Increased investments in our facilities and their technology could have a negative impact on our financial results. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our sales in international markets expose us to certain risks relating to commencing and maintaining operations in new and foreign jurisdictions, which could increase our costs, subject us to political risk and negatively affect our business. In 2009, approximately 2% of our net sales were generated internationally. As part of our business strategy, we intend to expand our international presence. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent to operations in foreign countries, and any expansion of our international operations will increase the magnitude of these risks. These risks include, among other things: • political and economic instability of foreign markets; • foreign governments’ restrictive trade policies; • exchange controls; • the imposition of, or increase in, duties, taxes, government royalties or non-tariff barriers; • fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates; • increased costs in maintaining international marketing efforts and customer relations; • difficulties in enforcement of intellectual property rights; and • problems entering international markets with different cultural bases and consumer preferences. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our international operations and our growth strategy. Insurance coverage, even where available, may not be sufficient to cover losses we may incur, which could increase our costs and lower our profits. Our business exposes us to the risk of liabilities arising out of our products and operations. For example, we may be liable for claims brought by users of our products or by employees, customers or other third parties for personal injury or property damage occurring in the course of our operations. Our operations are subject to closure and loss due to power outages, Internet and telephone line failures, work stoppages and acts of nature. We seek to minimize these risks through various insurance policies from third-party insurance carriers. However, our insurance coverage is subject to large individual claim deductibles, individual claim and aggregate policy limits and other terms and conditions. Our estimate of retained-insurance liabilities is subject to change as new events or circumstances develop that might materially impact the ultimate cost to settle these losses. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient to cover our losses. We do not view insurance, by itself, as a material mitigant to these business risks. Any losses that are not completely covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The insurance industry has become more selective in offering certain types of liability insurance coverage, and we may not be able to maintain our existing coverage or obtain increased coverage in the future, which could increase our costs and reduce our profits. The insurance industry has become more selective in offering certain types of insurance, including product liability, product recall and property casualty insurance. While we believe our current insurance policies provide us adequate coverage for our current business operations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such coverage or obtain comparable coverage on terms and conditions favorable to us, if at all. Further, as we expand our business, we expect to correspondingly increase our insurance coverage, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such increased coverage if and when needed. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our manufacturing operations are located in a single location and our inventory is concentrated in two warehouse locations, which exposes us to the risk of natural disasters or other force majeure events. Losses at either location could adversely affect our manufacturing operations, product distributions, sales and consumer satisfaction. We house our manufacturing operations and one of our two distribution warehouses at a facility located in Lexington, North Carolina. We also operate a distribution and warehouse facility located in Las Vegas, Nevada. Any significant disruption in either of these locations for any reason, such as a fire, flood, hurricanes, earthquakes or similar events, could adversely affect our manufacturing operations, product distributions, sales and consumer satisfaction. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors or securities analysts, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section in this annual report: • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers; • changes in the volume and mix of dietary supplements and health and wellness products sold in a particular quarter; • the timing and success of new dietary supplement introductions or reformulations by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • competition, including entry into the market by new competitors including traditional brick and mortar retailers and new product offerings by existing competitors; • the amount and timing of expenditures related to expanding our operations, research and development or introducing new products; • changes in the payment terms for our products and services; and • the purchasing cycles of our customers. Most of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term, and our expense levels are based in part on our expectations regarding future revenue levels. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our expectations, we may not be able to proportionally reduce operating expenses for that quarter, causing a disproportionate effect on our expected results of operations for that quarter. If we are unable to sufficiently increase our revenue to offset increased costs as we expand our business, we may experience operating losses, net losses or negative cash flows. We incurred operating losses and net losses in each year of operation until 2006. We expect operating expenses and working capital requirements to increase substantially as we expand our business. We expect our costs of product development, sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing and general and administrative expenses to increase substantially as a result of our planned expansion. If we are unable to continue to sufficiently increase our revenue to offset these increased costs, we will not maintain profitability and may experience operating losses, net losses or negative cash flows. If we do not manage the cash proceeds from our initial public offering properly, we could be required to register as an investment company and become subject to substantial regulation that would interfere with our ability to conduct our business. We received net cash proceeds of approximately $47.1 million from our initial public offering, representing in excess of 40% of our assets. The Investment Company Act of 1940 requires the registration of companies which are engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, or 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS which are engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and which own or propose to acquire investment securities with a value of more than 40% of its assets on an unconsolidated basis (other than U.S. government securities and cash). We are not engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, and we invest our cash and cash equivalents in U.S. government securities and money market funds to the extent necessary to take advantage of the 40% safe harbor. To manage our cash holdings, we invest in short-term instruments consistent with prudent cash management and the preservation of capital and not primarily for the purpose of maximizing investment returns. U.S. government securities and money market funds generally yield lower rates of income than other short-term instruments in which we have invested to date. Accordingly, investing substantially all of our cash and cash equivalents in U.S. government securities and money market funds could result in lower levels of interest income and net income. If we were deemed an investment company and were unable to rely upon a safe harbor or exemption under the Investment Company Act, we would, among other things, be prohibited from engaging in certain businesses or issuing certain securities and we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness If we fail to comply with the various covenants contained in our bank financing documents, we may be in default thereunder, which could limit our ability to fund our operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had borrowed approximately $9.4 million under certain term, revolving and other credit facilities. If we default on any of the financial or operating covenants in any of our agreements evidencing such credit facilities and are unable to obtain an amendment or waiver, the lenders could cause all amounts outstanding under these agreements to be due and payable immediately and, if secured, proceed to foreclose on the collateral securing the indebtedness. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to repay fully the borrowings under our different forms of indebtedness, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. A default or potential acceleration could impact our ability to attract and retain customers and could negatively impact trade credit availability and terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our flexibility in operating our business and our ability to repay our indebtedness may be limited as a result of certain covenant restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant restrictions on us. Compliance with these restrictive covenants will limit our flexibility in operating our business. Failure to comply with these covenants could give rise to an event of default under these agreements. These covenants restrict, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness and guarantee obligations; • create liens; • engage in mergers, consolidations, liquidations or the creation of subsidiaries; • change the nature of our business; • make equity investments or loans; • sell, lease or otherwise dispose of certain assets; engage in transactions with affiliates; • pay dividends, make distributions or redeem any equity securities; • modify our organizational documents or certain debt documents; • change our accounting treatment and reporting practices; • engage in speculative transactions; 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS • prepay certain indebtedness; and • allow debt to be designated as senior debt. Further, our senior lender has a priority lien on substantially all of our assets and a mortgage on our Lexington, North Carolina property. If we default on our indebtedness, our lender may exercise any and all remedies available to secured parties, including, but not limited to, taking possession of those assets which secure the lender’s lien. We have entered into hedging strategies to mitigate our interest rate exposure; these strategies may not be effective and may adversely affect our earnings and may expose us to counterparty risks. Our risk management policy is to use derivative financial instruments, as appropriate, to manage the interest expense related to the variable interest rate on our debt. We have entered into three interest rate swap agreements and may pursue additional types of hedging strategies in the future. We expect hedging to assist us in mitigating and reducing our exposure to higher interest expenses, and, to a lesser extent, losses in book value from adverse changes in interest rates. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held and financing sources used and other changing market conditions. There is no assurance, however, that a hedging strategy will insulate us from the interest rate risks to which we are exposed, and there is no assurance that the implementation of any hedging strategy will have the desired impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, these hedging strategies may adversely affect us, because hedging activities involve an expense that we will incur regardless of the effectiveness of the hedging activity. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which we seek protection; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. We have entered into three interest rate swap agreements in an effort to hedge against future increases in interest rates on certain of our debt obligations. Should an interest rate swap agreement counterparty be unable to make required payments pursuant to the agreement, the hedged liability would cease to be hedged for the remaining term of the interest rate swap agreement. In addition, we may be at risk for any collateral held by a hedging counterparty to an interest rate swap agreement, should the counterparty become insolvent or file for bankruptcy. Our hedging transactions, which are intended to limit losses, may actually adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Prior to September 24, 2009, there was no public market for our common stock, and it is possible that no trading market will be maintained. Prior to our initial public offering and listing on The NASDAQ Global Market on September 24, 2009, there had not been a public market for our common stock. Therefore, stockholders should be aware that they cannot benefit from information about prior market history as to their decision to invest. There can be no assurance that a trading market will develop for our common stock or, if such a market does develop, how liquid that market might become or whether it will be maintained. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS Volatility of our stock price could adversely affect an investment in our common stock. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly as a result of, among other things: • quarterly and annual variations in our operating results; • the level and quality of research analyst coverage for our common stock, changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business or failure to meet such estimates; • the financial disclosure we may provide to the public, any changes in such disclosure or our failure to meet such disclosure; • the public’s response to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission; • various market factors or perceived market factors, including rumors, whether or not correct, involving us, our customers, our suppliers or our competitors; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • sales of common stock by our directors, officers or significant stockholders; • introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • developments with respect to intellectual property rights; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors; • changes in shipping costs; • short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions in shares of our common stock; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; • broad market conditions and trends in the eCommerce industry and the economy as a whole; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock could contribute to the loss of all or part of a stockholder’s investment. Any of the factors listed above could have a material adverse effect on an investment in our common stock. In addition, stocks of Internet-related and eCommerce companies have historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to these companies’ operating performance. Public announcements by us or other such companies concerning, among other things, performance, accounting practices or legal problems could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. We could be the subject of securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility, which could divert management’s attention and adversely affect our results of operations. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such future sales may occur, may cause our stock price to decline and impair our ability to obtain capital through future stock offerings. In connection with our initial public offering, we, along with our officers, directors and certain stockholders, agreed prior to the commencement of the offering, subject to limited exceptions, not to sell or transfer any shares of common stock for 180 days after September 23, 2009 without the consent of Jefferies & Company, Inc. and Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. However, Jefferies & Company, Inc. and Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. may release these shares from these restrictions at any time. In evaluating whether to grant such a request, Jefferies & Company, Inc. and Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. may consider a number of factors with a view toward maintaining an orderly market for, and minimizing volatility in the market price of, our common stock. These factors include, among others, the number of shares involved, recent trading volume, stock price, the length of 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS time before the lock-up expires and the reasons for, and the timing of, the request. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of shares held by any stockholder or the availability of these shares for future sale will have on the market price of our common stock. A total of approximately 15.6 million shares of common stock may be sold in the public market by existing stockholders on or about 181 days after September 23, 2009, subject to applicable volume and other limitations imposed under federal securities law. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our common stock. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding options to purchase 2,745,880 shares of common stock. We registered for offer and sale the shares of common stock that are reserved for issuance pursuant to options. Shares covered by such registration statements upon the exercise of stock options or warrants generally will be eligible for sale in the public market, except that affiliates will continue to be subject to volume limitations and other requirements of Rule 144. The issuance or sale of such shares could depress the market price of our common stock. Given our limited resources, being a public company will substantially increase our administrative costs which could materially impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Sarbanes-Oxley, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Stock Market, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time consuming and/or costly. In addition, as a public company, we will incur the internal and external costs of preparing and distributing periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the securities laws. We also expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. These new rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. Beginning with the year ending December 31, 2010, Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley will require us to include an internal control report with our annual report on Form 10-K. That report must include management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year. Additionally, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2010, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to issue a report on its evaluation of the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Any weakness or deficiency in internal controls could impair our ability to comply with Section 404. If we are unable to successfully maintain internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately and timely report on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, which could adversely affect our business and investor confidence in us. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will likely limit an investor’s ability to influence corporate matters. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities controlled by us or these individuals together beneficially own or control approximately 45% (including shares owned by our largest stockholder, Mr. Wayne Gorsek) of our common stock outstanding. Furthermore, pursuant to the terms of our amended and restated bylaws, certain actions may be taken with the approval of any stockholder or group of stockholders owning shares in excess of 10%, including the ability to call a special meeting for the purpose of electing directors. As a result, certain stockholders will have substantial influence and control over management and matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Corporate actions favored by these stockholders might be taken even if other stockholders oppose those actions. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other stockholders may consider beneficial. 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS We will retain broad discretion in using the net proceeds from our initial public offering and may spend a substantial portion in ways with which investors may not agree. Our management retain broad discretion to allocate the net proceeds of our initial public offering. The net proceeds may be applied in ways with which our stockholders may not agree, or which do not increase investment value. We used a portion of our net proceeds from the offering to repay outstanding indebtedness owed on our credit facilities and to fund capital expenditures. We anticipate that we will use the remainder of the net proceeds for working capital and other general corporate purposes. We have not allocated these remaining net proceeds for any specific purposes. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions include: • our ability to issue preferred stock with terms that the board of directors may determine, without stockholder approval; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; and • limitations on convening stockholder meetings. As a result of these and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the price investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock may be limited. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Further, certain of our employment agreements and incentive plans provide for vesting of stock options and/or payments to be made to the employees thereunder if their employment is terminated in connection with a change of control, which could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock, nor do we intend to do so, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividend in the foreseeable future. As a result, investors may only receive a return on investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 