Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves significant risks, a number of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following discussion highlights some of these risks and the possible impact of these factors on our business, financial condition and future results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted. In addition, these risks and uncertainties may impact the forward-looking statements described elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to Our Business We may incur product liability claims, which could increase our costs and/or materially adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. As a retailer, formulator and manufacturer of products designed for human consumption or use on or in the body, we are subject to product liability claims if the use of our products, whether manufactured by us or by our third-party manufacturer, is alleged to have resulted in illness or injury or if our products include inadequate instructions or warnings. Our products generally consist of vitamins, minerals, herbs and other ingredients that are classified as foods, OTC drugs, dietary supplements, medical devices, and cosmetics and generally are not subject to pre-market regulatory approval or clearance in the U.S. by the FDA or other governmental authorities. Our products could contain spoiled or contaminated substances, and some of our products contain ingredients that do not have long histories of human consumption. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these ingredients could occur. In addition, some of our products are produced by third-party manufacturers. As a distributor of products manufactured by third parties, we may also be liable for various product liability claims for products that we do not manufacture. We could be subject to product liability claims, including among others, that our products include insufficient instructions for use or inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects or interactions with other substances. Any product liability claim against us could result in increased costs and, therefore, adversely affect our reputation with our customers, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our network and communications systems are vulnerable to system interruption and damage, which could limit our ability to operate our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to receive and fulfill orders promptly and accurately is critical to our success and largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. We experience periodic system interruptions that impair the performance of our transaction systems or make our website inaccessible to our customers. These systems interruptions may prevent us from efficiently accepting and fulfilling orders, sending out promotional emails and other customer communications in a timely manner, introducing new products and features on our website, promptly responding to customers, or providing services to third parties. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential customers to believe that our systems are unreliable, which could cause them to avoid our website, drive them to our competitors, and harm our reputation. To minimize future system interruptions, we must continue to add software and hardware and to improve our systems and network infrastructure to accommodate increases in website traffic and sales volume and to replace aging hardware and software. We may be unable to promptly and effectively upgrade and expand our systems and integrate additional functionality into our existing systems. In addition, upgrades to our system may cause existing systems to fail or operate incorrectly. Any unscheduled interruption in our services could result in fewer orders, additional operating expenses, or reduced customer satisfaction, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, the timing and cost of upgrades to our systems and infrastructure may substantially affect our ability to maintain profitability. Our systems and operations and those of our suppliers and Internet service providers, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, earthquakes, power loss, server failure, telecommunications and Internet service failure, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses and denial-of-service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, human error and similar events. Any of these events could lead to system interruptions, order fulfillment delays, and loss of critical data for us, our suppliers, or our Internet service providers, and could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. Any significant interruption in the availability or functionality of our website or our customer processing, distribution, or communications systems, for any reason, could seriously harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. The occurrence of any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 11 Unfavorable publicity or consumer acceptance of our products or of nutritional supplements generally could reduce our sales. We are highly dependent upon consumer acceptance of the safety, efficacy and quality of our products, as well as similar products distributed by other companies. Consumer acceptance of products can be significantly influenced by scientific research or findings, national media attention and other publicity about product use. A product may be received favorably, resulting in high sales associated with that product that may not be sustainable as consumer preferences change. In addition, recent studies have challenged the safety or benefit of certain nutritional supplements and dietary ingredients. Future scientific research or publicity could be unfavorable to our industry or any of our particular products and may not be consistent with earlier favorable research or publicity. A future research report or publicity that is perceived by our consumers as less than favorable or that questions earlier favorable research or publicity could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue. Adverse publicity in the form of published scientific research, statements by regulatory authorities or otherwise, whether or not accurate, that associates consumption of our products or any other similar products with illness or other adverse effects, or that questions the benefits of our or similar products, or that claims that such products are ineffective could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition or results of operations. If we lose or are unable to obtain key personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel. Although we have employment agreements with our executive officers, we cannot guarantee that such persons will remain affiliated with us. If any of our key personnel were to cease their affiliation with us, our operating results could suffer. Further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. If we lose or are unable to obtain the services of key personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth plan, we could be unable to implement our business strategy. Our growth plan requires significant management time and operational and financial resources. There is no assurance that we have the operational and financial resources to manage our growth. In addition, rapid growth in our headcount and operations may place a significant strain on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Failure to adequately manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. An unexpected interruption or shortage in the supply or significant increase in the cost of raw materials could limit our ability to manufacture our products, which could reduce our sales and our margins. An unexpected interruption of supply or a significant increase in the cost of raw materials, whether to us or to our contract manufacturers for any reason, such as regulatory requirements, import restrictions, loss of certifications, disruption of distribution channels as a result of weather, terrorism or acts of war, or other events, could result in significant cost increases and/or shortages of our products. Our inability to obtain a sufficient amount of products or to pass through higher cost of products we offer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on third-party carriers as part of our inventory fulfillment and order delivery processing, and these third parties may fail to meet shipping schedules or requirements which could limit our ability to manufacture our products, which could reduce our sales and our margins. We cannot control all of the factors that might affect our timely and cost-effective procurement of products from our vendors and delivery of our products to our customers. We rely on third-party carriers both for the delivery of raw materials and inventory and for the shipment of our products to our customers. Consequently, we are subject to risks of these carriers, including increased fuel costs, security concerns, labor disputes, union organizing activity and inclement weather. Any disruption in the ability of these carriers to timely deliver raw materials to us and products to our customers could damage our reputation and brand and result in customer dissatisfaction. This could, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The current global economic climate could adversely affect our industry and, therefore, restrict our future growth. The current global economic climate could negatively affect our sales because many consumers consider the purchase of our products discretionary. If the markets for our products significantly deteriorate due to the economic climate, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Instability in financial markets could adversely affect our ability to access capital markets which could limit our ability to fund our operating costs if we do not generate sufficient cash from operations. As a result of current economic conditions, the availability of capital has been severely restricted. From time to time, we may access debt or equity capital markets. Any restriction on our ability to access capital markets could limit our ability to pursue our growth strategy and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend upon certain third-party suppliers and manufacturers; if these suppliers or manufacturers do not provide us materials or products when and as needed and we are unable to efficiently obtain alternative supply sources, we could be unable to manufacture our products, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 12 We rely upon third-party suppliers for certain ingredients and raw materials. The principal ingredients or raw materials required in our operations are vitamins, minerals, herbs and packaging components. We purchase these materials from third-party suppliers located in the U.S., Japan, China, India, Italy, Spain, France and Germany. Furthermore, although we manufacture many of our proprietary products in-house, we engage third-party manufacturers to produce our proprietary products that are in the form of soft-gels, liquids and powders. Disruption in the operations of any such third-party supplier or manufacturer can occur for a number of reasons, many of which are beyond our control, such as regulatory requirements, import restrictions, loss of certifications, power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, drought or other climate-related events, war or other events. If any of our third-party suppliers or manufacturers become unable or unwilling to continue to provide us supplies or products in the required volumes and quality levels or in a timely manner, we would be required to identify and obtain acceptable replacement supply or product sources. If we are unable to efficiently obtain alternative sources, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The content of our website and direct mailing pieces could expose us to significant liability which could reduce our profits. Because we post product information and other content on our website and in our direct mailing pieces, we face potential liability for, among other things, copyright infringement, patent infringement, trademark infringement, defamation, unauthorized practice of medicine, false or misleading advertising and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials we post. Although we maintain general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance, or is in excess of insurance coverage, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend primarily upon search engines and other online sources to increase traffic to our website, and need to convert this traffic into customers in a cost-effective manner; our failure to do so could reduce our sales. Our success depends on our ability to attract visitors to our website and convert them into customers in a cost-effective manner. We utilize search engines and other online sources as a means to direct traffic to our website. Our website is included in search results as a result of both paid search listings, where we purchase specific search terms that result in the inclusion of our website in the search result, and algorithmic searches that depend upon the searchable content in our website. Search engines and other online sources revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search results. If one or more of the search engines or other online sources which we use to direct traffic to our website were to modify its general methodology for how it displays our website, fewer visitors may visit our website, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, if any free search engine which we use to direct traffic to our website begins charging fees for listing or placement, or if one or more of the search engines or other online sources on which we rely for purchased listings, modifies or terminates its relationship with us, the traffic to our website could decrease and our expenses could increase which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We could be harmed by data loss or other security breaches. Our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. Any attempts by hackers to disrupt our service or our internal systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. In addition, we rely on third party technology and systems in certain aspects of our businesses, including encryption and authentication technology to securely transmit confidential information. Any significant disruption to our service or internal computer systems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain our domain name, which may result in confusion to existing and new customers and lost sales and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Maintaining our Internet domain name is critical to our success. Under current domain name registration practices, no other entity may obtain an identical domain name but can obtain a similar or identical name with a different suffix, such as “.net” or “.org,” or with a different country designation, such as “.jp” for Japan. We have not registered our domain name with each of the suffixes or jurisdictions available. As a result, third parties may use domain names that are similar to our domain name, which may result in confusion to existing and new customers and lost sales. Failure to maintain our domain name’s uniqueness could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we experience product recalls, we may incur significant and unexpected costs and damage to our reputation and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be subject to product recalls, withdrawals or seizures if any of the products we formulate, manufacture or sell are believed to cause injury or illness or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations in the manufacture, labeling, promotion, sale or distribution of our products. A recall, withdrawal or seizure of any of our products could materially and adversely affect consumer confidence in our brands and lead to decreased demand for our products. In addition, a recall, withdrawal or seizure of any of our products would require significant management attention, would likely result in substantial and unexpected expenditures and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our inability to safely and efficiently conduct manufacturing operations or comply with health and safety regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Manufacturing a significant portion of our products at our manufacturing facility in Lexington, North Carolina concentrates our risk in the event there is any significant disruption in our operations or shutdown of this facility. Further, our operations are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, and some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and limit pollution of the environment. Any disruptions in our manufacturing operations would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and we could incur significant costs as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations, or to maintain compliance with such environmental laws, regulations, or permit requirements. 13 Complying with new and existing government regulation, both in the U.S. and abroad, could significantly increase our costs and limit our ability to manufacture our products. The processing, formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale of our products are subject to regulation by several U.S. federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the Postal Service, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Department of Agriculture and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state, local and international laws and agencies of the localities in which our products are sold. Government regulations may prevent or delay the introduction or require the reformulation of our products. The FDA regulates, among other things, the manufacture, composition, safety, labeling, marketing and distribution of dietary supplements (including vitamins, minerals, herbs, and other dietary ingredients for human use), OTC drugs (allopathic and homeopathic), conventional foods, infant formulas, animal foods, medical devices, and cosmetics. The FDA may not accept the evidence of safety we present for new dietary supplements we wish to market, or they may determine that a particular dietary supplement or ingredient that we currently market presents an unacceptable health risk. If that occurs, we could be required to cease distribution of and/or recall supplements or products containing that ingredient. In July 2011 the FDA introduced a draft Guidance Document called “Guidance for Industry: Dietary Supplements: New Dietary Ingredient Notifications and Related Issues” relating to pre-market safety notifications. In it FDA identified standards of proof for safety and ‘grandfathering’ that would impose new burdens on the dietary supplement industry and may impact the legality of some of our existing products. FDA has accepted industry comments on the guidance but has not yet published its response or otherwise finalized the draft. The FDA may also determine that certain advertising and promotional claims, statements or activities are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and may determine that a particular statement is an unacceptable drug claim or an unauthorized version of a food or dietary supplement “health claim.” Failure to comply with FDA or other regulatory requirements could prevent us from marketing particular dietary supplement products or subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Senate seeking to provide the FDA with increased authority to regulate dietary supplements and increase labeling requirements with respect to dietary supplements. The FTC exercises jurisdiction over the advertising of dietary supplements and has instituted numerous enforcement actions against dietary supplement companies for failing to have adequate substantiation for claims made in advertising or for using false or misleading advertising claims. The FTC routinely polices the market for deceptive dietary supplement advertising and accepts and reviews complaints from the public concerning such advertising. The FTC also regulates deceptive advertising claims and promotional offers of savings compared to “regular” prices. The National Advertising Division (“NAD”), of the Council of Better Business Bureaus oversees an industry-sponsored self-regulatory system that permits competitors to resolve disputes over advertising claims, including promotions for savings off of regular prices. The NAD has no enforcement authority of its own but may refer promotions to the FTC that the NAD views as violating FTC guidelines or rules. Violations of these orders could result in substantial monetary penalties. In Europe, non-compliance by us or others of relevant legislation can result in regulators bringing administrative or, in some cases, criminal proceedings. For example, in the U.K., it is common for regulators, including the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency Enforcement & Intelligence Group, to prosecute retailers and manufacturers for non-compliance with legislation governing foodstuffs and medicines. European Union (EU) regulations and directives are implemented and enforced by individual member states and, so, enforcement priorities and applicable law can occur in multiple countries at one time. Failure by us, the manufacturers or suppliers to comply with applicable legislation could result in prosecution and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Europe has adopted broad regulations and directives on health and nutrition claims. These regulations cover claims that can be made for foods (including supplements). Certain claims, such as those regarding general well-being, behavioral functions and weight-loss, may be prohibited or require prior approval. Unless subject to derogation, products that include certain claims cannot be lawfully marketed in EU member states absent preapproval. Applicable derogations under EU directives can enlarge the period within which we may seek approval for products containing claims. An approval must proceed through the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), and the process includes the submission of a detailed dossier in support of the product claims. Lengthy delays within the new EU framework have been reported. This may severely impact our European marketing and expansion efforts. We are also anticipating the implementation of an EU directive relating to food supplements, which could significantly impact the formulation of our products. The implementation of this directive is expected to include dosage restrictions for certain vitamin and mineral supplements and may lead to some of our products being recalled or discontinued. In addition, an EU Directive governing product safety requires manufacturers to notify regulators about unsafe products and gives regulators in each member state the power to order product recalls. As a result, the number of product recalls in Europe has increased substantially. A product recall in Europe could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 imposes certain obligations on the senders of commercial emails, which could minimize the effectiveness of our email marketing campaign, and establishes financial penalties for non-compliance, which could increase the costs of our business and, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In December 2003, the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or the CAN-SPAM Act, was enacted. The CAN-SPAM Act establishes certain requirements for commercial email messages and penalizes commercial email message transmissions that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. The CAN-SPAM Act, among other things, requires that senders of commercial emails allow recipients to opt out of receiving future emails from the sender. The ability of our customers to opt out of receiving commercial emails may minimize the effectiveness of our email marketing campaign. Moreover, non-compliance with the CAN-SPAM Act carries significant financial penalties. If we were found to be in violation of the CAN-SPAM Act, applicable state laws not preempted by the CAN-SPAM Act, or foreign laws regulating the distribution of commercial email, we could be required to pay penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Taxation risks could subject us to liability for past sales, increase our costs and cause our future sales to decrease. We do not collect sales or other taxes on shipments of most of our goods into most states in the U.S. Currently, U.S. Supreme Court decisions restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, a number of states, as well as the U.S. Congress, have been considering initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives were successful, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes in additional states. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us, reduce our competitive advantage over traditional retailers and decrease our future sales. Our warehousing and expected manufacturing centers, and any future expansion of them, along with other aspects of our evolving business, may result in additional sales and other tax obligations. One or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction eCommerce companies. Effective June 2008, New York imposed such a sales tax obligation requirement on online retailers that use New York residents to directly or indirectly refer potential customers, via a link on an Internet website or otherwise, to the online retailer. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise or services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers and otherwise harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Unfavorable changes to government regulations, service interruptions or adverse consumer attitudes about online commerce could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation by impeding the growth and use of the Internet and thereby decreasing revenue. As the role and importance of online commerce has grown in the U.S., there have been continuing efforts to increase the legal and regulatory obligations and restrictions on companies conducting commerce through the Internet, primarily in the areas of taxation, consumer privacy, restrictions on imports and exports, customs, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services, which could increase the cost of conducting business over the Internet. In addition, consumer unwillingness or inability to use the Internet to conduct business, due to adverse regulation, security concerns, service interruptions or otherwise, could materially reduce our growth. Governmental laws and regulations, service interruptions or adverse attitudes about online commerce could increase the costs and liabilities associated with our online commerce activities, increase the price of our product to consumers, or reduce traffic to our website. Unfavorable resolution of these issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to a number of risks related to credit card payments we accept which, if we fail to be in compliance with applicable credit card rules and regulations, will result in additional fees, fines and ultimately the revocation of the right to use the credit card company, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For credit and debit card payments, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers. In addition, we have and may continue to suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit and debit card data. We do not carry insurance against the risk of credit card fraud, so the failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could reduce our net revenue and our gross profit percentage. We have implemented technology to help us detect the fraudulent use of credit card information. Under current practices, a merchant is liable for fraudulent credit card transactions when the merchant does not obtain a cardholder’s signature. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would result in significantly higher credit card-related costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 We may incur significant costs to protect our customers’ personal information, and may incur liability if such personal information is misappropriated, which could increase our costs, harm our reputation and reduce our sales. If our customers’ personal or credit card information is misappropriated by us or third parties that breach our network security, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims or damages for alleged violations of state or federal laws governing security protocols for the safekeeping of customers’ personal or credit card information. This liability could also include claims for other misuses of personal information, including unauthorized marketing purposes. These claims could result in litigation against us. Liability for misappropriation of this information could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. In addition, the FTC and state agencies have been investigating various Internet companies regarding their use of customers’ personal information. We could incur additional expenses if new regulations regarding the use of personal information are introduced or if government agencies investigate our privacy practices. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information such as customer credit card numbers. We cannot provide assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect our customers’ transaction data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could harm our reputation, business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to resolve problems caused by such breaches. We cannot assure you that our security measures will prevent security breaches or that failure to prevent such security breaches will not harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Laws or regulations relating to privacy and data protection may materially adversely affect the growth of our Internet business or our marketing efforts, which could reduce our sales and cause us to incur significant costs. We are subject to increasing regulation at the federal, state and international levels relating to privacy and the use of personal user information. For example, we are subject to various telemarketing laws that regulate the manner in which we may solicit future suppliers and customers. Such regulations, along with increased governmental or private enforcement, may increase the cost of growing our business. In addition, many jurisdictions have laws that limit the use of personal information gathered online or offline or require companies to establish privacy policies. The FTC has adopted regulations regarding the collection and use of personal identifying information obtained from children under thirteen years of age. Proposed legislation in this country and existing laws in foreign countries require companies to establish procedures to notify users of privacy and security policies, obtain consent from users for the collection and use of personal information, and/or provide users with the ability to access, correct and delete personal information stored by us. From time to time, Congress has proposed legislation regarding data security and privacy protection. Any enacted data protection regulations may restrict our ability to collect demographic and personal information, which could be costly or harm our marketing efforts, and could require us to implement new and potentially costly processes, procedures and/or protective measures. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could reduce our sales and increase our costs. We have applied for or registered all relevant trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, including our Vitacost, Nutraceutical Sciences Institute, Cosmeceutical Sciences Institute, Best of All, Walker Diet, Smart Basics, OcuPower, CardioLift, NeuroPower, ArthriPower and Mega EFA trademarks, among others. We believe our trademarks to be valuable and are identified strongly with our brands. Issuance of a federally registered trademark creates a rebuttable presumption of ownership of the mark; however, it is subject to challenge by others claiming first use in the mark in some or all of the areas in which it is used. We have also applied for foreign protection of certain of our trademarks in the European and Asian markets in which we operate and have registered Vitacost, NSI and Nutraceutical Sciences Institute in certain countries in these regions. Federally registered trademarks have a perpetual life, as long as they are maintained and renewed on a timely basis and used properly as trademarks, subject to the rights of third parties to seek cancellation of the trademarks if they claim priority or confusion of usage. We believe our patents and trademarks are valuable and provide us certain benefits in marketing our products. We intend to actively protect our patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses, be involved in protracted litigation or prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using some aspect of our products. Claims of intellectual property infringement may also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. Alternatively, we may be unable to obtain necessary royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Claims that our technology or products infringe on intellectual property rights of others could be costly and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 16 Third parties could use our trademarks as keywords in Internet search engine advertising programs, which may direct potential customers to competitors’ websites, which, in turn, could result in decreased sales and could harm our reputation. Competitors and other third parties could purchase our trademarks and confusingly similar terms as keywords in Internet search engine advertising programs and in the resulting sponsored link advertisements which may divert potential customers to their websites. Preventing such unauthorized use is difficult. Further, the legal precedent on whether such activity infringes on our intellectual property varies significantly within the United States and in other countries. If we are unable to protect our trademarks or confusingly similar terms from such unauthorized use, competitors and other third parties could drive potential online customers away from our website, which could result in a loss of sales and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our market share, financial condition and growth prospects. The U.S. health products industry is a large and highly fragmented industry. Our competitors include specialty retailers, supermarkets, drugstores, mass merchants, multi-level marketing organizations, online merchants, mail-order companies and a variety of other participants in the industry. The principal elements of competition in the industry are price, selection and distribution channel offerings. We believe that the market is also highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, including various prescription drugs, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. In the United States, we also compete for sales with heavily advertised national brands manufactured by large pharmaceutical and food companies, as well as other retailers. In addition, as some products gain market acceptance, we experience increased competition for those products as more participants enter the market. Our manufacturing operations compete with manufacturers of third-party nutritional supplements. Certain of our competitors are larger than us and have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and greater resources for marketing, advertising and product promotion. They may be able to secure inventory from vendors on more favorable terms, operate with a lower cost structure or adopt more aggressive pricing policies. In addition, our competitors may be more effective and efficient in introducing new products. We may not be able to compete effectively, and our attempt to do so may require us to increase marketing and/or reduce our prices, which may result in lower margins. Failure to effectively compete could materially adversely affect our market share, financial condition and growth prospects. Our failure to efficiently respond to changing consumer preferences and demand for new products and services could significantly harm our product sales, inventory management and customer relationships and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends and preferences. We may not be able to respond in a timely or commercially appropriate manner to these changes. Our failure to accurately predict these trends could negatively impact our inventory levels, sales and consumer opinion of us as a source for the latest products. The success of our new product offerings depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to: • accurately anticipate customer needs, • innovate and develop new products, • successfully commercialize new products in a timely manner, • competitively price our products, • procure and maintain products in sufficient volumes and in a timely manner; and, • differentiate our product offerings from those of our competitors. If we do not introduce new products, make enhancements to existing products or maintain the appropriate inventory levels to meet customers’ demand in a timely manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Insurance coverage, even where available, may not be sufficient to cover losses we may incur, which could increase our costs and lower our profits. Our business exposes us to the risk of liabilities arising out of our products and operations. For example, we may be liable for claims brought by users of our products or by employees, customers or other third parties for personal injury or property damage occurring in the course of our operations. Our operations are subject to closure and loss due to power outages, Internet and telephone line failures, work stoppages and acts of nature. We seek to minimize these risks through various insurance policies from third-party insurance carriers. However, our insurance coverage is subject to large individual claim deductibles, individual claim and aggregate policy limits and other terms and conditions. Our estimate of retained-insurance liabilities is subject to change as new events or circumstances develop that might materially impact the ultimate cost to settle these losses. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient to cover our losses. We do not view insurance, by itself, as a material mitigant to these business risks. Any losses that are not completely covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 The insurance industry has become more selective in offering certain types of liability insurance coverage, and we may not be able to maintain our existing coverage or obtain increased coverage in the future, which could increase our costs and reduce our profits. The insurance industry has become more selective in offering certain types of insurance, including product liability, product recall and property casualty insurance. While we believe our current insurance policies provide us adequate coverage for our current business operations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such coverage or obtain comparable coverage on terms and conditions favorable to us, if at all. Further, as we expand our business, we expect to correspondingly increase our insurance coverage, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such increased coverage if and when needed. Our manufacturing operations are located in a single location and our inventory is concentrated in two warehouse locations, which exposes us to the risk of natural disasters or other force majeure events. Losses at either location could materially adversely affect our manufacturing operations, product distributions, sales and consumer satisfaction. We house our manufacturing operations and one of our two distribution warehouses at a facility located in Lexington, North Carolina. We also operate a distribution and warehouse facility located in Las Vegas, Nevada. Any significant disruption in either of these locations for any reason, such as a power failure, equipment breakdown, workforce disruption, or natural or similar disasters, could materially adversely affect our manufacturing operations, product distributions, sales and consumer satisfaction. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors or securities analysts, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section in this Annual Report: • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers; • changes in the volume and mix of dietary supplements and health and wellness products sold in a particular quarter; • the timing and success of new dietary supplement introductions or reformulations by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • competition, including entry into the market by new competitors including traditional brick and mortar retailers and new product offerings by existing competitors; • the amount and timing of expenditures related to expanding our operations, research and development or introducing new products; • changes in the payment terms for our products and services; and • the purchasing cycles of our customers. Most of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term, and our expense levels are based in part on our expectations regarding future revenue levels. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our expectations, we may not be able to proportionally reduce operating expenses for that quarter, causing a disproportionate effect on our expected results of operations for that quarter. If we are unable to sufficiently increase our revenue to offset increased costs as we expand our business, we may experience operating losses, net losses or negative cash flows. We expect operating expenses and working capital requirements to increase substantially as we expand our business. We expect our costs of product development, sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing and general and administrative expenses to increase substantially as a result of our growth. If we are unable to continue to sufficiently increase our revenue to offset these increased costs, we will not maintain profitability and may experience operating losses, net losses or negative cash flows. Healthcare reform measures and related changes in applicable federal and state laws could materially adversely affect our business. The efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. As part of the 2010 U.S. health care reform initiative, non-prescription products are no longer eligible for purchase using flexible spending accounts. We expect that there will continue to be a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the healthcare system, which could include restructuring the tax benefits available through flexible spending accounts and/or health savings accounts. If the laws or regulations are changed to limit further the tax benefits through these accounts, such a change could have a material adverse effect on our business by reducing revenues and eroding our margins. Certain stockholders own a significant amount of our common stock, which could discourage an acquisition of Vitacost.com or make removal of incumbent management more difficult. Great Hill Investors, LLC, Great Hill Equity Partners III, L.P. and Great Hill Equity Partners IV, L.P. (collectively, “GHP”) beneficially own approximately 19.16% of our outstanding stock. Because GHP owns a significant percentage of our capital stock, it could significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Furthermore, because of the substantial equity stake in Vitacost.com, potential acquirers could decide not to merge with, or acquire us. 18 Risks Related to Our Common Stock If we are unable to comply with rules and regulations of the NASDAQ Stock Market, our common stock could be delisted from NASDAQ. On December 7, 2010, trading in our common stock was temporarily suspended by NASDAQ for failure to comply with rules and regulations relating to the timely filing of SEC reports. On December 21, 2010, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that based on its review of the Company, the NASDAQ staff had determined that continued listing of our securities on NASDAQ was no longer warranted. In accordance with the procedures set forth in the NASDAQ Listing Rules, we timely appealed the staff determination, and requested a hearing before a NASDAQ Hearings Panel (the “Panel”). The hearing was held on February 3, 2011. On February 28, 2011, we received a written notice from NASDAQ indicating that the Panel had determined to grant our request to remain listed on NASDAQ, subject to certain conditions, including that (1) on or before June 20, 2011, we become current in our filing obligations, and demonstrated compliance with all quantitative requirements for continued listing, and (2) on or before July 5, 2011, we have solicited proxies and held our annual meeting. On June 20, 2011, trading of our securities on NASDAQ resumed. On July 6, 2011, we received a letter from NASDAQ indicating that we had met the requirements of the Panel’s decision and the applicable listing requirements and that accordingly the Panel had determined to continue listing our securities on the NASDAQ Stock Market. If we are unable to comply with the NASDAQ requirements in the future, our common stock could again be suspended from trading or be delisted from NASDAQ. A trading suspension or delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock and the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our stock price and ability to raise equity financing. Volatility of our stock price could materially adversely affect an investment in our common stock. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly as a result of, among other things: • quarterly and annual variations in our operating results, • the level and quality of research analyst coverage for our common stock, changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business or failure to meet such estimates, • the financial disclosure we may provide to the public, any changes in such disclosure or our failure to meet such disclosure, • the public’s response to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, • various market factors or perceived market factors, including rumors, whether or not correct, involving us, our customers, our suppliers or our competitors, • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles, • sales of common stock by our directors, officers or significant stockholders, • introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors, • recruitment or departure of key personnel, • developments with respect to intellectual property rights, • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors, • changes in shipping costs, • short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions in shares of our common stock, • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, • broad market conditions and trends in the eCommerce industry and the economy as a whole; and, • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock could contribute to the loss of all or part of a stockholder’s investment. Any of the factors listed above could have a material adverse effect on an investment in our common stock. In addition, stocks of Internet-related and eCommerce companies have historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to these companies’ operating performance. Public announcements by us or other such companies concerning, among other things, performance, accounting practices or legal problems could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. We could be the subject of securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility, which could divert management’s attention and materially adversely affect our results of operations. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 