Item 1A. Risk Factors.An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report and our other filings with the SEC. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, capital levels, cash flows, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. The market price of our common stock could decline significantly due to any of these identified or other risks and you could lose some or all of your investment. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.Certain regulatory restrictions are imposed on us and lack of compliance could result in monetary penalties and/or additional regulatory actions.The Bank entered into an Order with the FDIC and the DFI, which became effective on September 24, 2010. Under the terms of the Order, the Bank was required, among other things, to take certain measures in the areas of management, capital, classified assets, loan loss allowance determination, lending, liquidity management, board oversight, maintaining minimum capital ratios and reducing assets classified as substandard. On March 27, 2012, the FDIC and the DFI terminated the Order as a result of the steps First Savings Bank had taken to comply with the Order and reducing its level of classified assets, increasing earnings, augmenting management and improving the overall condition of First Savings Bank. In connection with the lifting of the Order, First Savings Bank entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (“Bank MOU”) with the FDIC and the DFI.The Bank MOU contains provisions concerning the management and directors of First Savings Bank, interest rate risk, minimum capital levels, the ALLL, lending and collection policies, policies concerning First Savings Bank and its affiliates, restrictions on paying dividends and a requirement to furnish progress reports to the FDIC and the DFI. Specifically, First Savings Bank is required to maintain a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio and a Total risk-based capital ratio of no less than 10% and 12%, respectively. In addition, First Savings Bank is required to give notice, and receive approval from the FDIC and the DFI regarding any additions to its Board or management. On April 14, 2010, the members of the Board of Directors of First Financial Northwest entered into a Memorandum of Understanding ("Company MOU") with the OTS which is now enforced by the Federal Reserve as the successor to the OTS. Under the terms of the Company MOU, the Company agreed, among other things, to provide notice to and obtain written non-objection from the Federal Reserve prior to the Company (a) declaring a dividend or redeeming any capital stock; and (b) incurring, issuing, renewing or repurchasing any new debt. In addition, both the Company and the Bank must obtain prior regulatory approval before adding any new director or senior executive officer or changing the responsibilities of any current senior executive officer or pay pursuant to or by entering into certain severance and other forms of compensation agreements.At December 31, 2012, First Savings Bank exceeded all current regulatory capital requirements, including the requirements in the Bank MOU, and the Bank has implemented a comprehensive plan in an attempt to achieve full compliance with the Bank MOU. See Item 1, “Business – How We Are Regulated – Regulation and Supervision of First Savings Bank – Capital Requirements,” and Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 for additional information regarding regulatory capital requirements for First Savings Bank for the year ended December 31, 2012.The Bank MOU and the Company MOU will remain in effect until stayed, modified, terminated or suspended by the FDIC and the DFI, and the Federal Reserve, as the case may be. If either the Company or the Bank fail to comply with the Bank MOU and the Company MOU, they could be subject to various remedies, including among others, the regulator’s exercise of powers to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to direct an increase in capital, to restrict growth, to remove officers and/or directors and to assess civil monetary penalties. Although compliance will be determined by the applicable regulators, management believes that the Company and the Bank will comply in all material respects with their respective MOUs. Any of these regulators may, however, determine at their sole discretion that the matters covered in a MOU have not been addressed satisfactorily, or that any current or past actions, violations, or deficiencies could be the subject of further regulatory enforcement actions. Such enforcement actions could involve penalties or limitations on our business and negatively affect our ability to implement our business plan, pay dividends on our common stock or the value of our common stock as well as our financial condition and results of operations.42Our business may continue to be adversely affected by downturns.Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the state of Washington. A continuing decline in the economies of the four counties in which we operate, which we consider to be our primary market area, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, Washington has experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures and has experienced above average unemployment rates.Continued weakness or a further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations:•loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;•we may increase our allowance for loan losses;•demand for our products and services may decline resulting in a decrease in our total loans or assets;•collateral for loans, especially real estate, may decline further in value, exposing us to increased risk of loss on existing loans, reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; •the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and•the amount of our low-cost or noninterest-bearing deposits may decrease and the composition of our deposits may be adversely affected.A decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values, our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected.A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.The ongoing debate in Congress regarding the national debt ceiling and federal budget deficit, and concerns over the United States' credit rating (which was downgraded by Standard & Poor's), the European sovereign debt crisis, the overall weakness in the economy and continued high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition.Furthermore, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.Our construction/land development loans are based upon estimates of costs and the value of the completed project.We make construction/land development loans to contractors and builders primarily to finance the construction of single-family homes and subdivisions. We originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. At December 31, 2012, construction/land development loans totaled $19.4 million, or 2.9% of our total loan portfolio. Land loans, which are loans made with land as security, totaled $10.4 million, or 1.6% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2012. Land loans include raw land and land acquisition and development loans. In addition, at December 31, 2012, we had $8.4 million of multifamily construction loans and $608,000 of one-to-four family construction loans.Construction/land development lending generally involves additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction 43costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. In addition, because of current uncertainties in the residential real estate market, property values have become more difficult to determine than they have historically been. This type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. A further downturn in housing, or the real estate market, could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Many of our builders have more than one loan outstanding with us and also have residential mortgage loans for rental properties with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss.These loans often involve the disbursement of funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. These loans are also generally more difficult to monitor. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. At December 31, 2012, $9.0 million of our construction/land development loans were for speculative construction loans and $4.8 million, or 24.7%, of our construction/land development loans were classified as nonperforming.Our level of commercial and multifamily real estate loans may expose us to increased lending risks.While commercial and multifamily real estate lending may potentially be more profitable than single-family residential lending, it is generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. At December 31, 2012, we had $221.9 million of commercial real estate loans, representing 32.9% of our total loan portfolio and $111.5 million of multifamily loans, representing 16.5% of our total loan portfolio. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Commercial and multifamily loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by one-to-four family residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multifamily real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. Further, many of our commercial and multifamily borrowers have more than one loan with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss.A secondary market for most types of commercial and multifamily real estate loans is not readily available, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. As a result of these characteristics, if we foreclose on a commercial or multifamily real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one-to-four family residential loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Accordingly, charge-offs on commercial real estate loans may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios.Our non-owner occupied real estate loans may expose us to increased credit risk.At December 31, 2012, $139.8 million, or 45.5% of our one-to-four family residential mortgage loan portfolio and 21.0% of our total loan portfolio, net of LIP, consisted of loans secured by non-owner occupied residential properties. At December 31, 2012, nonperforming, non-owner occupied one-to-four family residential loans amounted to $2.2 million. Prior to foreclosure, loans that were classified as non-owner occupied residential properties and are now classified as OREO, amounted to $2.4 million at December 31, 2012. Loans secured by non-owner occupied properties generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than loans secured by owner occupied properties because repayment of such loans depend primarily on the tenant’s continuing ability to pay rent to the property owner, who is our borrower, or, if the property owner is unable to find a tenant, the property owner’s ability to repay the loan without the benefit of a rental income stream. In addition, the physical condition of non-owner occupied properties is often below that of owner occupied properties due to lax property maintenance standards, which has a negative impact on the value of the collateral properties. Furthermore, some of our non-owner occupied residential loan borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. At December 31, 2012, we had 50 non-owner occupied residential loan relationships, each having an outstanding balance over $500,000, with aggregate outstanding balances of $111.5 million. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one 44credit relationship may expose us to a greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to an owner occupied residential mortgage loan.Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.At December 31, 2012, $307.0 million, or 45.6% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by first liens on one-to-four family residential loans. In addition, at December 31, 2012, our home equity lines of credit totaled $8.5 million. These types of loans are generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the Washington housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the sales prices coupled with the current recession and the associated elevated unemployment rates may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, and a decline in demand for our products and services. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity and damage our financial condition and business operations.High loan-to-value ratios on a portion of our residential mortgage loan portfolio exposes us to greater risk of loss.Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because of the decline in home values in our market area. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses.If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations.For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $3.1 million and $4.7 million, respectively. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $7.1 million and $10.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We continue to experience loan delinquencies and credit losses. Slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market has been the primary cause of foreclosures for residential construction/land development loans, which represent 18.4% of our nonperforming assets at December 31, 2012 compared with 34.6% at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2012 our total nonperforming assets had decreased to $40.1 million compared to $49.7 million at December 31, 2011. Further, construction/land development and commercial real estate loans have a higher risk of loss than residential loans.If current weak conditions in the housing and real estate markets continue or if weak economic conditions in our market area persist, we may experience higher delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we could be required to increase our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may experience fluctuations in our operating results.We reported net income of $ 2.7 million and $4.2 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively; however, we recorded a net loss of $54.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The losses in 2010 primarily resulted from our high level of nonperforming assets and the resultant increased provision for loan losses. Although, our nonperforming assets have declined, we continue to monitor the performance and strength of our loan portfolio, as increases in our nonperforming assets and provision for loan losses could cause us to incur losses in future quarterly or annual periods. In addition, several factors affecting our business can cause significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results of operations. In particular, fluctuations in the volume of our loan originations, the differences between our cost of funds and yield on assets and problems generally affecting the mortgage loan industry can result in increases or decreases in our revenues from quarter to quarter.Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.Lending is a primary part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things:•the cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;•in the case of a collateralized loan, changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral;•the duration of the loan;45•the credit history of a particular borrower; and•changes in economic and industry conditions.We maintain an ALLL, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:•our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience, certain macroeconomic factors and management’s expectations of future events; and•our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of nonperforming loans and their underlying collateral.The determination of the appropriate level of the ALLL inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the ALLL, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the ALLL may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for increases in our provision for loan losses. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the ALLL. Slower sales, excess inventory and declining prices in the housing market have been the primary causes of the recent increases in delinquencies and foreclosure in our loan portfolio. If current weak conditions in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect we will continue to experience further delinquencies and credit losses. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the ALLL we will need additional provisions to replenish the ALLL.Our ALLL was 1.89% of loans net of LIP and 55.11% of nonperforming loans net of LIP at December 31, 2012. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our ALLL and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and capital. If our investments in other real estate owned are not properly valued and managed our earnings could be reduced.We have foreclosed and continue to foreclose on loans in our portfolio. We use current property valuations in the form of appraisals when a loan has been foreclosed and the property taken in as OREO. Subsequently, an evaluation is performed by our experienced lending staff during the assets’ holding period. Our net book value in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset's net book value over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of our investments in OREO may not be sufficient to recover our net book value in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. In addition, we may incur significant property management and legal expenses related to our OREO. Additional material charge-offs or expenses relating to our OREO could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.In addition, bank regulators periodically review our OREO and may require us to recognize additional charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by such regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and capital.Our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows are subject to interest rate risk.Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but these changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and (iii) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.46Further, a portion of our adjustable-rate loans have interest rate floors below which the loan's contractual interest rate may not adjust. Approximately 17% of our total loans were comprised of adjustable-rate loans at December 31, 2012. At that date, $44.8 million, or 38.4%, of these loans with an average interest rate of 4.93% were at their floor interest rate. The inability of our loans to adjust downward can contribute to increased income in periods of declining interest rates, although this result is subject to the risks that borrowers may refinance these loans during periods of declining interest rates. Also, when loans are at their floors, there is a further risk that our interest income may not increase as rapidly as our cost of funds during periods of increasing interest rates which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively as our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet or projected operating results. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed.Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.During the last four years it has been the policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, yields on securities we have purchased, and market rates on the loans we have originated, have been at levels lower than were available prior to 2008. Consequently, the average yield on our interest-earning assets has decreased during the recent low interest rate environment. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has contributed to increases in net interest income in the short term. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the near future. Accordingly, our net interest income may decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability. For information with respect to changes in interest rates, see “- Our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows are subject to interest rate risk.”Further deterioration in the financial position of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle may result in future impairment losses on our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle stock.At December 31, 2012, we owned $7.3 million in FHLB stock. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. This requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and it is subject to recoverability testing per accounting guidance for the impairment of long lived assets. The FHLB announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the FHFA, its primary regulator as of December 31, 2008, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, the FHLB has not paid a dividend since the fourth quarter of 2008. The Federal Home Loan Bank has communicated that it believes the calculation of risk-based capital under the current rules of the FHFA significantly overstates the market risk of the FHLB's private-label mortgage-backed securities in the current market environment and that it has enough capital to cover the risks reflected in its balance sheet. As a result, we have not recorded an OTTI on our investment in FHLB stock. Any further deterioration, however, in the Federal Home Loan Bank's financial position may result in future impairment in the value of those securities. In addition, on October 25, 2010, the FHLB entered into a Consent Order with the FHFA. The Consent Order required, among other matters, the FHLB meet and maintain certain minimum financial requirements. The FHLB reported, in its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, that it continues to address the requirements of the Consent Order and that, as of September 30, 2012, it met all minimum financial metrics required under the Consent Order. Further, the FHLB reported that in September 2012 the FHFA reclassified the FHLB to be adequately capitalized. Any dividends on, or repurchases of, the FHLB stock continue to require consent of the FHFA. The FHFA recently approved the FHLB to repurchase a portion of its stock and $132,000 of FHLB stock was purchased from the Bank during 2012. The FHLB has not indicated when dividend payments may resume. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment.Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessments will hurt our earnings.The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% of total insured deposits as the minimum reserve ratio. The FDIC has adopted a plan under which it will meet this ratio by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. For institutions with assets less than $10 billion, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio to 1.35% from the former minimum of 1.15%. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset. In addition to the statutory minimum 47ratio, the FDIC must set a designated reserve ratio, which may exceed the statutory minimum. The FDIC has set 2.0% as the designated reserve ratio.As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has adopted final regulations under which insurance premiums are based on an institution’s total assets minus its tangible equity instead of its deposits. While our FDIC premiums initially will be reduced, it is possible that our insurance premiums will increase under these final regulations in future periods.Continued weak or worsening credit availability could limit our ability to replace deposits and fund loan demand, which could adversely affect our earnings and capital levels.Continued weak or worsening credit availability and the inability to obtain adequate funding to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may negatively affect asset growth and, consequently, our earnings capability and capital levels. In addition to any deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, we rely from time to time on advances from the FHLB and other funding sources to fund loans. Negative operating results or economic conditions could adversely affect these additional funding sources, which could limit the funds available to us. Our liquidity position could be significantly constrained if we are unable to access funds from the FHLB, or other wholesale funding sources, or if adequate financing is not available at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively affected.Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. In addition, recent changes in the collateralization requirements and other provisions of the Washington public funds deposit programs have changed the economic benefit associated with accepting public funds deposits, which may affect our need to utilize alternative sources of liquidity. At December 31, 2012 we had $1.8 million in public funds.Our single branch location limits our ability to attract retail deposits and as a result a large portion of our deposits are certificates of deposit, including “Jumbo” certificates which may not be as stable as other types of deposits.Our single branch location limits our ability to compete with larger institutions for noninterest bearing deposits as these institutions have a larger branch network providing greater convenience to customers. As a result, we are dependent on more interest rate sensitive deposits. At December 31, 2012, $463.7 million, or 69.6%, of our total deposits were certificates of deposit and, of that amount, $331.6 million, or 71.5%, were “jumbo” certificates of $100,000 or more ($1.8 million, or 0.3% of our total deposits were public funds). In addition, deposit inflows are significantly influenced by general interest rates. Our money market accounts and jumbo certificates of deposit and the retention of these deposits are particularly sensitive to general interest rates, making these deposits traditionally a more volatile source of funding than other deposit accounts. In order to retain our money market accounts and jumbo certificates of deposit, we may have to pay a higher rate, resulting in an increase in our cost of funds. In a rising rate environment, we may be unwilling or unable to pay a competitive rate because of the resulting compression in our interest rate spread. To the extent that such deposits do not remain with us, they may need to be replaced with borrowings or other deposits which could increase our cost of funds and negatively impact our interest rate spread and financial condition.We may be required to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed, or it may only be available on unacceptable terms, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations and pursue our growth strategy could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to raise additional capital when required by our bank regulators, we may be subject to adverse regulatory action.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has, among other things, tightened capital standards, created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and will result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations.48First Savings Bank is subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the FDIC and the DFI, and First Financial Northwest is subject to examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve. The FDIC, the DFI and the Federal Reserve govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the DIF. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on an institution's operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of an institution's ALLL and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed.Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and has affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting and implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years.Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on us. For example, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense.The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor.The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments and authorizes the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidate using a company's proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to executives of bank holding company and savings and loan holding company, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new CFPB with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, such as First Savings Bank, will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators.It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on us. It is expected, however, that at a minimum, compliance with this law and implementing its regulations will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. Any additional changes in our regulation and oversight, whether in the form of new laws, rules or regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. For additional information, see Item 1, “Business – How We Are Regulated – New Legislation.”The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules is uncertain.In June 2012, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency proposed rules that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to First Financial Northwest and the Bank. The proposed rules were subject to a public comment period that has expired and there is no date set for the adoption of final rules.Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will increase the capital requirements of savings and loan holding companies, and bank holding companies. The leverage and risk-based capital ratios of these entities may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The proposed rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which would be phased in during 2013 and 2014, and would refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The proposed new minimum capital level requirements applicable to First Financial Northwest and the Bank under the proposals would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 49capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the proposed Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to First Financial Northwest and First Savings Bank.In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, regulators of financial institutions and their holding companies have become more likely to impose capital requirements that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations.The application of more stringent capital requirements for First Financial Northwest and First Savings Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares.New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit our stockholders. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution's ALLL. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading “Item 1. Business - How We Are Regulated.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time.Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, restrict mergers and acquisitions, investments, access to capital, the location of banking offices and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. For example, recent regulatory changes to the rules for overdraft fees for debit transactions and interchange fees could reduce our fee income which would result in a reduction of our noninterest income. Further, legislative proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. If proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, were to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses on our loans, or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Our failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputational damage and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur.Our litigation related costs might increase.The Bank, from time to time, becomes subject to legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of the Bank’s business. In the current economic environment litigation may increase significantly as a result of defaulted borrowers asserting claims to defeat or delay foreclosure proceedings. Expenses of legal proceedings could adversely affect the Bank’s results of operations until they are resolved. There can be no assurance that the Bank’s loan workout and other activities will not expose the Bank to legal actions, including lender liability or environmental claims.State taxes may increase.Washington State currently has a deficit for the ensuing biennium of approximately $1.5 billion and as a result, state taxes may increase. The State Legislature is considering a variety of tax measures to balance the State budget which, if passed into law, may increase our State tax expense.50Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities.In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology.We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality, as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business.The operations of our business, including our interaction with customers, are increasingly done via electronic means, and this has increased our risks related to cybersecurity.We are exposed to the risk of cyber-attacks in the normal course of business. In general, cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. We have observed an increased level of attention in the industry focused on cyber-attacks that include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data or causing operational disruption. Cyber-attacks may also be carried out in a manner that does not require gaining unauthorized access, such as by causing denial-of-service attacks on websites. Cyber-attacks may be carried out by third parties or insiders using techniques that range from highly sophisticated efforts to electronically circumvent network security or overwhelm websites to more traditional intelligence gathering and social engineering aimed at obtaining information necessary to gain access. The objectives of cyber-attacks vary widely and can include theft of financial assets, intellectual property, or other sensitive information, including the information belonging to our banking customers. Cyber-attacks may also be directed at disrupting our operations.While we have not incurred any material losses related to cyber-attacks, nor are we aware of any specific or threatened cyber-incidents as of the date of this report, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences if we fall victim to successful cyber-attacks. Such negative consequences could include remediation costs that may include liability for stolen assets or information and repairing system damage that may have been caused; increased cybersecurity protection costs that may include organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third party experts and consultants; lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack; litigation; and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence.If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could materially adversely affect our business, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. In connection with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Act) and the implementation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy 51the requirements of Section 404 of the Act. This requires us to prepare an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including among other matters, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. If we fail to identify and correct any deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable. First Financial Northwest has not received any written comments from the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended that are unresolved.