D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common shares. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for dividends or the trading price of our common shares. Industry Specific Risk Factors Charter hire rates for drybulk carriers may decrease in the future, which may adversely affect our earnings The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates and profitability. The degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of drybulk carriers has varied widely. Although charter hire rates decreased slightly during 2005 and the first half of 2006, since July 2006, charter rates have risen sharply and are currently near their historical highs reached during October and November 2007. Charter hire rates for Panamax and Capesize drybulk carriers have declined from their historical high levels during the first quarter in 2008. Because we generally charter our vessels pursuant to one-to two year time charters, we are exposed to changes in spot market rates for drybulk carriers and such changes may affect our earnings and the value of our drybulk carriers at any given time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders. The supply of and demand for shipping capacity strongly influences freight rates. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: · demand for and production of drybulk products; · global and regional economic and political conditions including developments in international trade, fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production and armed conflicts; · the distance drybulk is to be moved by sea; · environmental and other regulatory developments; and 7 · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. The factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · port and canal congestion; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · vessel casualties; and · the number of vessels that are out of service, i.e. laid-up, drydocked, awaiting repairs or otherwise not available for hire. In addition to the prevailing and anticipated freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing fleet in the market and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors influencing the supply of and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control, and we may not be able to correctly assess the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk carriers will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world's economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargo to be transported by sea. The capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and there can be no assurance that economic growth will continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity may lead to reductions in charter hire rates and profitability The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing, and the number of drybulk carriers on order are near historic highs. These newbuildings were delivered in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2006 and continued to be delivered in significant numbers through 2007. As of January 2008, newbuilding orders had been placed for an aggregate of more than 48.0% of the current global drybulk fleet, with deliveries expected during the next 48 months. An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity may result in a reduction of charter hire rates. If such a reduction occurs, upon the expiration or termination of our vessels’ current charters we may only be able to re-charter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all. An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations A significant number of the port calls made by our vessels involve the loading or discharging of drybulk commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, but particularly in China, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In recent years, China has been one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. We cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained or that the Chinese economy will not experience negative growth in the future. Moreover, a slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union or certain Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial position, results of operations, ability to pay dividends as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries. 8 The market values of our vessels may decrease, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow under our senior secured credit facilities or cause us to breach covenants in our senior secured credit facilities and adversely affect our operating results The fair market values of drybulk carriers have generally experienced high volatility. The market prices for secondhand drybulk carriers reached historic highs in 2007. You should expect the market value of our vessels to fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry and prevailing charter hire rates, competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation, types, sizes and ages of vessels, applicable governmental regulations and the cost of newbuildings. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be able to draw down the full amount of our senior secured credit facilities that we have entered into and we may not be able to obtain other financing or incur debt on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. Further, while we believe that the current aggregate market value of our drybulk vessels will be in excess of amounts required under the senior secured credit facilities that we have entered into, a decrease in these values could cause us to breach some of the covenants that are contained in our senior secured credit facilities and in future financing agreements that we may enter into from time to time. If we do breach such covenants and we are unable to remedy the relevant breach, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. In addition, if the book value of one of our vessels is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, we would incur a loss that could adversely affect our operating results. Please see the section of this annual report entitled “The Drybulk Shipping Industry” for information concerning historical prices of drybulk carriers. World events could affect our results of operations and financial condition The threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere continues to cause uncertainty in the world’s financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we can pay dividends We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results, which could affect the amount of dividends that we pay to our stockholders from quarter to quarter. The drybulk carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, our revenues have historically been weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, our revenues have historically been stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. While this seasonality has not materially affected our operating results, it could materially affect our operating results and cash available for distribution to our stockholders as dividends in the future. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits The cost of fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geo-political developments, supply and demand for oil, actions by members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns and regulations. 9 We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flows and net income and could subject us to increased liability under applicable law or regulation Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions and national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with them or their impact on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and that may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates, and financial assurances with respect to our operations. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations' International Maritime Organization's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks which could affect our earnings and cash flow The operation of certain ship types, such as drybulk carriers, has certain unique risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the vessel can be an operational risk. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold) and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels’ holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel’s bulkheads leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may seek to obtain security for its claim by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings 10 A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution as dividends to our shareholders. Company Specific Risk Factors Our earnings and the amount of dividends that we are able to pay in the future may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels We employ our drybulk carriers primarily on one and two year time charters. Period charters provide relatively steady streams of revenue, but vessels committed to period charters may not be available for spot voyages during periods of increasing charter hire rates, when spot voyages might be more profitable. Charter hire rates for drybulk carriers are volatile, and in the past charter hire rates for drybulk carriers have declined below operating costs of vessels. If our vessels become available for employment in the spot market or under new period charters during periods when market prices have fallen, we may have to employ our vessels at depressed market prices, which would lead to reduced or volatile earnings. We cannot assure you that future charter hire rates will enable us to operate our vessels profitably or to pay you dividends. Our charterers may terminate or default on their charters, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow Our charters may terminate earlier than the dates indicated in this annual report. The terms of our charters vary as to which events or occurrences will cause a charter to terminate or give the charterer the option to terminate the charter, but these generally include a total or constructive total loss of the related vessel, the requisition for hire of the related vessel or the failure of the related vessel to meet specified performance criteria. In addition, the ability of each of our charterers to perform its obligations under a charter will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control. These factors may include general economic conditions, the condition of the drybulk shipping industry, the charter rates received for specific types of vessels and various operating expenses. The costs and delays associated with the default by a charterer of a vessel may be considerable and may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. We cannot predict whether our charterers will, upon the expiration of their charters, recharter our vessels on favorable terms or at all. If our charterers decide not to re-charter our vessels, we may not be able to recharter them on terms similar to the terms of our current charters or at all. In the future, we may also employ our vessels on the spot charter market, which is subject to greater rate fluctuation than the time charter market. If we receive lower charter rates under replacement charters or are unable to recharter all of our vessels, the amounts available, if any, to pay dividends to our shareholders may be significantly reduced or eliminated. Investment in derivative instruments such as freight forward agreements could result in losses From time to time, we may take positions in derivative instruments including freight forward agreements, or FFAs. FFAs and other derivative instruments may be used to hedge a vessel owner's exposure to the charter market by providing for the sale of a contracted charter rate along a specified route and period of time. Upon settlement, if the contracted charter rate is less than the average of the rates, as reported by an identified index, for the specified route and time period, the seller of the FFA is required to pay the buyer an amount equal to the difference between the contracted rate and the settlement rate, multiplied by the number of days in the specified period. Conversely, if the contracted rate is greater than the settlement rate, the buyer is required to pay the seller the settlement sum. If we take positions in FFAs or other derivative instruments and do not correctly anticipate charter rate movements over the specified route and time period, we could suffer losses in the settling or termination of the FFA. This could adversely affect our results of operation and cash flow. 11 We cannot assure you that we will pay dividends Our policy is to pay quarterly dividends in February, May, August and November of each year as described in "Our Dividend Policy." However, we may incur other expenses or liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends. Our loan agreements, including our existing and new senior secured credit facilities, may also prohibit our declaration and payment of dividends under some circumstances. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends will be subject at all times to the discretion of our board of directors. The timing and amount of dividends will depend on our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, fleet renewal and expansion, restrictions in our loan agreements, the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends and other factors. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon the payment of such dividends. There can be no assurance that dividends will be paid in the anticipated amounts and frequency set forth in this annual report or at all. We may have difficulty effectively managing our planned growth, which may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends Since the completion of our initial public offering in August 2007, we have taken delivery of four Panamax drybulk carriers and one Supramax drybulk carrier. The addition of these vessels to our fleet has resulted in a significant increase in the size of our fleet and imposes significant additional responsibilities on our management and staff. While we expect our fleet to grow further, this may require us to increase the number of our personnel. We will also have to increase our customer base to provide continued employment for the new vessels. Our future growth will primarily depend on our ability to: · locate and acquire suitable vessels; · identify and consummate acquisitions or joint ventures; · integrating any acquired business successfully with our existing operations; · enhance our customer base; · manage our expansion; and · obtain required financing on acceptable terms. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, the possibility that indemnification agreements will be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential losses and difficulties associated with imposing common standards, controls, procedures and policies, obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and integrating newly acquired assets and operations into existing infrastructure. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth. If we are not able to successfully grow the size of our company or increase the size of our fleet, our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected. The expansion of our fleet may impose significant additional responsibilities on our management and staff, and the management and staff of Allseas Marine S.A., or Allseas, which is responsible for all of the commercial and technical management functions for our fleet and is an affiliate of our chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Michael Bodouroglou, and may necessitate that we, and they, increase the number of personnel. Allseas may have to increase its customer base to provide continued employment for our fleet, and such costs will be passed on to us by Allseas. 12 We are dependent on Allseas for the commercial and technical management our fleet The only employees we currently have are Mr. Bodouroglou, our chief executive officer, George Skrimizeas, our chief operating officer, Christopher Thomas, our chief financial officer, and Maria Stefanou, our internal legal counsel and corporate secretary and we currently have no plans to hire additional employees. As we subcontract the commercial and technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair, to Allseas, the loss of Allseas’ services or its failure to perform its obligations to us could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Although we may have rights against Allseas if it defaults on its obligations to us, you will have no recourse directly against Allseas. Further, we expect that we will need to seek approval from our lenders to change our commercial and technical manager. Allseas is a privately held company and there is little or no publicly available information about it The ability of Allseas to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair Allseas’ financial strength, and because it is privately held it is unlikely that information about its financial strength would become public unless Allseas began to default on its obligations. As a result, an investor in our shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting Allseas, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. Our chairman and chief executive officer has affiliations with Allseas which may create conflicts of interest Our chairman and chief executive officer is the beneficial owner of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Allseas. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and Allseas, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the chartering, purchase, sale and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus vessels managed by other companies affiliated with Allseas and Mr. Bodouroglou. Allseas may give preferential treatment to vessels that are beneficially owned by related parties because Mr. Bodouroglou and members of his family may receive greater economic benefits. In particular, Allseas currently provides management services to five drybulk carriers, other than the vessels in our fleet, that are owned by entities affiliated with Mr. Bodouroglou, and such entities may acquire additional vessels that will compete with our vessels in the future. Mr. Bodouroglou granted to us the right to purchase the remaining five vessels for which Allseas provides management services which was declined, as well as a right of first refusal over future vessels that he or entities affiliated with him may seek to acquire in the future. However, we may not exercise our right to acquire all or any of these vessels in the future, and such vessels may compete with our fleet. These conflicts of interest may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Servicing our outstanding debt and any future indebtedness that we incur will limit funds available for other purposes such as the payment of dividends In addition to our current outstanding indebtedness, we expect to incur additional secured debt. While we do not intend to use operating cash to pay down principal, we must dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the interest on our debt. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. We will have to incur debt in order to expand our fleet, which could increase our ratio of debt to equity. The need to service our debt may limit funds available for other purposes, including distributing cash to our shareholders, and our inability to service debt could lead to acceleration of our debt and foreclosure on our fleet. Our senior secured credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities Our senior secured credit facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; 13 · create liens on our assets; · sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; · make investments; · engage in mergers or acquisitions; · pay dividends; · make capital expenditures; · compete effectively to the extent our competitors are subject to less onerous financial restrictions; · change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel; and · sell our vessels. Therefore, our discretion is limited because we may need to obtain consent from our lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ consent when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our shareholders’ best interest. Our credit facilities impose certain conditions on the payment of dividends The terms of our credit facilities contain a number of financial covenants and general covenants that require us to, among other things, maintain vessel market values of at least 140% and in case of a dividend declaration at least 154% (a ratio which we will determine quarterly and at each dividend payment date) of the outstanding facility amount, minimum cash balances and insurance including, but not limited to, hull and machinery insurance in an amount at least equal to the fair market value of the vessels financed, as determined by third party valuations. We may not be permitted to pay dividends under our credit facilities if we are in default of any of these loan covenants or if we do not meet specified debt coverage ratios. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be dependent on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, drybulk carriers may result in increased operating costs and off-hire days for our vessels, which could adversely affect our earnings While we normally inspect secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us, and accordingly, we may not discover defects or other problems with such vessels prior to purchase. If this were to occur, such hidden defects or problems, when detected, may be expensive to repair, and if not detected, may result in accidents or other incidents for which we may become liable to third parties. Generally, we do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. In the highly competitive international shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources 14 We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargo by sea is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the drybulk shipping industry and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and results of operations Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. We have entered into employment agreements with each of our chairman and chief executive officer, chief operating officer, chief financial officer and our internal legal counsel and corporate secretary. We have consulting agreements with companies beneficially owned by the chief executive officer, the chief operating officer, the chief financial officer and the internal legal counsel and corporate secretary. Our success will depend upon our ability to hire and retain key members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. We do not intend to maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. Risks associated with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues and stock price The operation of ocean-going vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: · marine disaster; · environmental accidents; · cargo and property losses or damage; · business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and · piracy. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose our vessels or to compensate third parties We are insured against tort claims and some contractual claims (including claims related to environmental damage and pollution) through memberships in protection and indemnity associations or clubs, or P&I Associations. We also procure hull and machinery insurance and war risk insurance for our fleet. We insure our vessels for third party liability claims subject to and in accordance with the rules of the P&I Associations in which the vessels are entered. We can give no assurance that we will be adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs or lower our revenue. We cannot assure you that we would be able to renew our insurance policies on the same or commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, protection and indemnity insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, our insurance may be avoidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Further, we cannot assure you that our insurance policies will cover all losses that we incur. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. 15 Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydocking repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings and cash flow. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. Our current fleet consists of seven Panamax drybulk carriers, three Handymax drybulk carriers and one Supramax drybulk carrier with an aggregate capacity of approximately 706,358 dwt and a weighted average age of seven years as of December 31, 2007. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may also require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations We generate substantially all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but certain of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to these other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the U.S. dollar falls in value could increase, decreasing our net income and cash flow from operations. For example, during 2007, the value of the U.S. dollar declined by approximately 12% as compared to the Euro. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deductions, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations. We do not expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption for the 2007 taxable year, although we anticipate that we will qualify for this exemption beginning with the 2008 taxable year. There are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to be unable to obtain the benefit of this tax exemption in future years and thereby remain subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. 16 If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for those years to a 4% United States federal income tax on our U.S.-source shipping income under Section 887 of the Code. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our stockholders. For the 2007 taxable year, we estimate that our maximum United States federal income tax liability will be $0.17 million under Section 887. Please see the section of this annual report entitled "Taxation" under item 10.E. for a more comprehensive discussion of the United States federal income tax consequences. United States tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company", which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States holders A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." United States stockholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our current and proposed method of operation, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our United States stockholders will face adverse United States tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those stockholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such stockholders, such stockholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the stockholder's holding period of our common shares. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments We are a holding company and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, our board of directors may exercise its discretion not to declare or pay dividends. We do not intend to obtain funds from other sources to pay dividends. As we expand our business, we may need to improve our operating and financial systems and will need to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels 17 Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we expand the size of our fleet and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, as we expand our fleet, we will need to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shoreside administrative and management personnel. While we have not experienced any difficulty in recruiting to date, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If we or our crewing agent encounter business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we are unable to grow our financial and operating systems or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our financial performance may be adversely affected and, among other things, the amount of cash available for distribution as dividends to our stockholders may be reduced. Because our seafaring employees are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements, failure of industry groups to renew those agreements may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our earnings Our vessel owning subsidiaries employ approximately 500 seafarers. All of the seafarers employed on the vessels in our fleet are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements that set basic standards. We cannot assure you that these agreements will prevent labor interruptions. Any labor interruptions could disrupt our operations and harm our financial performance. If Allseas is unable to perform under its vessel management agreements with us, our results of operations may be adversely affected As we expand our fleet, we will rely on Allseas to recruit suitable additional seafarers and to meet other demands imposed on Allseas. We cannot assure you that Allseas will be able to meet these demands as we expand our fleet. If Allseas’ crewing agents encounter business or financial difficulties, they may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If Allseas is unable to provide the commercial and technical management service for our vessels, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position and our ability to pay dividends may be materially adversely affected. Our operations outside the United States expose us to global risks that may interfere with the operation of our vessels We operate as an international company and primarily conduct our operations outside the United States. Changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered affect us. In the past, political conflicts, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Future hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels trade could affect our trade patterns, increase the risk of attacks on our vessels and adversely affect our operations and performance. It may not be possible for investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us We and all our subsidiaries are incorporated in jurisdictions outside the United States and substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the United States. In addition, all of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for United States investors to serve process within the United States upon us, our subsidiaries or our directors and officers or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in United States courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our or the assets of our subsidiaries are located (1) would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable United States federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares There is no guarantee that there will continue to be an active and liquid public market for you to resell our common shares in the future 18 The price of our common shares may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry; · mergers and strategic alliances in the drybulk shipping industry; · market conditions in the drybulk shipping industry; · changes in government regulation; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; · announcements concerning us or our competitors; and · the general state of the securities market. The drybulk shipping industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for common shares in this industry may be equally volatile. We are incorporated in the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. The rights of stockholders of the Marshall Islands may differ from the rights of stockholders of companies incorporated in the United States. While the BCA provides that it is to be interpreted according to the laws of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, there have been few, if any, court cases interpreting the BCA in the Marshall Islands and we cannot predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions as United States courts. Thus, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling stockholders than would stockholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction which has developed a relatively more substantial body of case law. Our chairman and chief executive officer and Innovation Holdings, which is beneficially owned by our chairman and chief executive officer and members of his family, collectively hold approximately 19.3% of our total outstanding common shares which enables considerable control over matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote Mr. Michael Bordouroglou, our President and chief executive officer, beneficially own 5,203,288 shares, or approximately 19.3% of our outstanding common shares, the vast majority of which is held indirectly through entities over which he exercise sole voting power. Please see Item 7.A. “Major Stockholders.” While Mr. Bordouroglou and the non-voting shareholders of these entities have no agreement, arrangement or understanding relating to the voting of our common shares that they own, they effectively control the outcome of matters on which our shareholder are entitled to vote, including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of these shareholders may be different from your interests. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our shareholder to replace or remove our current board of directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares 19 Several provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: · authorizing our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock without shareholder approval; · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three year terms; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of our outstanding common shares entitled to vote for the directors; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; and · restrict business combinations with interested shareholders. In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan pursuant to which our board of directors may cause the substantial dilution of any person that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. These anti-takeover provisions, including provisions of our shareholder rights plan, could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. Item 