Item 1A. Risk Factors Many factors affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control. Additional risks and uncertainties we are unaware of, or we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial conditions or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and our shareholders could lose all or part of their investment in our securities. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. See the section entitled FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS for a discussion of uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS As a property and casualty insurer, we may experience significant losses and our financial results may vary from period to period due to our exposure to catastrophic events and severe weather conditions. Our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising from catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather and fires; they can also be man-made, such as terrorist attacks (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events) or consequences of war or political instability. We may incur catastrophe losses that exceed the amount of: 1)catastrophe losses that we experienced in prior years; 2)catastrophe losses that, using third-party catastrophe modeling software, we projected could be incurred; 3)catastrophe losses that we used to develop prices for our products; or 4) our current reinsurance coverage (which would cause us to have to pay such excess losses). Catastrophes may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations during any reporting period; they may also materially harm our financial position, which in turn may materially harm our liquidity and impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all. In addition to catastrophes, the accumulation of losses from smaller weather-related events in any reporting period may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in that period. The incidence and severity of weather conditions are largely unpredictable, but the frequency and severity of property claims generally increase when severe weather conditions occur. Because we conduct the majority of our business in Florida, our financial results substantially depend on the regulatory, economic and weather conditions present in that state. Though we expanded into South Carolina during 2010, we still write more than 95% of our premium in Florida; therefore, prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, political, demographic, competitive, weather and other conditions in Florida affect our revenues and profitability. Changes in conditions could make doing business in Florida less attractive for us and would have a more pronounced effect on us than it would on other insurance companies that are more geographically diversified. Page 15UNITED INSURANCE HOLDINGS CORP. We are subject to increased exposure to certain catastrophic events such as hurricanes, as well as an increased risk of losses. The occurrence of one or more catastrophic events or other conditions affecting losses in Florida may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Because we depend on two agency groups for a large portion of our revenues, the loss of business provided by them would adversely effect our results of operations and financial condition. We utilize a large network of agency groups and individual agencies to distribute our products; however, two agency groups produce more than 40% of our gross premiums written (exclusive of any premiums assumed). During 2010, the agency group producing the most business for us generated approximately 23% of our gross premiums written, while the agency group producing the next largest amount of business for us generated approximately 21% of our gross premiums written. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided through these two producing agency groups may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Actual claims incurred may exceed our loss reserves for claims, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Loss reserves represent our estimate of ultimate unpaid losses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent our best estimate, generally utilizing actuarial expertise, historical information and projection techniques at a given reporting date. The process of estimating our loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends, legislative changes, and varying judgments and viewpoints of the individuals involved in the estimation process, among others. The impact of many of these items on our ultimate losses is difficult to estimate due to the complexity and the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of loss occurrence date and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the loss event and when it is actually reported to us). Because of the inherent uncertainty in estimating loss reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, additional liabilities resulting from one insured event, or an accumulation of insured events, may exceed our existing loss reserves and cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. Our financial results may vary from period to period based on the timing of our collection of government-levied assessments from our policy holders. Our insurance subsidiary is subject to assessments levied by various governmental and quasi-governmental entities in the states in which we operate. While we can recover these assessments from policyholders through policy surcharges, our payment of the assessments and our recoveries may not offset each other in the same reporting period in our financial statements and may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Violation(s) of certain debt covenants related to our note payable to the Florida State Board of Administration could allow the Florida SBA to call the note, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial position. With regard to our note payable to the Florida SBA, we have already incurred additional interest expense because we violated covenants related to the amount of premiums we write. As a remedy for covenant violations related to the note payable, the Florida SBA may make the note due and payable upon demand. Any demand by the Florida SBA for payment related to the note, whether immediate payment of the full balance or some other amount, is subject to approval by the state regulatory authority. Should the regulatory authority grant approval of a demand for immediate full payment, such payment could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Page 16UNITED INSURANCE HOLDINGS CORP. Our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We have complied with the provisions regarding annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 during 2009. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards as then in effect, and as supplemented or amended from time to time, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports or otherwise maintain appropriate internal controls, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price for our stock could decline. If we experience difficulties with technology, data security and/or outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively impacted. While technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present certain risks. Our business is highly dependent upon our contractors' and third-party administrators' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions such as the processing of policies and the adjusting of claims. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on these third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. These increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs. As a result, our ability to conduct our business might be adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY Because we are smaller than many of our competitors, we may lack the resources to increase or maintain our market share. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, and we believe it will remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. The principal competitive factors in our industry are price, service, commission structure and financial condition. We compete with other property and casualty insurers that write coverage in the same territories in which we write coverage; some of those insurers have greater financial resources and have a longer operating history than we do. Based on legislation passed in 2007, Citizens, an insurer supported by the State of Florida, is also authorized to compete with us. In addition, our competitors may offer products for alternative forms of risk protection. Competition could limit our ability to retain existing business or to write new business at adequate rates, and such limitation may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. State regulations limiting rate increases and requiring us to underwrite business in certain areas are beyond our control and may adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. States have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas, or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets. In addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative initiatives and court decisions which seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies. Further, our ability to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes requires approval of regulatory authorities. Our ability or willingness to manage our catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying underwriting terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment and our ability to penetrate other geographic markets, which may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We cannot predict whether and to what extent new legislation and regulations that would affect our ability to manage our exposure to catastrophic events will be adopted, the timing of adoption or the effects, if any, they would have on our ability to manage our exposure to catastrophic events.Page 17UNITED INSURANCE HOLDINGS CORP. The insurance industry is heavily regulated and further restrictive regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. The insurance industry is extensively regulated and supervised. Regulatory systems are generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not necessarily the interests of insurers, their stockholders and other investors. Regulatory systems also address authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, limitations on the types and amounts of certain investments, underwriting limitations, licensing, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurer’s business. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the NAIC and state insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. In addition, Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal or national regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to the option available to most banks. We cannot predict what effect, if any, proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the manner in which we conduct our business. Although the United States federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, changes in federal legislation, regulation and/or administrative policies in several areas, including changes in financial services regulation and federal taxation, could negatively affect the insurance industry. As part of ongoing, industry-wide investigations, we may from time to time receive subpoenas and written requests for information from government agencies and authorities at the state or federal level. If we are subpoenaed for information by government agencies and authorities, potential outcomes could include enforcement proceedings or settlements resulting in fines, penalties and/or changes in business practices that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, these investigations may result in changes to laws and regulations affecting the industry. Changes to insurance laws or regulations, or new insurance laws and regulations, may be more restrictive than current laws or regulations and could cause material adverse effects on our results of operations and our prospects for future growth. Additionally, our failure to comply with certain provisions of applicable insurance laws and regulations may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Our inability to obtain reinsurance on acceptable terms may increase our loss exposure or limit our ability to underwrite policies. We use, and we expect to continue to use, reinsurance to help manage our exposure to property and casualty risks. The availability and cost of reinsurance are each subject to prevailing market conditions beyond our control which can affect business volume and profitability. We may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance coverage, to obtain additional reinsurance coverage in the event our current reinsurance coverage is exhausted by a catastrophic event, or to obtain other reinsurance coverage in adequate amounts or at acceptable rates. Similar risks exist whether we are seeking to replace coverage terminated during the applicable coverage period or to renew or replace coverage upon its expiration. We provide no assurance that we can obtain sufficient reinsurance to cover losses resulting from one or more storms in the future, or that we can obtain such reinsurance in a timely or cost-effective manner. If we are unable to renew our expiring coverage or to obtain new reinsurance coverage, either our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we are unwilling to accept an increase in net risk exposures, we would have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite. Either increasing our net exposure to risk or reducing the amount of risk we underwrite may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. Our inability to collect from our reinsurers and the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund on our reinsurance claims could cause a material adverse affect on our results of operation and financial condition. Although reinsurers are liable to us to the extent of the reinsurance coverage we purchase, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks that we reinsure; therefore, our reinsurance agreements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. As a result, we are subject to risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. The risk could arise in two situations: i) our reinsurers may dispute some of our reinsurance claims based on contract terms, and we may ultimately Page 18UNITED INSURANCE HOLDINGS CORP. receive partial or no payment, or ii) the amount of losses that reinsurers incur related to worldwide catastrophes may materially harm the financial position of our reinsurers and cause them to default on their obligations. While we will attempt to manage these risks through underwriting guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. As a result, our exposure to credit risk may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our investments are subject to market risks that may result in reduced returns or losses. We expect investment returns to contribute to our overall profitability. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates or in the fixed-maturity, equity or alternative-investment markets may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in the general interest rate environment will affect our returns on, and the fair value of, our fixed maturities and short-term investments. A decline in interest rates reduces the returns available on new investments, thereby negatively impacting our net investment income. Conversely, rising interest rates reduce the fair value of existing fixed maturities. In addition, defaults under, or impairments of, any of these investments as a result of financial problems with the issuer and, where applicable, its guarantor of the investment could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. We may decide to invest a portion of our assets in equity securities or other investments, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed maturities. General economic conditions, stock market conditions and many other factors beyond our control can adversely affect the fair value of our equity securities or other investments, and could adversely affect the realization of net investment income. As a result of these factors, we may not realize an adequate return on our investments, we may incur losses on sales of our investments and we may be required to write down the value of our investments, which could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. The fair value of our investment portfolio is also subject to valuation uncertainties. The valuation of investments is more subjective when the markets are illiquid and may increase the risk that the estimated fair value of our investment portfolio is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions would occur. Our portfolio may benefit from certain tax laws, including, but not limited to, those governing dividends-received deductions and tax credits. Federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or eliminate some or all of these tax advantages and could adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio. This result could occur in the context of deficit reduction or various types of fundamental tax reform. The property and casualty insurance industry is historically cyclical and the pricing and terms for our products may decline, which would adversely affect our profitability. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has been cyclical, characterized by periods of severe price competition and excess underwriting capacity, or soft markets, followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity, or hard markets. We cannot predict how long any given hard or soft market will last. Downturns in the property and casualty market may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues are uncertain and may increase our loss exposure under the policies that we underwrite. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: • adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures in home repair costs; • judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; and Page 19UNITED INSURANCE HOLDINGS CORP. • plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class-action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices. In some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent to us for some time after our issuance of the affected insurance policies. As a result, we may not know the full extent of liability under insurance policies we issue for many years after the policies are issued. It is very difficult for us to predict the effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues that may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. A downgrade in our financial strength rating could adversely impact our business volume and our ability to access additional debt or equity financing. Financial strength ratings have become increasingly important to an insurer’s competitive position. Rating agencies review their ratings periodically, and our current ratings may not be maintained in the future. A downgrade in our rating could negatively impact our business volumes, as it is possible demand for our products in certain markets may be reduced or our ratings could fall below minimum levels required to maintain existing business. Additionally, we may find it more difficult to access the capital markets and we may incur higher borrowing costs. If significant losses, such as those resulting from one or more major catastrophes, or significant reserve additions were to cause our capital position to deteriorate significantly, or if one or more rating agencies substantially increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the future to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. For example, a trend of more frequent and severe weather-related catastrophes may lead rating agencies to substantially increase their capital requirements. We cannot guarantee that UPC will maintain its current A rating by Demotech. Any downgrade of this rating could reduce our ability to retain and attract policyholders and agents and our ability to compete, which may cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. RISKS RELATED TO INVESTING IN UNITED’S COMMON STOCK OR WARRANTS Trading of our common stock and warrants is limited, which may make it difficult for you to sell these securities at times and at prices that you find appropriate. Investors trade our common stock or warrants via the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board, which provides less liquidity than national securities exchanges. In addition to the already less liquid market, trading in our common stock or warrants has been extremely limited, further reducing their liquidity. The lack of liquidity in our common stock and warrants results not only from limited trading, but also from delays in the timing of transactions and a dearth in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of United. As a result, you may obtain lower prices for our common stock, warrants and units than you might otherwise obtain in more liquid markets and you may experience a larger spread between the bid and ask prices for our common stock or warrants. In addition, requirements imposed by the SEC on brokers engaging in “penny stock” transactions may further reduce the market liquidity of our securities. Dividend payments on our common stock in the future is uncertain. We have paid dividends on our common stock in the past; however, we provide no assurance or guarantee that we will continue to pay dividends in the future. Therefore, investors who purchase common stock and/or convert their warrants into common stock may only realize a return on their investment if the value of our common stock appreciates. The declaration and payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our profits and financial requirements and other factors, including legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends, general business conditions and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Page 20UNITED INSURANCE HOLDINGS CORP. Our warrant holders cannot exercise their warrants unless we have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares of common stock underlying the warrants. Holders of our warrants can exercise the warrants only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the shares of our common stock underlying the warrants (federal registration) is then effective and (ii) such shares of common stock are registered for sale, or exempt from registration, under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various warrant holders reside (state registration). We cannot assure that our best efforts to maintain a current federal registration will be successful, nor can we assure that our reasonable efforts to maintain a current state registration, to the extent an exemption is not available, will be successful; therefore, the value of the warrants may be greatly reduced or the warrants could expire unexercised. Warrant holders residing in states in which no current state registration exists, and in which there is no exemption from registration, will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. The substantial ownership of our common stock by our officers and directors allows them to exert significant control over matters submitted to our shareholders. Our officers and directors beneficially own approximately 40% of UIHC at December 31, 2010. As a result, they can exert significant influence over the following: • the nomination, election and removal of our Board of Directors; • the adoption of amendments to our charter documents; • management and policies; and • the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Our officers’ and directors’ interests may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock and our officers and directors may take action affecting us with which other stockholders may disagree. Provisions in our charter documents and state law may make it harder for others to obtain control of us even though some shareholders might consider such a development to be favorable. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals our stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. Our Board of Directors is divided into two classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of two years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. At a given annual meeting, only a portion of our Board of Directors may be considered for election. Since our “staggered board” may prevent our stockholders from replacing a majority of our Board of Directors at certain annual meetings, it may entrench our management and discourage unsolicited stockholder proposals that may be in the best interests of our stockholders. Moreover, our Board of Directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue a new series of preferred stock. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control in our company. Together these provisions may make the removal of our management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicablePage 21UNITED INSURANCE HOLDINGS CORP. 