D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to us, the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and ownership of our common shares. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for dividends or the trading price of our common shares. Industry Specific Risk Factors The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical and volatile, with charter hire rates and profitability currently at depressed levels, and the recent global economic recession has resulted in decreased demand for drybulk shipping, which has and may continue to negatively impact our operations. The drybulk shipping industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates and profitability. The degree of charter hire rate volatility among different types of drybulk carriers varies widely; however, the continued downturn in the drybulk charter market has severely affected the entire drybulk shipping industry and charter hire rates for drybulk vessels have declined significantly from historically high levels in 2008. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply of and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply of and demand for drybulk cargoes carried internationally at sea, including coal, iron ore, grain and minerals. Because the factors affecting the supply of and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew existing charters upon their expiration or termination, all of which are scheduled to expire in 2014, assuming the earliest redelivery dates, at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations or at all. 3 Factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: · supply of and demand for energy resources, commodities and drybulk cargoes; · changes in the exploration or production of energy resources commodities, and drybulk cargoes; · the location of regional and global exploration, production and manufacturing facilities; · the location of consuming regions for energy resources, commodities and drybulk cargoes; · the globalization of production and manufacturing; · global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts and terrorist activities, embargoes and strikes; · developments in international trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including the distance cargo is transported by sea; · environmental and other regulatory developments; · currency exchange rates; and · weather. The factors that could influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · port and canal congestion; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · vessel casualties; and · the number of vessels that are out of service, namely those that are laid-up, dry-docked, awaiting repairs or otherwise not available for hire. In addition to the prevailing and anticipated freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing drybulk fleet in the market and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors influencing the supply of and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control, and we may not be able to correctly assess the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk carriers will be dependent upon economic growth in the world's economies, including China and India, seasonal and regional changes in demand, changes in the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet and the sources and supply of drybulk cargoes to be transported by sea. Given the large number of new drybulk carriers currently on order with the shipyards, the capacity of the global drybulk carrier fleet seems likely to increase and there can be no assurance that economic growth will resume or continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 4 The recent downturn in the drybulk carrier charter market has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and profitability, and may adversely affect our ability to comply with our loan covenants. The recent downturn in the drybulk charter market, from which we derive our revenues, has severely affected the entire drybulk shipping industry and our business. The Baltic Dry Index, or the BDI, an index published by the Baltic Exchange Limited of shipping rates for key drybulk routes, which has long been viewed as the main benchmark to monitor the movements of the drybulk vessel charter market and the performance of the entire drybulk shipping market, declined 94% from a peak of 11,793 in May 2008 to a low of 663 in December 2008 and has remained volatile since then. The BDI recorded a 25-year record low of 647 in February 2012. During 2013, the BDI remained volatile, ranging from a low of 698 in January to a high of 2,337 in December, before ending the year at 2,277. The BDI has since decreased to 1,496 as of March 26, 2014. The downturn and volatility in drybulk charter rates has had a number of adverse consequences for drybulk shipping, including, among other things: · an absence of financing for vessels; · no active second-hand market for the sale of vessels; · extremely low charter rates, particularly for vessels employed in the spot market; · widespread loan covenant defaults in the drybulk shipping industry; and · declaration of bankruptcy by some operators and ship owners as well as charterers. The occurrence of one or more of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The decline and volatility in charter rates in the drybulk market also affects the value of our drybulk vessels, which follows the trends of drybulk charter rates, and earnings on our charters, and similarly, affects our cash flows, liquidity and ability to comply with the financial and security coverage ratio covenants contained in our loan and credit facilities. There can be no assurance as to how long charter rates and vessel values will remain at their current levels and the market could decline. If charter rates and vessel values in the drybulk market decline and remain at low levels for any significant period in 2014, this will have an adverse effect on our revenues, profitability, cash flows and our ability to maintain compliance with the financial and security coverage ratio covenants contained in our loan and credit facilities. If economic conditions throughout the world do not improve, it will impede our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common shares to further decline. Negative trends in the global economy that emerged in 2008 continue to adversely affect global economic conditions. In addition, the world economy continues to face a number of challenges, including uncertainty related to the continuing discussions in the United States regarding the federal debt ceiling and turmoil and hostilities in the Middle East, North Africa and other geographic areas and countries and continuing economic weakness in the European Union. The downturn in the global economy has caused, and may continue to cause, a decrease in worldwide demand for certain goods and, thus, shipping. While market conditions have improved since 2008, continuing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, have had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, have caused the price of our common shares to decline and could cause the price of our common shares to decline further. 5 The economies of the United States, the European Union and other parts of the world continue to experience relatively slow growth or remain in recession and exhibit weak economic trends. Over the past five years, credit markets in the United States and Europe have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity. While credit conditions are improving, global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. Since 2008, lending by financial institutions worldwide remains at lower levels compared to the period preceding 2008. As of December 31, 2013, we had total outstanding indebtedness of $180.1 million (of principal balance) under our credit facilities. Continued economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region, especially in Japan and China, may exacerbate the effect on us of the recent slowdown in the rest of the world. Before the global economic financial crisis that began in 2008, China had one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, or GDP, which had a significant impact on shipping demand. The growth rate of China's GDP is estimated to remain around 7.7%, approximately the same growth rate as for the year ended December 31, 2013, remaining below pre-2008 levels. China has imposed measures to restrain lending, which may further contribute to a slowdown in its economic growth. China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region may continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our results of operations and ability to grow our fleet would be impeded by a continuing or worsening economic downturn in any of these countries. The inability of countries to refinance their debts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. As a result of the credit crisis in Europe, in particular in Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, the European Commission created the European Financial Stability Facility, or the EFSF, and the European Financial Stability Mechanism, or the EFSM, to provide funding to Eurozone countries in financial difficulties that seek such support. In March 2011, the European Council agreed on the need for Eurozone countries to establish a permanent stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, or the ESM, which was established on September 27, 2012, to assume the role of the EFSF and the EFSM in providing external financial assistance to Eurozone countries. Despite these measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations and the overall stability of the Euro. Potential adverse developments in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for drybulk cargoes and for our services. Market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. The current state of global financial markets and current economic conditions may adversely impact our ability to obtain additional financing or refinance our existing loan and credit facilities on acceptable terms which may hinder or prevent us from expanding our business. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, volatile. Recently, the debt and equity capital markets have been severely distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the continuing weak economic conditions, have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain additional financing. The current state of global financial markets and current economic conditions might adversely impact our ability to issue additional equity at prices which will not be dilutive to our existing shareholders or preclude us from issuing equity at all. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at all or on terms similar to current debt and reduced, and in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available if needed and to the extent required, or that we will be able to refinance our existing loan and credit facilities, on acceptable terms or at all. If additional financing or refinancing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be unable to enhance our existing business, complete additional vessel acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. 6 A decrease in the level of China's export of goods or an increase in trade protectionism could have a material adverse impact on our charterers' business and, in turn, could cause a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. China exports considerably more goods than it imports. Our vessels may be deployed on routes involving trade in and out of emerging markets, and our charterers' shipping and business revenue may be derived from the shipment of goods from the Asia Pacific region to various overseas export markets including the United States and Europe. Any reduction in or hindrance to the output of China-based exporters could have a material adverse effect on the growth rate of China's exports and on our charterers' business. For instance, the government of China has recently implemented economic policies aimed at increasing domestic consumption of Chinese-made goods. This may have the effect of reducing the supply of goods available for export and may, in turn, result in a decrease of demand for drybulk shipping. Additionally, though in China there is an increasing level of autonomy and a gradual shift in emphasis to a "market economy" and enterprise reform, many of the reforms, particularly some limited price reforms that result in the prices for certain commodities being principally determined by market forces, are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition. The level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government. Our operations expose us to the risk that increased trade protectionism will adversely affect our business. If the global economic recovery is undermined by downside risks and the recent economic downturn is prolonged, governments may turn to trade barriers to protect their domestic industries against foreign imports, thereby depressing the demand for shipping. Specifically, increasing trade protectionism in the markets that our charterers serve has caused and may continue to cause an increase in: (i) the cost of goods exported from China, (ii) the length of time required to deliver goods from China and (iii) the risks associated with exporting goods from China, as well as a decrease in the quantity of goods to be shipped. Any increased trade barriers or restrictions on trade, especially trade with China, would have an adverse impact on our charterers' business, operating results and financial condition and could thereby affect their ability to make timely charter hire payments to us and to renew and increase the number of their time charters with us. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. World events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as those in New York on September 11, 2001, in London on July 7, 2005, and in Mumbai on November 26, 2008, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks around the world, continues to cause uncertainty in the world's financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Continuing conflicts and recent developments in the Middle East, including Egypt, and North Africa, and the presence of U.S. or other armed forces in the Middle East, may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, such as the attack on the MT Limburg, a vessel unaffiliated with us, in October 2002, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. 7 In the highly competitive international shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources, and as a result, we may be unable to employ our vessels profitably, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial conditions, liquidity and results of operations. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we have. Competition for the transportation of drybulk cargo is intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, many of our competitors with greater resources and access to capital than we have, could enter the drybulk shipping industry and operate larger fleets than we do through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer lower charter rates and higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. If this were to occur, we may be unable to retain or attract new charterers on attractive terms or at all, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean, off the coast of West Africa and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Although the frequency of sea piracy worldwide decreased during 2013 to its lowest level since 2006, sea piracy incidents continue to occur, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia and increasingly in the Gulf of Guinea, with drybulk vessels and tankers particularly vulnerable to such attacks. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized as "war risk" zones by insurers, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. Furthermore, while we believe the charterer remains liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not "on-hire" for a certain number of days and is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability, of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our vessels call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, our reputation and the market for our common shares could be adversely affected. From time to time on our charterers' instructions, our vessels may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or CISADA, amended the Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. In addition, in 2012, President Obama signed Executive Order 13608 which prohibits foreign persons from violating or attempting to violate, or causing a violation of any sanctions in effect against Iran or facilitating any deceptive transactions for or on behalf of any person subject to U.S. sanctions. Any persons found to be in violation of Executive Order 13608 will be deemed a foreign sanctions evader and will be banned from all contacts with the United States, including conducting business in U.S. dollars. Also in 2012, President Obama signed into law the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or the Iran Threat Reduction Act, which created new sanctions and strengthened existing sanctions. Among other things, the Iran Threat Reduction Act intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure or technology to Iran's petroleum or petrochemical sector. The Iran Threat Reduction Act also includes a provision requiring the President of the United States to impose five or more sanctions from Section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, on a person the President determines is a controlling beneficial owner of, or otherwise owns, operates, or controls or insures a vessel that was used to transport crude oil from Iran to another country and (1) if the person is a controlling beneficial owner of the vessel, the person had actual knowledge the vessel was so used or (2) if the person otherwise owns, operates, or controls, or insures the vessel, the person knew or should have known the vessel was so used. Such a person could be subject to a variety of sanctions, including exclusion from U.S. capital markets, exclusion from financial transactions subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and exclusion of that person's vessels from U.S. ports for up to two years. 8 On November 24, 2013, the P5+1 (the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Russia and China) entered into an interim agreement with Iran entitled the "Joint Plan of Action," or the JPOA. Under the JPOA it was agreed that, in exchange for Iran taking certain voluntary measures to ensure that its nuclear program is used only for peaceful purposes, the U.S. and EU would voluntarily suspend certain sanctions for a period of six months. On January 20, 2014, the U.S. and E.U. indicated that they would begin implementing the temporary relief measures provided for under the JPOA. These measures include, among other things, the suspension of certain sanctions on the Iranian petrochemicals, precious metals, and automotive industries from January 20, 2014 until July 20, 2014. Although we believe that we have been in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines, penalties or other sanctions that could severely impact our ability to access U.S. capital markets and conduct our business, and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us. In addition, certain institutional investors may have investment policies or restrictions that prevent them from holding securities of companies that have contracts with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The determination by these investors not to invest in, or to divest from, our common shares may adversely affect the price at which our common shares trade. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. In addition, our reputation and the market for our securities may be adversely affected if we engage in certain other activities, such as entering into charters with individuals or entities in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargo laws that are not controlled by the governments of those countries, or engaging in operations associated with those countries pursuant to contracts with third parties that are unrelated to those countries or entities controlled by their governments. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. The container shipping industry is cyclical and volatile and the recent global economic recession has resulted in decreased demand for container shipping, which, together with an over-supply of containership capacity, may negatively impact any future containership operations we may have. As of the date of this annual report, we have a contract for the construction of one 4,800 TEU newbuilding containership, the C/V Box King, that is scheduled to be delivered to us during the second quarter of 2014. We have entered into an agreement with Box Ships Inc. (NYSE: TEU), or Box Ships, a related party entity, pursuant to which we have granted Box Ships the option to acquire our newbuilding containership by way of a novation of the relevant construction contract from us at any time prior to the applicable vessel's delivery to us, or purchase of such vessel at any time after its delivery to us, so long as the vessel is owned by us at such time. If Box Ships does not exercise its option to acquire our containership under construction, we will be permitted to charter the vessel on period charters commencing not more than 45 days after its delivery to us and our investment in the containership industry will generally depend on continued growth in world and regional demand for container shipping services. The recent global economic slowdown has resulted in decreased demand for container shipping and a related decrease in charter rates. The ocean-going container shipping industry is both cyclical and volatile in terms of charter hire rates and profitability. Containership charter rates peaked in 2005 and generally stayed strong until the middle of 2008, when the effects of the recent economic crisis began to affect global container trade. Charter rates have fallen significantly since the middle of 2008 and remain well below long-term averages and could further decline in the near term. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply and demand for ship capacity and changes in the supply and demand for the major products internationally transported by containerships. The containership market is typically stronger in the spring and autumn in anticipation of increased consumption of consumer products during the holiday and peak seasons. The factors affecting the supply and demand for containerships and supply and demand for products shipped in containers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. 9 Our ability to employ our newbuilding containership, if Box Ships does not exercise its option to acquire the vessel within 45 days after its delivery to us, will depend upon, among other things, the prevailing state of the containership market when the vessel are available for employment, which can be affected by consumer demand for products shipped in containers. If the containership market is in a period of sustained depression when we take delivery of the containership, we may be unable to operate the vessel profitably. In addition, the size of the containership orderbook has remained at high levels in the last 12 months and newbuilding containerships with an aggregate capacity of 3.8 million TEU were on order, representing 22% of the total fleet capacity, as of March 2014. The size of the orderbook is large relative to historical levels and will result in the increase in the size of the world containership fleet over the next few years. An over-supply of containership capacity, particularly in conjunction with a reduced level of demand for container shipping, may result in a further reduction of charter rates. If the containership market is in a period of sustained depression when we take delivery of our newbuilding containership and the containership global fleet capacity increases due to the delivery of newbuildings or further redeployment of previously idle vessels, we may be unable to charter the containership upon its delivery to us, which is scheduled for the second quarter of 2014, if Box Ships does not exercise its option to acquire the vessel, at rates suitable to operate the vessel profitably or at all. An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity may lead to a further reduction in charter rates, which may limit our ability to operate our vessels profitably. The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing in large part as a result of the delivery of numerous newbuilding orders over the last few years, and the number of drybulk carriers on order is near historic highs. These newbuildings were delivered in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2006 and continued to be delivered in significant numbers through 2013. As of March 2014, newbuilding orders had been placed for an aggregate of more than 21% of the current global drybulk fleet, with deliveries expected during the next three years. An over-supply of drybulk carrier capacity, particularly in conjunction with the currently reduced level of demand for drybulk shipping, may result in a further reduction of charter hire rates or prolong the period during which low charter hire rates prevail. If the current low charter rate environment persists or worsens and the drybulk global fleet capacity increases due to the delivery of newbuildings or further redeployment of previously idle vessels, we may not be able to recharter our drybulk vessels upon the expiration or termination of our current charters, all of which are scheduled to expire in 2014, assuming the earliest redelivery dates, or charter our drybulk newbuilding vessels that are scheduled to be delivered to us from the second quarter of 2014 through the second quarter of 2015 for which we have not yet arranged employment, at rates suitable to meet our obligations or at all. The market value of our vessels has declined and may further decline, which could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow and has triggered and could in the future trigger breaches of certain financial and security coverage ratio covenants contained in our current and future credit facilities and we may incur a loss if we sell vessels following a decline in their market value. The fair market value of our vessels has generally experienced high volatility and has declined significantly. The fair market value of our vessels may continue to fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including: · prevailing level of charter rates; 10 · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry, including competition from other shipping companies; · types, sizes and ages of vessels; · supply of and demand for vessels; · other modes of transportation; · cost of newbuildings; · governmental or other regulations; · the need to upgrade secondhand and previously owned vessels as a result of charterer requirements, technological advances in vessel design or equipment or otherwise; and · competition from other shipping companies and the availability of other modes of transportation. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. If the fair market value of our vessels declines further, we may not be in compliance with certain covenants contained in our loan and credit facilities and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. If we are not able to comply with the covenants in our loan and credit facilities, and are unable to remedy the relevant breach, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our vessels. Furthermore, if we sell any of our owned vessels at a time when prices are depressed, our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be adversely affected. Moreover, if we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment adjustment to our financial statements, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount in our financial statements, resulting in a loss and a reduction in earnings. In addition, if vessel values persist or decline further, we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements which could adversely affect our financial results. Charter rates are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we can pay dividends, if any, in the future. Most of our vessels are currently employed on fixed rate time charters or voyage charters with expirations ranging from April 2014 to September 2014. Our vessels operate in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. This seasonality may result in volatility in our operating results to the extent that we enter into new charter agreements, renew existing agreements during a time when charter rates are weaker or operate our vessels on the spot market, which could affect the amount of dividends, if any, that we pay to our shareholders from quarter to quarter. The drybulk carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns during these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. While this seasonality has not materially affected our operating results, it could materially affect our operating results and cash available for distribution to our shareholders as dividends, if any, in the future. Rising fuel, or bunker prices, may adversely affect profits. While we generally will not bear the cost of fuel, or bunkers, for vessels operating on time charters, fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability at the time of charter negotiation. Fuel is also a significant, if not the largest, expense in our shipping operations when vessels are under voyage charter. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. 11 Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be certified as being "in class" by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Every vessel is also required to be dry-docked every two and a half to five years for inspection of its underwater parts. Compliance with the above requirements may result in significant expense. If any vessel does not maintain its class or fails any annual, intermediate or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable and uninsurable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These regulations include, but are not limited to, European Union Regulations, U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, the U.S. Clean Air Act, the U.S. Clean Water Act and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002, and regulations of the International Maritime Organization, or the IMO, including the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975, the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974 and the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Furthermore, the 2010 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or other events, may result in further regulation of the shipping industry, including modifications to statutory liability schemes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability, remediation costs and natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. 12 Risks associated with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues and stock price. The operation of ocean-going vessels carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: · marine disaster; · environmental accidents; · cargo and property losses or damage; · business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and · piracy. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at dry-docking facilities is sometimes limited and not all dry-docking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable dry-docking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a dry-docking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant dry-docking facilities would decrease our earnings. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may also harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in our vessels being denied access to, or detained in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations' International Maritime Organization's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires ship owners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. If we fail to comply with the ISM Code, we may be subject to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for our affected vessels and such failure may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Each of the vessels that has been delivered to us is ISM Code-certified. However, if we are subject to increased liability for non-compliance or if our insurance coverage is adversely impacted as a result of non-compliance, it may negatively affect our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. If any of our vessels are denied access to, or are detained in, certain ports, our revenues may be adversely impacted. In addition, vessel classification societies also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. In complying with current and future environmental requirements, vessel owners and operators may also incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance. 13 The operation of our vessels is also affected by other government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates, and financial assurances with respect to our operations. Increased inspection procedures, tighter import and export controls and new security regulations could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin, destination and trans-shipment points. These security procedures can result in cargo seizure, delays in the loading, offloading, trans-shipment or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks, which could adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the vessel can be an operational risk. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold) and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels' holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessel's bulkheads leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Maritime claimants could arrest one or more of our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by "arresting" or "attaching" a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. For example, in November 2012, one of our vessels was arrested due to a prior sub-charterer's unsettled bunkering expenses. The respective vessel was detained for approximately 19 days and was released in December 2012, after the issuance of a letter of guarantee from Allseas Marine S.A., or Allseas or our Manager, a company controlled by our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Bodouroglou, that is responsible for the commercial and technical management functions for our fleet and provides the services of our executive officers, and continued its employment. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could attempt to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. 14 Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and reduce the amount of cash we have available for distribution as dividends, if any, to our shareholders. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could result in fines, criminal penalties and an adverse effect on our business. We may operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics which is consistent and in full compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, or the FCPA. We are subject, however, to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take actions determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. Company Specific Risk Factors We have not been in compliance with certain of the financial and other covenants contained in certain of our loan and credit facilities, for which we have obtained waivers or amendments or refinanced the affected debt. If we are not in compliance with the original covenants when our existing waivers expire and if we are not successful in obtaining additional waivers or amendments or refinancing the affected debt, our lenders may declare an event of default and accelerate our outstanding indebtedness, which would impact our ability to continue to conduct our business. Our loan and credit facilities, which are secured by mortgages on our vessels, require us to maintain specified financial ratios mainly to ensure that the market value of the mortgaged vessels under the applicable credit facility, as determined in accordance with the terms of that agreement, does not fall below a certain percentage of the outstanding amount of the loan, which we refer to as a security cover ratio, and to satisfy certain other financial covenants. In general, these other financial covenants require us to maintain (i) minimum liquidity; (ii) a maximum leverage ratio; (iii) a minimum interest coverage ratio; (iv) a minimum market adjusted net worth; (v) a minimum debt service coverage ratio; and (vi) a minimum working capital. A violation of the security cover ratio, unless cured as set forth under the applicable loan or credit facility, or a violation of any of the financial covenants contained in our loan and credit facilities constitutes an event of default under our loan and credit facilities, which, unless waived or modified by our lenders, provides our lenders with the right to require us to post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, increase our interest payments, pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet and accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens on our vessels, or may cause us to reclassify our indebtedness as current liabilities, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. As a result of intense fluctuations in the drybulk charter market and the related fluctuation in vessel values, we were not in compliance with certain financial and security cover ratio covenants contained in certain of our loan and credit facilities in the past, and as such, we obtained waivers of the relevant covenant breaches, entered into amendments to the relevant facilities or refinanced the affected debt and deposited additional security to cure the shortfall in the security cover required to be maintained under the relevant facilities. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Loan and Credit Facilities." 15 We may not be successful in obtaining additional waivers of covenant breaches or amendments to covenants contained in our loan and credit facilities or refinancing the affected debt if we are not in compliance with the original covenants in our loan and credit facilities when our existing waivers expire. Accordingly, our lenders could accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens on our vessels, which would impair our ability to conduct our business and continue as a going concern. Furthermore, all of our loan and credit facilities contain a cross-default provision that may be triggered by a default under one of our other loan or credit facilities. A cross-default provision means that a default on one loan would result in a default on all of our other loans. Because of the presence of cross default provisions in all of our loan and credit facilities, the refusal of any one lender to grant or extend a waiver could result in all of our indebtedness being accelerated even if our other lenders have waived covenant defaults under the respective loan and credit facilities. If our outstanding indebtedness, which amounted to $180.1 million as of December 31, 2013, is accelerated in full or in part, in the current financing environment we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and we could lose our vessels if our lenders foreclose their liens, which would adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Moreover, any refinancing or additional financing may be more expensive and carry more onerous terms than those in our existing loan and credit facilities. In addition, if we find it necessary to sell our vessels at a time when vessel prices are low, we will recognize losses and a reduction in our earnings, which could affect our ability to raise additional capital necessary for us to comply with our loan and credit facilities. Our loan and credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities and if we receive additional waivers and/or amendments to our loan and credit facilities, our lenders may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us and/or modify the terms of our existing loan and credit facilities. Our loan and credit facilities impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · create liens on our assets; · sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; · make investments; · engage in mergers or acquisitions; · pay dividends; · make capital expenditures; · compete effectively to the extent our competitors are subject to less onerous financial restrictions; · adjust and alter existing charters; · change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel; and · sell our vessels. In addition, under these covenants, we are required to maintain minimum liquidity as discussed in Note 8 in our consolidated financial statements included at the end of this annual report. 16 Therefore, our discretion is limited because we may need to obtain consent from our lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions and commercial actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and a denial of permission may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. For example, under one of loan agreements, we are prohibited from paying dividends until the maturity of the loan in July 2015. In addition, certain of our other loan and credit facilities contain additional restrictions and impose maximum limits on the per share dividend that we may pay per annum and require that we maintain certain minimum liquidity following the payment of any dividends. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders' consent when needed. In addition to the above restrictions, our lenders may require the payment of additional fees, require prepayment of a portion of our indebtedness to them, accelerate the amortization schedule for our indebtedness and increase the interest rates they charge us on our outstanding indebtedness. These potential restrictions and requirements may further limit our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future to you, finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. Moreover, in connection with any additional waivers of or amendments to our loan and credit facilities that we obtain, our lenders may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us or modify the terms of our existing loan and credit facilities. These restrictions may further restrict our ability to, among other things, pay dividends, make capital expenditures or incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our loan and credit facilities may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions and other factors beyond our control. Any default under our loan and credit facilities that is not waived or amended by the required lenders could prevent us from paying dividends in the future. If we are unable to repay indebtedness, the lenders under our loan and credit facilities could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. In such case, we may be unable to repay the amounts due under our loan and credit facilities. This could have serious consequences for our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. Our ability to comply with these covenants in future periods will also depend substantially on the value of our assets, the rates we earn under our charters, our ability to obtain charters, our success at keeping our costs low and our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy. Any future credit agreement or amendment or debt instrument may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Certain existing stockholders, who hold approximately 27.8% of our outstanding common shares, may have the power to exert control over us, which may limit your ability to influence our actions. As of the date of this annual report, Mr. Michael Bodouroglou, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned a total of 6,856,064 common shares, or approximately 27.8% of our outstanding common shares, all of which are held indirectly through Innovation Holdings S.A., or Innovation Holdings, a company beneficially owned and controlled by Mr. Bodouroglou, and Loretto Finance Inc., or Loretto, a wholly owned subsidiary of Allseas, that is controlled by Mr. Bodouroglou and members of his family. Due to the number of shares he owns, Mr. Bodouroglou has the power to exert considerable influence over our actions and to effectively control the outcome of matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of our directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of Mr. Bodouroglou may be different from your interests. We will need to procure significant additional financing in order to complete the construction of our newbuilding vessels, which may be difficult to obtain on acceptable terms or at all. As of the date of this annual report, our newbuilding program was comprised of one 4,800 TEU containership, the C/V Box King, under construction at Zhejiang Ouhua Shipbuilding, or Ouhua, scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2014, four Ultramax drybulk carriers under construction at Yangzhou Dayang Shipbuilding Co. Ltd., or Dayang, scheduled for delivery between the second quarter of 2014 and the second quarter of 2015, and three Kamsarmax drybulk carriers under construction at Jiangsu Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Co., or Yangzijiang, scheduled for delivery between the second and fourth quarter of 2015. The estimated total contractual cost of our newbuilding vessels amounted to $256.2 million, of which an aggregate of $178.4 million was outstanding as of the date of this annual report and is due upon delivery of the vessels. 17 In order to complete the construction of our newbuilding program, we will need to procure significant additional financing. On May 17, 2013, we signed an agreement with China Development Bank, or CDB, for a $69.0 million to partially finance two 4,800 TEU containerships under construction that were expected to be delivered in the second quarter of 2014. Following the cancellation of one of the two 4,800 TEU containership newbuilding contracts as discussed in Note 4 in our consolidated financial statements included at the end of this annual report, we are currently in discussions with CDB to amend the terms of the credit facility accordingly. In addition, we have entered into a commitment with HSH Nordbank AG, subject to the execution of definitive documentation, to partially finance our first two Ultramax newbuilding drybulk carriers, the Hull no. DY152 and the Hull no. DY153. For each of the two Ultramax vessels, HSH Nordbank AG agreed to finance the lower of $17.2 million or 65% of the vessels' market value upon their delivery. We have not yet secured financing for our remaining two Ultramax drybulk newbuildings and our three Kamsarmax drybulk newbuildings. If for any reason we fail to take delivery of the newbuilding vessels described above, we would be prevented from realizing potential revenues from these vessels, we may be required to forego deposits on construction, which amounted to an aggregate of $77.8 million as of the date of this annual report, and we may incur additional costs and liability to the shipyard under the construction contracts. In addition, the actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require in order to meet our capital commitments, or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher level than the anticipated cost, may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy, including our ability to take delivery of our vessels under construction. Should additional financing not be available on favorable terms or at all, this would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend upon a few charterers for a significant part of our revenues and the failure of one or more of these charterers to meet their obligations under our time charter agreements could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business and ability to comply with covenants in our loan and credit facilities. We derive a significant part of our charter hire from a small number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we derived 47% of our voyage revenues from two charterers, as presented in our audited consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this annual report. Most of our vessels are currently employed on fixed rate time charters or voyage charters with expirations ranging from April 2014 to September 2014. If one or more of these charterers is unable to perform under one or more charters with us, or if a charterer exercises certain rights it may have to terminate the charter before its scheduled termination date, we could suffer a loss of revenues that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution as dividends to our shareholders. The ability and willingness of each of our charterers to perform its obligations under a time charter agreement with us depends on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the drybulk shipping industry, the overall financial condition of the charterer, the loss of the relevant vessel, prolonged off-hire periods or the seizure of the relevant vessel for more than a specified number of days. In addition, charterers are sensitive to the commodity markets and may be impacted by market forces affecting commodities, such as iron ore, coal, grain, and other minor bulks. Moreover, in depressed market conditions, there have been reports of charterers, including some of our former charter counterparties as discussed below, renegotiating their charters or defaulting on their obligations under charters, and our customers may fail to pay charter hire or attempt to renegotiate charter rates. On March 9, 2011, we received a notice of termination, effective immediately, from Korea Line Corporation, or KLC, a South Korean shipping company that filed a petition for rehabilitation in January 2011, relating to our time charter with KLC for the M/V Pearl Seas, which was originally scheduled to expire no earlier than in August 2011. Under the charter, we were entitled to a gross daily rate of $37,300, with an optional extension of up to an additional 26 to 28 months at the charterers' option at a gross daily rate of $32,500, plus a 50% profit share above that level. Revenues from our charter with KLC were 16.2% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. We received all charter hire due on the vessel until January 29, 2011. On September 15, 2011, we entered into a settlement agreement with KLC in relation to the early termination of the respective time charter, while in March 2013, the Seoul Central District Court approved an amended KLC rehabilitation plan, pursuant to which we received an aggregate of $0.4 million in cash and 65,896 shares of KLC. For more information on our settlement agreement with KLC, refer to Note 16 in our consolidated financial statements included at the end of this annual report. 18 In addition, as of December 31, 2011, the M/V Friendly Seas was chartered to Deiulemar Compagnia Di Navigazione S.P.A., or Deiulemar, at a gross daily rate of $33,750 and a remaining minimum duration of 27 months. Deiulemar failed to provide payment due since January 5, 2012 and failed to provide the M/V Friendly Seas with voyage instructions. Accordingly, we provided Deiulemar with written notice of termination of the charter and took delivery of the vessel. Although we are still pursuing any claims we may have against Deiulemar due to its failure to meet its obligations under the time charter agreement, it is unlikely that we will recover the amounts due to us under the charter. As with the M/V Pearl Seas and the M/V Friendly Seas, the time charters on which we deploy a number of our other vessels provide for charter rates that are above current market rates. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under its charter with us, it may be difficult to secure substitute employment for such vessel, and any new charter arrangements we secure in the spot market or on time charters would be at significantly lower rates, given the currently decreased drybulk carrier charter rate levels. If our charterers fail to meet their obligations to us or attempt to renegotiate our charter agreements, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future, and compliance with covenants in our loan and credit facilities, certain of which specifically require the maintenance of minimum charter rate levels and consider the termination of a charter to be an event of default. We may be required to recognize additional losses relating to our investment in KLC if the value of KLC's shares declines further. As of September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2013, we considered the decline in the fair value of the 65,896 shares of KLC owned by us as other than temporary and therefore, the investment was impaired and an aggregate loss of $1.9 million was recorded. If the fair value of KLC's shares declines further due to other than temporary reasons, we will be required to recognize additional losses. A drop in spot charter rates may provide an incentive for some charterers to default on their charters. When we enter into a time charter, charter rates under that charter are fixed for the term of the charter. Most of our vessels are currently employed on fixed rate time charters or voyage charters with expirations ranging from April 2014 to September 2014. If the spot charter rates or short-term time charter rates in the drybulk shipping industry become significantly lower than the time charter equivalent rates that some of our charterers are obligated to pay us under our existing charters, the charterers may have incentive to default under that charter or attempt to renegotiate the charter. If our charterers fail to pay their obligations, we would have to attempt to recharter our vessels at lower charter rates, as was the case with the M/V Pearl Seas and the M/V Friendly Seas described above, which would affect our ability to operate our vessels profitably and may affect our ability to comply with covenants contained in our loan and credit facilities. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. We have entered into contracts with Ouhua, Dayang and Yangzijiang for the construction of one 4,800 TEU containership, the C/V Box King, scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2014, four Ultramax drybulk carriers scheduled for delivery between the second quarter of 2014 and the second quarter of 2015, and three Kamsarmax drybulk carriers scheduled for delivery between the second and fourth quarter of 2015. The estimated total contractual cost of our newbuilding vessels amounted to $256.2 million, of which an aggregate of $178.4 million was outstanding as of the date of this annual report and is due upon delivery of the vessels. In the event our counterparty under the construction contracts discussed above does not perform under its agreements with us and we are unable to enforce certain refund guarantees with third party banks due to an outbreak of war, bankruptcy or otherwise, we may lose all or part of our investment, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 19 In addition, we enter into, among other things, charter parties, credit facilities with banks and interest rate swap agreements. Such agreements also subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the shipping sector, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, charter rates received for specific types of drybulk carriers, the supply and demand for commodities such as iron ore, coal, grain, and other minor bulks, and various expenses. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels. We primarily employ our vessels in the spot charter market, on short-term time charters or on voyage charters, ranging from 10 days to three months. However, depending on the time charter market, we may decide from time to time to employ our vessels on medium to long-term time charters. As of the date of this annual report, most of our vessels were employed on fixed-rate time charters or voyage charters, all of which are scheduled to expire in 2014. We have not yet secured employment for our 4,800 TEU containership newbuilding vessel under construction, which is scheduled to be delivered to us in the second quarter of 2014, for our four Ultramax drybulk carriers under construction, which are scheduled to be delivered to us between the second quarter of 2014 and the second quarter of 2015, and for our three Kamsarmax drybulk carriers under construction, which are scheduled to be delivered to us between the second and fourth quarter of 2015. Currently, prevailing drybulk carrier charter rates and containership charter rates are below historical averages. In the past, charter rates for vessels have declined below operating costs of vessels. If our vessels become available for employment in the spot market or under new time charters during periods when charter rates are at depressed levels, as was the case with respect to certain of our vessels in 2012, we may have to employ our vessels at depressed charter rates, if we are able to secure employment for our vessels at all, which would lead to reduced or volatile earnings. Future charter rates may not be at a level that will enable us to operate our vessels profitably to allow us to repay our debt and meet our other obligations. We may be required to recognize additional losses relating to our investment in Box Ships if the stock price of Box Ships' common share declines further. Currently, we own 13.6% of the outstanding common shares of Box Ships. As of September 30, 2013 and as of December 31, 2013, we considered the decline of the fair value of the investment in Box Ships as other than temporary and therefore, the investment was impaired and an aggregate loss of $8.2 million was recorded. The fair value of our investment in Box Ships based on the closing price of Box Ships' common shares on the NYSE on December 31, 2013, or $3.29, was $11.3 million. If the stock price of Box Ships' common share declines further due to other than temporary reasons, we will be required to recognize additional losses. The fair value of our investment in Box Ships, based on the closing price of Box Ships' common share on the NYSE on March 26, 2014, of $2.40, was $8.3 million. We may not be able to raise equity and debt financing sufficient to meet our capital and operating needs and to comply with our loan covenants, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot assure you that the net proceeds from any future equity offering or debt financing would be sufficient to satisfy our capital and operating needs and enable us to comply with our various debt covenants. In such case, we may not be able to raise additional equity capital or obtain additional debt financing or refinance our existing indebtedness, if necessary. If we are not able to comply with our loan covenants and our lenders choose to accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens, we could be required to sell vessels in our fleet and our ability to continue to conduct our business would be impaired. 20 We may have difficulty properly managing our planned growth through acquisitions of our newbuilding vessels and additional vessels. We intend to grow our business through the acquisition of our eight contracted newbuilding vessels and we may make selective acquisitions of other additional secondhand and newbuilding vessels. Our future growth will primarily depend on our ability to locate and acquire suitable additional vessels, enlarge our customer base, operate and supervise newbuilding vessels we may order, and obtain required debt or equity financing on acceptable terms. A delay in the delivery to us of any vessel we contract to acquire, including our eight newbuilding vessels, or the failure of the seller or shipyard to deliver a vessel to us at all, could cause us to breach our obligations under a related charter and could adversely affect our earnings. In addition, the delivery of any of these vessels with substantial defects could have similar consequences. A shipyard could fail to deliver a newbuilding on time or at all because of: · work stoppages or other hostilities, political or economic disturbances that disrupt the operations of the shipyard; · quality or engineering problems; · bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipyard; · a backlog of orders at the shipyard; · weather interference or catastrophic events, such as major earthquakes or fires; · our requests for changes to the original vessel specifications or disputes with the shipyard; or · shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel, or equipment, such as main engines, electricity generators and propellers. In addition, we may seek to terminate a newbuilding contract due to market conditions, financing limitations, significant delay in the delivery of the vessels or other reasons. If for any reason we fail to take delivery of our eight newbuilding vessels, we would be prevented from realizing potential revenues from these vessels, we may be required to forego deposits on construction, which amounted to an aggregate of $77.8 million as of the date of this annual report, and we may incur additional costs and liability to the shipyard under the construction contracts. The delivery of any secondhand vessel we may agree to acquire could be delayed because of, among other things, hostilities or political disturbances, non-performance of the purchase agreement with respect to the vessels by the seller, our inability to obtain requisite permits, approvals or financing or damage to or destruction of the vessels while being operated by the seller prior to the delivery date. During periods in which charter rates are high, vessel values generally are high as well, and it may be difficult to consummate vessel acquisitions or enter into newbuilding contracts at favorable prices. During periods when charter rates are low, we may be unable to fund the acquisition of newbuilding vessels, whether through lending or cash on hand. For these reasons, we may be unable to execute our growth plans or avoid significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth efforts. Our Board of Directors has determined to suspend the payment of cash dividends as a result of market conditions in the international shipping industry and, until such conditions improve, it is unlikely that we will reinstate the payment of dividends. As a result of the market conditions in the international shipping industry, our Board of Directors, beginning with the first quarter of 2011, has suspended payment of our common share quarterly dividend. Our dividend policy is assessed by the Board of Directors from time to time. The suspension allows us to retain cash and increase our liquidity so we are in a better position to capitalize on investment opportunities during the weakened market conditions. Until market conditions improve, it is unlikely that we will reinstate the payment of dividends. In addition, other external factors, including restrictions on our ability to pay dividends under the terms of our loan and credit facilities, limit our ability to pay dividends. 21 For example, under the supplemental agreement we entered into with the Bank of Scotland Plc, or the Bank of Scotland, on November 30, 2012, we are not permitted to declare or pay any dividends until the maturity of the respective loan agreement in July 2015. In addition, certain of our other loan and credit facilities restrict the amount of dividends we may pay to $0.50 per share per annum and limit the amount of quarterly dividends we may pay to 100% of our net income for the immediately preceding financial quarter. We are also required to maintain minimum liquidity after payment of dividends equal to the greater of the next six months' debt service, $25.0 million or $1.25 million per vessel. Furthermore, we may not be permitted to pay dividends if we are in breach of the covenants contained in our loan and credit facilities. The terms of our loan and credit facilities contain a number of financial covenants and general covenants that require us to, among other things, maintain security cover ratios, minimum cash balances and insurance including, but not limited to, hull and machinery insurance in an amount at least equal to the fair market value of the vessels financed, as determined by third party valuations. We may not be permitted to pay dividends in any amount under our loan and credit facilities if we are in default of any of these loan covenants or if we do not meet specified debt coverage ratios and minimum charter rate levels. Moreover, the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, in the future will depend on the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends if the company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon payment of such dividend and under Marshall Islands law, dividends may only be declared and paid out of surplus or, under certain circumstances, net profits. The derivative contracts we have entered into to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates could result in higher than market interest rates and charges against our income. We have entered into interest rate swaps for purposes of managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates applicable to indebtedness under certain of our credit facilities, which were advanced at a floating rate based on LIBOR. Our hedging strategies, however, may not be effective and we may incur substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. Since our existing interest rate swaps do not, and future derivative contracts may not, qualify for treatment as hedges for accounting purposes, we recognize fluctuations in the fair value of such contracts in our statement of operations. In addition, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected to the extent we do not hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations under our financing arrangements. Any hedging activities we engage in may not effectively manage our interest rate exposure or have the desired impact on our financial conditions or results of operations. At December 31, 2013, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $1.3 million. Substantial debt levels could limit our flexibility to obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2013, we had outstanding indebtedness of $180.1 million. We expect to incur additional indebtedness in order to fund the aggregate remaining purchase commitments for our eight newbuilding vessels amounting to $178.4 million as of the date of this annual report, and any further growth of our fleet. This level of debt could have significant adverse consequences to our business and future prospects, including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may be unavailable on favorable terms or at all; · we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash from operations to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and future dividend payments to shareholders, if any; 22 · we could become more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates, particularly given our substantial indebtedness, some of which bears interest at variable rates; · we may not be able to meet financial ratios included in our loan and credit facilities due to market conditions or other events beyond our control, which could result in a default under these agreements and trigger cross-default provisions in our other loan and credit facilities; · our debt level could make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and · our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating income is not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions, such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, a lack of liquidity in the debt and equity markets could hinder our ability to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing on favorable terms in the future. We may not be able to refinance indebtedness incurred under our loan and credit facilities if we are not able to meet our debt service requirements relating to such indebtedness, or we may be unable to borrow under our existing or future debt agreements, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As of December 31, 2013, we had $180.1 million of outstanding indebtedness under our loan and credit facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. For so long as we have outstanding indebtedness under our loan and credit facilities, we will have to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest of this indebtedness. We may not be able to generate cash flow in amounts that are sufficient for these purposes. If we are not able to satisfy these obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans or sell our assets. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, any defaults by them, and the market value of our fleet, among other things, may materially affect our ability to obtain alternative financing. In addition, debt service payments under our loan and credit facilities or alternative financing may limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations, our lenders could declare the debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on our fleet, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that we may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. In addition, if the recent financial difficulties experienced by financial institutions worldwide lead to such institutions being unable to meet their lending commitments, that inability could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations and grow our fleet. If we are not able to borrow under our existing or future debt agreements and are unable to find alternative sources of financing on terms that are acceptable to us or at all, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. We may have difficulty effectively managing our planned growth. Since the completion of our initial public offering in August 2007, we have increased the size of fleet from six drybulk carriers to fourteen drybulk carriers. In addition, as of the date of this annual report, our current newbuilding program consists of two Ultramax drybulk carriers and one 4,800 TEU containership that are scheduled to be delivered in 2014, as well as two Ultramax drybulk carriers and three Kamsarmax drybulk carriers that are scheduled to be delivered in 2015. We have granted Box Ships the option to acquire our newbuilding containership by way of a novation of the construction contract from us at any time prior to the vessel's delivery to us, or purchase of the vessel at any time after its delivery to us, so long as the vessel is owned by us at such time. 23 The addition to our fleet of the vessels described above has resulted in a significant increase in the size of our fleet and imposes significant additional responsibilities on our management and staff. While we expect our fleet to grow further, this may require us to increase the number of our personnel. We will also have to increase our customer base to provide continued employment for the new vessels. Our future growth will primarily depend on our ability to: · locate and acquire suitable vessels; · identify and consummate acquisitions or joint ventures; · integrating any acquired vessels successfully with our existing operations; · enhance our customer base; · manage our expansion; and · obtain required financing on acceptable terms. We may not be successful in executing our growth plans and we may incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth. If we are not able to successfully grow the size of our company or increase the size of our fleet, our financial condition, results of operations may be adversely affected. The expansion of our fleet may impose significant additional responsibilities on our management and the management and staff of Allseas, a company controlled by our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Bodouroglou, that is responsible for the commercial and technical management functions for our fleet and provides the services of our executive officers, and may necessitate that we and Allseas increase the number of personnel. Allseas may have to increase its customer base to provide continued employment of our fleet, and such costs will be passed on to us by Allseas. We are dependent on Allseas for the commercial and technical management of our fleet, as well as to provide us with our executive officers, and the failure of Allseas to satisfactorily perform its services may adversely affect our business. We have entered into an executive services agreement with Allseas, pursuant to which Allseas provides the services of our executive officers, which include strategy, business development, marketing, finance and other services, who report directly to our Board of Directors. In connection with the respective agreement, Allseas is entitled to an executive services fee, plus incentive compensation. The agreement has an initial term of five years and automatically renews for successive five year terms unless sooner terminated in accordance with the agreement. In addition, as we subcontract the commercial and technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair, to Allseas, the loss of Allseas' services or its failure to perform its obligations to us could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Although we may have rights against Allseas if it defaults on its obligations to us, you will have no recourse directly against Allseas. Further, our loan and credit facilities require the approval from our lenders to change our commercial and technical manager. 24 Since Allseas is a privately held company and there is little or no publicly available information about it, an investor could have little advance warning of potential problems that might affect Allseas that could have a material adverse effect on us. The ability of Allseas to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair Allseas' financial strength, and because it is privately held, it is unlikely that information about its financial strength would become public unless Allseas began to default on its obligations. As a result, an investor in our shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting Allseas, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. Our executive officers have affiliations with Allseas and Box Ships, which may create conflicts of interest that may permit them to favor the interests of Allseas and Box Ships and their affiliates above our interests and those of our shareholders. Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Bodouroglou, is the beneficial owner of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Allseas and Crewcare Inc., or Crewcare, our manning agent, and our Chief Operating Officer, Mr. George Skrimizeas, is the President and director of Allseas. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and Allseas, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the chartering, purchase, sale and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus other vessels managed by Allseas or other companies affiliated with Allseas and Mr. Bodouroglou. To the extent that entities affiliated with Mr. Bodouroglou, other than us, or Allseas own or operate vessels that may compete for employment or management services in the future, Allseas may give preferential treatment to vessels that are beneficially owned by related parties because Mr. Bodouroglou and members of his family may receive greater economic benefits. Mr. Bodouroglou granted to us a right of first refusal over future vessels that he or entities affiliated with him may seek to acquire in the future. However, we may not exercise our right to acquire all or any of these vessels in the future, and such vessels may compete with our fleet. In addition, Allseas currently provides management services to vessels in Box Ships' fleet as well as our fleet. We have entered into an agreement with Box Ships and Mr. Michael Bodouroglou that provides that so long as (i) Mr. Bodouroglou is a director or executive officer of both our Company and Box Ships and (ii) we own at least 5% of the total issued and outstanding common shares of Box Ships, Box Ships will not, directly or indirectly, acquire or charter any drybulk carrier without our prior written consent and we will not, directly or indirectly, acquire or charter any containership without the prior written consent of Box Ships. To the extent that we believe it is in our interest to grant such consent and Box Ships acquires drybulk vessels, such vessels may compete with our fleet. Allseas is not a party to the non-competition agreement described above and, under the terms of the agreement, may provide vessel management services to drybulk vessels other than ours. These conflicts of interest may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, other conflicts of interest may arise between Box Ships, Allseas, and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our shareholders, on the other hand. For example, notwithstanding our non-competition agreement with Box Ships described above, Box Ships may claim other business opportunities that would benefit us, such as the hiring of employees, the acquisition of other businesses, or the entry into joint ventures, and in each case other than business opportunities in the drybulk shipping industry, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, Mr. Bodouroglou also serves as the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Box Ships and our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Robert Perri, also serves as the Chief Financial Officer of Box Ships. Therefore, these individuals, who advise our Board of Directors on the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional capital stock and cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of the cash available for distribution to our shareholders, may favor the interests of Box Ships or its affiliates and may not provide us with business opportunities that would benefit us. In addition, our executive officers and those of our Manager will not spend all of their time on matters related to our business. 25 Furthermore, Mr. Bodouroglou and Mr. Perri have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner that is beneficial to us and our shareholders the business and they have fiduciary duties to manage the business of Box Ships and its affiliates in a manner beneficial to such entities and their shareholders. Consequently, these officers and directors, as applicable, may encounter situations in which their fiduciary obligations to Box Ships and us are in conflict. We believe the principal situations in which these conflicts may occur are in the allocation of business opportunities to Box Ships or us, such as with respect to the allocation and hiring of employees, the acquisition of other businesses or the entry into joint ventures, and in each case other than business opportunities in the drybulk shipping industry. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our shareholders and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Although we have entered into a non-competition agreement with Box Ships and Mr. Michael Bodouroglou, as a result of the conflicts discussed above, Allseas may favor its own interests, the interests of Box Ships and the interests of its affiliates, and our executive officers may favor the interests of Allseas, Box Ships and its affiliates, over our interests and those of our shareholders, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and reduced fleet utilization. While we have the right to inspect previously owned vessels prior to our purchase of them and we intend to inspect all secondhand vessels that we acquire in the future, such an inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition that we would have if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. A secondhand vessel may have conditions or defects that we were not aware of when we bought the vessel and which may require us to incur costly repairs to the vessel. These repairs may require us to put a vessel into dry-dock which would reduce our fleet utilization. Furthermore, we usually do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. We or our Manager may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team, including our ability to retain key members of our management team and to hire new members as may be necessary. As of the date of this annual report, we have two shoreside salaried employees and we reimburse our Manager for the services of our executive officers. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining replacement personnel could adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. We do not intend to maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers or other members of our management team. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose our vessels or to compensate third parties. There are a number of risks associated with the operation of ocean-going vessels, including mechanical failure, collision, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, property loss, cargo loss or damage and business interruption due to political circumstances in foreign countries, hostilities and labor strikes. Any of these events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows. In addition, the operation of any vessel is subject to the inherent possibility of marine disaster, including oil spills and other environmental mishaps, and the liabilities arising from owning and operating vessels in international trade. We are insured against tort claims and some contractual claims (including claims related to environmental damage and pollution) through memberships in protection and indemnity associations or clubs, or P&I Associations. As a result of such membership, the P&I Associations provide us coverage for such tort and contractual claims. We also carry hull and machinery insurance and war risk insurance for our fleet. We insure our vessels for third-party liability claims subject to and in accordance with the rules of the P&I Associations in which the vessels are entered. We also maintain insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result in the loss of use of a vessel. We can give no assurance that we will be adequately insured against all risks and we cannot guarantee that any particular claim will be paid. 26 In addition, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future or renew our insurance policies on the same or commercially reasonable terms, or at all. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led in the past to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, protection and indemnity insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends in amounts anticipated or at all. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Furthermore, our insurance policies may not cover all losses that we incur, or that disputes over insurance claims will not arise with our insurance carriers. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. In addition, our insurance policies are subject to limitations and exclusions, which may increase our costs or lower our revenues, thereby possibly having a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends in amounts anticipated or at all. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs or loss of hire in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. As of the date of this annual report, our fleet was comprised of eight Panamax drybulk carriers, two Supramax drybulk carriers and four Handysize drybulk carriers with an aggregate capacity of 853,699 dwt and an average age of 7.5 years. In addition, our newbuilding program consists of two Ultramax drybulk carriers and one 4,800 TEU containership that are scheduled to be delivered in 2014, as well as two Ultramax drybulk carriers and three Kamsarmax drybulk carriers that are scheduled to be delivered in 2015. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may also require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. In addition, charterers actively discriminate against hiring older vessels. For example, Rightship, the ship vetting service maintained by Rio Tinto, Cargill and BHP-Billiton which has become the major vetting service in the drybulk shipping industry, ranks the suitability of vessels based on a scale of one to five stars. Most major carriers will generally not charter a vessel that Rightship has vetted with fewer than three stars. Rightship automatically downgrades any vessel over 18 years of age to two stars, which significantly decreases its chances of entering into a charter. Therefore, as our vessels approach and exceed 18 years of age, we may not be able to operate these vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We generate substantially all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but certain of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to these other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the U.S. dollar falls in value could increase, decreasing our net income and cash flow from operations. If the recent volatility in LIBOR continues, it could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. We have entered into interest rate swap agreements converting floating interest rate exposure into fixed interest rates in order to economically hedge our exposure to fluctuations in prevailing market interest rates. However, our exposure to floating interest rate is only partially hedged. For more information on our interest rate swap agreements, refer to Note 9 in our consolidated financial statements included at the end of this annual report. 27 Historically, LIBOR has been volatile, with the spread between LIBOR and the prime lending rate widening significantly at times. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by our outstanding indebtedness fluctuate with changes in LIBOR, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Furthermore, interest in most loan agreements in our industry has been based on published LIBOR rates. Recently, however, lenders have insisted on provisions that entitle the lenders, in their discretion, to replace published LIBOR as the base for the interest calculation with their cost-of-funds rate. If we are required to agree to such a provision in future loan agreements, our lending costs could increase significantly, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deductions, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under section 883 of the Code, or Section 883, and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. We and each of our subsidiaries qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. For example, we would no longer qualify for exemption under Section 883 for a particular taxable year if shareholders resident in certain jurisdictions with a 5% or greater interest in our common shares owned, in the aggregate, 50% or more of our outstanding common shares for more than half the days during the taxable year. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we can give no assurances with regard to our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to the tax exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject during those years to a 4% U.S. federal income tax on our gross U.S. source shipping income (without allowance for deduction) under section 887 of the Code. The imposition of this tax could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. In the absence of exemption from tax under Section 883, we would have been subject to a 4% tax on our gross U.S.-source shipping income equal to approximately $0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce, or are held for the production of, those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property, and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our current and proposed method of operation, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that income from our time chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute assets that produce, or are held for the production of, "passive income." 28 There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, we note that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders would face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences and information reporting obligations. Under the PFIC rules, unless those U.S. shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such U.S. shareholders), such U.S. shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing U.S. federal income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon "excess distributions" and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if such "excess distribution" or gain had been recognized ratably over the U.S. shareholder's holding period of our common shares. See "Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Material U.S., Marshall Islands Income Tax Considerations—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Passive Foreign Investment Company Status and Significant Tax Consequences" for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations and to make dividend payments, if any, in the future. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries, which are wholly-owned by us, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments, if any, in the future depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. We do not intend to obtain funds from other sources to pay dividends, if any, in the future. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends by us and our Marshall Islands and Liberian subsidiaries will depend on the provisions of Marshall Islands and Liberian law affecting the payment of dividends. Marshall Islands and Liberian law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus or net profits or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent upon payment of such dividend. Our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future will also be subject to our satisfaction of certain financial covenants contained in our loan and credit facilities. Currently, under our loan agreement with the Bank of Scotland, we are not permitted to declare or pay any dividends until the maturity of the respective loan agreement in July 2015. In addition, certain of our other loan and credit facilities restrict the amount of dividends we may pay to $0.50 per share per annum and limit the amount of quarterly dividends we may pay to 100% of our net income for the immediately preceding financial quarter. We are also required to maintain minimum liquidity after payment of dividends equal to the greater of the next six months' debt service, $25.0 million or $1.25 million per vessel. 29 As we expand our business, our Manager may need to improve our operating and financial systems and will need to recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels on our behalf. If we are unable to do so, those systems may become ineffective, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we expand the size of our fleet and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, as we expand our fleet, our Manager will need to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shoreside administrative and management personnel on our behalf. While our Manager has not experienced any difficulty in recruiting to date, we cannot guarantee that our Manager will be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If we or our crewing agent encounter business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If our Manager is unable to grow our financial and operating systems or to recruit suitable employees on our behalf as we expand our fleet, our financial performance may be adversely affected. Because our seafaring employees are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements, failure of industry groups to renew those agreements may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our earnings. As of December 31, 2013, 252 seafarers were employed, mainly by Crewcare, our manning agent, to crew our vessels. All of the seafarers employed on the vessels in our fleet are covered by industry-wide collective bargaining agreements that set basic standards. These agreements may not prevent labor interruptions. Any labor interruption could disrupt our operations and harm our financial performance. It may not be possible for investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We and all our subsidiaries are incorporated in jurisdictions outside the United States and substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the United States. In addition, all of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the United States upon us, our subsidiaries or our directors and officers or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our or the assets of our subsidiaries are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. We may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and the ultimate outcome of any litigation or the potential costs to resolve them may have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board is currently unable to inspect the audit work and practices of auditors operating in Greece, including our auditor. Auditors of U.S. public companies are required by law to undergo periodic Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) inspections that assess their compliance with U.S. law and professional standards in connection with the performance of audits of financial statements filed with the SEC. Certain European Union, or EU, countries do not permit the PCAOB to conduct inspections of accounting firms established and operating in EU countries, even if they are part of major international firms. The PCAOB has concluded cooperative agreements within the European Union with the United Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain and, most recently, Finland and France. Additionally, the PCAOB has entered into cooperative agreements with Switzerland and Norway, and with several non-European regulators in North America, the Middle East, Asia, and Australia. Accordingly, unlike for most U.S. public companies, the PCAOB is currently prevented from evaluating our auditor's performance of audits and its quality control procedures, and, unlike the shareholders of most U.S. public companies, our shareholders are deprived of the possible benefits of such inspections. The PCAOB continues to pursue additional agreements with audit oversight authorities in other EU member states and jurisdictions around the world. 30 Risks Relating to Our Common Shares The continued downturn in the drybulk carrier charter market has had a significant adverse impact on the market price of our common shares and may affect our ability to maintain our listing on NASDAQ or other securities exchange on which our common shares may be traded. The continued weakness in the drybulk charter market has caused the price of our common shares to decline significantly since 2008. On November 25, 2011, we received notification from the NYSE, on which we were then listed, that we were no longer in compliance with the NYSE's continued listing requirements because the average closing price of our common shares had fallen below $1.00 for a consecutive 30-trading day period. In November 2012, with the approval of shareholders at our 2012 annual general meeting of shareholders, we conducted a 10-for-1 reverse stock split of our issued and outstanding common shares in order to continue to meet the minimum continued listing standards of the NYSE. Subsequently, the NYSE notified us that we had regained compliance on December 19, 2012. In April of 2013, we voluntarily transferred the listing of our common stock to NASDAQ. Further declines in the trading price of our common shares may cause us to fail to meet certain of the continuing listing standards of NASDAQ, which could result in the delisting of our common shares. If our shares cease to be traded on the NASDAQ or on another national securities exchange, the price at which you may be able to sell your common shares of the company may be significantly lower than their current trading price or you may not be able to sell them at all. The failure of our common shares to be listed on the NASDAQ may also result in defaults under our credit facilities. We are currently in compliance with all applicable NASDAQ listing standards. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely since we became a public company in August 2007 and may continue to do so as a result of many factors, including our actual results of operations and perceived prospects, the prospects of our competition and of the shipping industry in general and in particular the drybulk sector, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts, changes in analysts' recommendations or projections, changes in general valuations for companies in the shipping industry, particularly the drybulk sector, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. The public market for our common shares may not continue to be active and liquid enough for you to resell our common shares in the future. An active or liquid public market for our common shares may not continue going forward. Since 2008, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. If the volatility in the market continues or worsens, it could continue to have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and could impact a potential sale price if holders of our common shares decide to sell their shares. The seaborne transportation industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for common shares in this industry may be equally volatile. The market price of our common shares may be influenced by many factors, many of which are beyond our control, including those already described above, as well as the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions or capital commitments; 31 · mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; · terrorist acts; · future sales of our common shares or other securities; · market conditions in the shipping industry; · economic and regulatory trends; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; · announcements concerning us or our competitors; · the general state of the securities market; and · investors' perception of us and the drybulk shipping industry. As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common shares may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price they paid for such shares. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. Future sales of our common shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decline and our shareholders may experience dilution as a result of our on-going agreement to issue of shares of our common shares to Loretto Finance Inc. The market price of our common shares could decline due to sales of a large number of shares in the market, including sales of shares by our large shareholders, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of our common shares. In addition, in order to incentivize Allseas' continued services to us, we have entered into a tripartite agreement with Allseas and Loretto, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Allseas, pursuant to which in the event of a capital increase, an equity offering or the issuance of common shares to a third party or third parties in the future, other than common shares issued pursuant to our equity incentive plan, we have agreed to issue, at no cost to Loretto, additional common shares to Loretto in an amount equal to 2% of the total number of common shares issued pursuant to such capital increase, equity offering or third party issuance, as applicable. As of the date of this annual report, we had issued a total of 469,958 of our common shares to Loretto pursuant to this agreement. Furthermore, our shareholders may incur additional dilution from any future equity offering and upon the issuance of additional shares of our common shares upon the exercise of options we have granted to certain of our officers and directors or upon the issuance of additional restricted common shares pursuant to our equity incentive plan. Since we are incorporated in the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law, you may have more difficulty protecting your interests than shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the laws of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. The rights of shareholders of the Marshall Islands may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in the United States. While the BCA provides that it is to be interpreted according to the laws of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, there have been few, if any, court cases interpreting the BCA in the Marshall Islands, and we cannot predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions as U.S. courts. Thus, you may have more difficulty in protecting your interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction which has developed a relatively more substantial body of case law. 32 Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could make it difficult for our shareholders to replace or remove our current Board of Directors or have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Several provisions of our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our Board of Directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions: · authorize our Board of Directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock without shareholder approval; · provide for a classified Board of Directors with staggered, three year terms; · prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; · authorize the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding common shares entitled to vote for the directors; · limit the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; · establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings; and · restrict business combinations with interested shareholders. In addition, we have adopted a shareholder rights plan pursuant to which our Board of Directors may cause the substantial dilution of any person that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. See "Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Stockholder Rights Plan." The above anti-takeover provisions, including the provisions of our shareholder rights plan, could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. 