D. Risk Factors This section is intended to be a summary of more detailed discussion contained elsewhere in this annual report. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our financial condition and business operations. Risks Relating to the Joint Venture We concluded formation of the Joint Venture with Shell to further develop our sugar and ethanol and fuel distribution businesses on June 1, 2011. We cannot guarantee that the Joint Venture will be successful. On June 1, 2011, we concluded the formation of our Joint Venture with Shell, a Joint Venture relating to the production, supply, distribution and retailing of ethanol-based fuels. The Joint Venture is subject to post-closing antitrust review by CADE, the governing Brazilian antitrust regulator. We may incur unanticipated expenses, fail to realize all anticipated benefits or synergies, disrupt relationships with current and new employees, customers and vendors or incur indebtedness. Any delays or difficulties encountered with the Joint Venture could materially adversely impact our business and results of operations. We have not included financial information regarding Shell or the fuel distribution assets of Shell that it contributed to the Joint Venture. The Joint Venture is a material transaction. However, we have not included any historical financial information in this annual report regarding Shell or the fuel distribution assets that Shell contributed to the Joint Venture. In addition, we have not included any pro forma financial information regarding this Joint Venture. Investors are therefore cautioned that the nature of the assets contributed by Shell to the Joint Venture and other aspects of the Joint Venture may have a material adverse effect on us. Risks Related to Our Business, the Operations of Our Joint Venture, and Industries in Which We Operate We operate in industries in which the demand and the market price for our products are cyclical and are affected by general economic conditions in Brazil and the world. The ethanol and sugar industries, both globally and in Brazil, have historically been cyclical and sensitive to domestic and international changes in supply and demand. Ethanol is marketed as a fuel additive to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline, as an enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended or as a substitute fuel for gasoline. As a result, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply and demand for gasoline, and our business and financial performance may be materially adversely affected if gasoline demand or price decreases. The increase in the production and sale of flex fuel vehicles (hybrid vehicles, that runs with ethanol or gasoline or both combined in any proportion) has resulted, in part, from lower taxation, since 2002, of such vehicles compared to gasoline only cars. This favorable tax treatment may be eliminated and the production of flex fuel vehicles may decrease, which could adversely affect demand for ethanol. Historically, the international sugar market has experienced periods of limited supply—causing sugar prices and industry profit margins to increase—followed by an expansion in the industry that results in oversupply—causing declines in sugar prices and industry profit margins. In addition, fluctuations in prices for ethanol or sugar may occur, for various other reasons, including factors beyond our control, such as: · fluctuations in gasoline prices; · variances in the production capacities of our competitors; and · the availability of substitute goods for the ethanol and sugar products we produce. 7 Table of Contents The prices we are able to obtain for sugar depends, in large part, on prevailing market prices. These market conditions, both in Brazil and internationally, are beyond our control. The wholesale price of sugar has a significant impact on our profits. Like other agricultural commodities, sugar is subject to price fluctuations resulting from weather, natural disasters, harvest levels, agricultural investments, government policies and programs for the agricultural sector, domestic and foreign trade policies, shifts in supply and demand, increasing purchasing power, global production of similar or competing products, and other factors beyond our control. In addition, a significant portion of the total worldwide sugar production is traded on exchanges and thus is subject to speculation, which could affect the price of sugar and our results of operations. The price of sugar, in particular, is also affected by producers’ compliance with sugar export requirements and the resulting effects on domestic supply. As a consequence, sugar prices have been subject to higher historical volatility when compared to many other commodities. Competition from alternative sweeteners, including saccharine and high fructose corn syrup, known as “HFCS,” changes in Brazilian or international agricultural or trade policies or developments relating to international trade, including those under the World Trade Organization, are factors that can directly or indirectly result in lower domestic or global sugar prices. Any prolonged or significant decrease in sugar prices could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Sugar prices reached the highest levels in nearly 30 years during fiscal 2010, reflecting the deficit in global sugar production. If we are unable to maintain sales at generally prevailing market prices for ethanol and sugar in Brazil and internationally, or if we are unable to export sufficient quantities of ethanol and sugar to assure an appropriate domestic market balance, our ethanol and sugar business may be adversely affected. Ethanol prices are directly correlated to the price of sugar, so that a decline in the price of sugar will adversely affect both our ethanol and sugar businesses. The price of ethanol generally is closely associated with the price of sugar and is increasingly becoming correlated to the price of oil. A vast majority of ethanol in Brazil is produced at sugarcane mills that produce both ethanol and sugar. Because sugarcane millers are able to alter their product mix in response to the relative prices of ethanol and sugar, this results in the prices of both products being directly correlated, and the correlation between ethanol and sugar may increase over time. In addition, sugar prices in Brazil are determined by prices in the world market, so that there is a correlation between Brazilian ethanol prices and world sugar prices. Because flex fuel vehicles allow consumers to choose between gasoline and ethanol at the pump rather than at the showroom, ethanol prices are now becoming increasingly correlated to gasoline prices and, consequently, oil prices. We believe that the correlation among the three products will increase over time. Accordingly, a decline in sugar prices will have an adverse effect on the financial performance of our ethanol and sugar businesses, and a decline in oil prices may have an adverse effect on that of our ethanol business. Raízen Energia may not successfully acquire or develop additional production capacity through greenfield projects or expansion of existing facilities. Raízen Energia expects to explore greenfield projects in the future. We do not have environmental or other permits, designs or engineering, procurement and construction contracts with respect to any potential projects. As a result, we may not complete these greenfield projects on a timely basis or at all, and may not realize the related benefits we anticipate. In addition, we may be unable to obtain the required financing for these projects on satisfactory terms, or at all. For example, we may not be able to obtain all of the land for which we have obtained options in the State of Goiás or we may not have the appropriate personnel, equipment and know-how to implement projects. The integration of greenfield projects or expansion of our existing facilities may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be used for the development and ongoing expansion of our existing operations. Planned or future greenfield projects or expansion of existing facilities may not enhance our financial performance. 8 Table of Contents Raízen Energia may not successfully implement our plans to sell energy from our cogeneration projects, and the Brazilian government’s regulation of the energy sector may affect our business and financial performance. Our current total installed energy cogeneration capacity is approximately 793 MW, which are used to generate energy for our own industrial operations and to export surplus energy. We have one additional energy co-generation project that we expect to become operational in 2012. We estimate that by the end of calendar year 2012, we will have a total installed energy cogeneration capacity of 934 MW, from which 845MW will come from certain of our mills that will sell excess energy to the grid and a total installed energy capacity of 1,300 MW by 2016. The Brazilian government regulates the energy sector extensively. We may not be able to satisfy all the requirements necessary to acquire new contracts or to otherwise comply with Brazilian energy regulation. Changes to the current energy regulation or federal authorization programs, and the creation for more stringent criteria for qualification in future public energy auctions, may adversely affect the implementation of this element of our business strategy. Raízen Energia may engage in hedging transactions, which involve risks that can harm our financial performance. We are exposed to market risks arising from the conduct of our business activities—in particular, market risks arising from changes in commodity prices, exchange rates or interest rates. In an attempt to minimize the effects of volatility of sugar prices and exchange rates on our cash flows and results of operations, we engage in hedging transactions involving commodities and exchange rate futures, options, forwards and swaps. We also engage in interest rate-related hedging transactions from time to time. Hedging transactions expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price of commodities or exchange rate. We may incur significant hedging-related losses in the future. We hedge against market price fluctuations by fixing the prices of our sugar export volumes and exchange rates. Since we record derivatives at fair value, to the extent that the market prices of our products exceed the fixed price under our hedging policy, our results will be lower than they would have been if we had not engaged in such transactions as a result of the related non-cash derivative expenses. As a result, our financial performance would be adversely affected during periods in which commodities prices increase. Alternatively, we may choose not to engage in hedging transactions in the future, which could adversely affect our financial performance during periods in which commodities prices decrease. Raízen Energia faces significant competition, which may adversely affect our market share and profitability. The ethanol and sugar industries are highly competitive. Internationally, we compete with global ethanol and sugar producers such as Poet, Inc., Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, Cargill, Inc. and A.E. Staley Manufacturing Company (a subsidiary of Tate & Lyle, PLC). Some of our competitors are divisions of larger enterprises and have greater financial resources than our company. In Brazil, we compete with numerous small to medium-size producers. Despite increased consolidation, the Brazilian ethanol and sugar industries remain highly fragmented. Our major competitors in Brazil are Louis Dreyfus Commodities - Santelisa Vale (the second largest ethanol and sugar producer in Brazil), Tereos - Guarani (the third largest ethanol and sugar producer in Brazil), Bunge, Santa Terezinha, São Martinho, Carlos Lyra, Tercio Wanderley, Zilor, Oscar Figueiredo, Da Pedra, and Irmãos Biagi and other ethanol and sugar producers in Brazil market their ethanol and sugar products through the Cooperative of Sugarcane, Sugar and Ethanol Producers of the State of São Paulo (Cooperativa de Produtores de Cana-de-açúcar, Açúcar e Álcool do Estado de São Paulo), or “Copersucar.” During the 2011/2012 harvest, Copersucar was comprised of producers in the states of São Paulo, Minas Gerais and Paraná. We are not a member of Copersucar. We face strong competition from international producers – in particular, in highly regulated and protected markets, such as the United States and the European Union. Historically, imports of sugar have not provided substantial competition for us in Brazil due to, among other factors, the production and logistical cost-competitiveness of sugar produced in Brazil. If the Brazilian government creates incentives for sugar imports, we could face increased competition in the Brazilian market by foreign producers. Many factors influence our competitive position, including the availability, quality and cost of fertilizer, energy, water, chemical products and labor. Some of our international competitors have greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases and broader product ranges than we do. If we are unable to remain competitive with these producers in the future, our market share may be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents The fuel distribution and lubricant market in Brazil is highly competitive. We compete with domestic fuel distributors who purchase substantially all of their fuels from Petrobras. There are very few domestic competitors, like us, who import certain products into Brazil. In addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and retail consumers. Certain of our competitors, such as Petrobras, have larger fuel distribution networks and vertically integrated oil refineries, and may be able to realize lower per-barrel costs or higher margins per barrel of throughput. Our principal competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. Because of their integrated operations and larger capitalization, these companies may be more flexible in responding to volatile industry or market conditions, such as shortages of crude oil and other feedstocks or intense price fluctuations. The actions of our competitors could lead to lower prices or reduced margins for the products we sell, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business or results of operations. A reduction in market demand for ethanol or a change in governmental policies that ethanol be added to gasoline may materially adversely affect our business. Governmental authorities of several countries, including Brazil and certain states of the United States, currently require the use of ethanol as an additive to gasoline. Since 1997, the Brazilian Sugar and Alcohol Interministerial Council (Conselho Interministerial do Açúcar e Álcool) has set the percentage of anhydrous ethanol that must be used as an additive to gasoline (currently, at 20% by volume). Approximately one-half of all fuel ethanol in Brazil is used to fuel automobiles that run on a blend of anhydrous ethanol and gasoline; the remainder is used in either flex fuel vehicles or vehicles powered by hydrous ethanol alone. Five districts in China require the addition of 10% ethanol to gasoline. Japan is discussing the requirement the addition of 3% of ethanol to gasoline, increasing such requirement to 20% in 2030 and nine states and four union territories in India require the addition of 5% of ethanol to gasoline. Other countries have similar governmental policies requiring various blends of anhydrous ethanol and gasoline. In addition, flex fuel vehicles in Brazil are currently taxed at lower levels than gasoline-only vehicles, which has contributed to the increase in the production and sale of flex fuel vehicles. Any reduction in the percentage of ethanol required to be added to gasoline or increase in the levels at which flex fuel vehicles are taxed in Brazil, as well as growth in the demand for natural gas and other fuels as an alternative to ethanol, lower gasoline prices or an increase in gasoline consumption (versus ethanol), may cause demand for ethanol to decline and affect our business. In addition, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply and demand for gasoline; therefore, a reduction in oil prices resulting in a decrease in gasoline prices and an increase in gasoline consumption (versus ethanol), may have a material and adverse effect in our business. Government policies and regulations affecting the agricultural and fuel sectors and related industries could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Agricultural production and trade flows are significantly affected by Brazilian federal, state and local, as well as foreign, government policies and regulations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, may influence industry profitability, the planting of certain crops versus others, the uses of agricultural resources, the location and size of crop production, the trading levels for unprocessed versus processed commodities, and the volume and types of imports and exports. Future government policies in Brazil and elsewhere may adversely affect the supply, and demand for, and prices of, our products or restrict our ability to do business in our existing and target markets, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Sugar prices, like the prices of many other staple goods in Brazil, were historically subject to controls imposed by the Brazilian government. Sugar prices in Brazil have not been subject to price controls since 1997. However, additional measures may be imposed in the future. In addition, our operations are currently concentrated in the State of São Paulo. Any changes affecting governmental policies and regulations regarding ethanol, sugar or sugarcane in the State of São Paulo may adversely affect our company. In addition, petroleum and petroleum products have historically been subject of price controls in Brazil. Currently there is no legislation or regulation in force giving the Brazilian government power to set prices for petroleum, petroleum products, ethanol or NGV. However, given that Petrobras, the only supplier of oil-based fuels in Brazil, is a state-controlled company, prices of petroleum and petroleum products are subject to government influence, resulting in potential inconsistencies between international prices and internal oil derivative prices that affect our business and our financial results, which are not linked to international prices. 10 Table of Contents We may not be successful in reducing operating costs and increasing operating efficiencies. As part of our strategy, we continue to seek to reduce operating costs and increase operating efficiencies to improve our future financial performance. For example, we are purchasing new harvesters and increasing our mechanical harvesting with the goal of reducing sugarcane burning according to the Agri-Environmental Sugarcane Protocol. In areas that are suitable for the replacement of a manual harvest with a mechanical harvest, the burning of sugarcane must be reduced as follows: (1) 70% of the harvested area by 2010; and (2) 100% of the harvested area by 2014. For areas that do not technically allow the replacement of a manual harvest with a mechanical harvest, the burning of sugarcane must be reduced as follows: (1) 30% of the harvested area by 2010; and (2) 100% of the harvested area by 2017. We may not be able to achieve the cost savings that we expect to realize from this and other initiatives. Any failure to realize anticipated cost savings may adversely affect our competitiveness and financial performance. Government laws and regulations governing the burning of sugarcane could have a material adverse impact on our business or financial performance. Approximately 35% of our sugarcane is currently harvested by burning the crop, which removes leaves and destroys insects and other pests. The State of São Paulo and some local governments have established laws and regulations that limit our ability to burn sugarcane or that reduce and/or entirely prohibit the burning of sugarcane. We currently incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations, and there is a likelihood that increasingly stringent regulations relating to the burning of sugarcane will be imposed by the State of São Paulo and other governmental agencies in the near future. As a result, the costs to comply with existing or new laws or regulations are likely to increase, and, as a result, our ability to operate our own mills and harvest our sugarcane crops may be adversely affected. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations may subject us to legal and administrative actions. These actions can result in civil or criminal penalties, including a requirement to pay penalties or fines, which may range from R$50.00 to R$50,000 million and can be doubled or tripled in case of recidivism, an obligation to make capital and other expenditures or an obligation to materially change or cease some operations. Adverse weather conditions may reduce the volume and sucrose content of sugarcane that we can cultivate and purchase in a given harvest, and we are affected by seasonality of the sugarcane growing cycle. Our sugar production depends on the volume and sucrose content of the sugarcane that we cultivate or that is supplied to us by growers located in the vicinity of our mills. Crop yields and sucrose content depend primarily on weather conditions such as rainfall and temperature, which vary and may be influenced by global climate change. Weather conditions have historically caused volatility in the ethanol and sugar industries and, consequently, in our results of operations by causing crop failures or reduced harvests. Flood, drought or frost, which may be influenced by global climate change, can adversely affect the supply and pricing of the agricultural commodities that we sell and use in our business. Future weather patterns may reduce the amount of sugar or sugarcane that we can recover in a given harvest or its sucrose content. In addition, our business is subject to seasonal trends based on the sugarcane growing cycle in the Center-South region of Brazil. The annual sugarcane harvesting period in the Center-South region of Brazil begins in April/May and ends in November/December. This creates fluctuations in our inventory, usually peaking in November to cover sales between crop harvests (i.e., December through April), and a degree of seasonality in our gross profit, with ethanol and sugar sales significantly lower in the last quarter of the fiscal year. Seasonality and any reduction in the volumes of sugar recovered could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We may be adversely affected by a shortage of sugarcane or by high sugarcane costs. Sugarcane is our principal raw material used for the production of ethanol and sugar. In fiscal year 2012, sugarcane purchased from suppliers accounted for 49.9% of our total sugarcane crushed. Historically, approximately 80% of the sugarcane purchased by us has been under medium- and long-term contracts with sugarcane growers, 5% on a spot basis and the remaining 15% from sugarcane growers with whom we have long-term relationships but no contractual arrangements. We generally enter into medium- and long-term supply contracts for periods varying from three and one-half to seven years. As of March 31, 2012, we also leased 68,291 hectares under 10 land lease contracts with an average term of fourteen years. Any shortage in sugarcane supply or increase in sugarcane prices in the near future, including as a result of the termination of supply contracts or lease agreements representing a 11 Table of Contents material reduction in the sugarcane available to us for processing or increase in sugarcane prices may adversely affect our business and financial performance. Social movements may affect the use of our agricultural properties or cause damage to them. Social movements such as the Landless Rural Workers’ Movement (Movimento dos Trabalhadores Rurais Sem Terra) and the Pastoral Land Commission (Comissão Pastoral da Terra) are active in Brazil and advocate land reform and property redistribution by the Brazilian Government. Invasion and occupation of agricultural land by large numbers of people is a common practice among the members of such movements, and in certain regions, including those where we currently invest, remedies such as police protection or eviction procedures are inadequate or non-existent. As a result, we cannot assure you that our agricultural properties will not be subject to invasion or occupation by any of such social movements. Any invasion or occupation may materially impair the use of our lands and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Alternative sweeteners have negatively affected demand for our sugar products in Brazil and other countries. We believe that the use of alternative sweeteners, especially artificial alternative sweeteners such as aspartame, saccharine and HFCS, has adversely affected the growth of the overall demand for sugar in Brazil and the rest of the world. Soft drink bottlers in many countries have switched from sugar to, or increased consumption of, alternative sweeteners. In addition, the use of alternative sweeteners by sugar consumers, including soft drink bottlers, may also reduce the demand for sugar in Brazil. A substantial decrease in sugar consumption, or the increased use of alternative or artificial sweeteners, would decrease demand for our sugar products and could result in lower growth in our net sales and overall financial performance. Raízen Energia sugar and ethanol products are sold to a small number of customers which may be able to exercise significant bargaining power concerning pricing and other sale terms. A substantial portion of Raízen Energia´s sugar and ethanol production is sold to a small number of customers that acquire large portions of our production and thus may be able to exercise significant bargaining power concerning pricing and other sale terms. In addition, intensive competition in the ethanol and sugar industries further increases the bargaining power of customers. Raízen Energia export sales are subject to a broad range of risks associated with international operations. In fiscal year 2012, our net sales from exports represented 7.4% of our total net sales, while in fiscal year 2011, our net sales from exports represented 15.0% of our total net sales. In fiscal year 2011, our net sales from exports were R$ 2,711.0 million, representing 15.0% of our total net sales. In fiscal year 2012, our net sales from exports were R$ 1,781.7 million, representing 7.4% of our total net sales. During this same period, our net sales from sugar exports were R$ 1,457.6 million, representing 0.006% of our total net sales, and our net sales from exports of ethanol were R$ 319.4 million, representing 0.001% of our total net sales. We expect to expand our ethanol exports in the future. Expansion of ethanol exports depends on factors beyond our control, including liberalization of existing trade barriers and the establishment of distribution systems for hydrous ethanol in countries outside of Brazil. Our future financial performance will depend, to a significant extent, on economic, political and social conditions in our main export markets. Most ethanol and/or sugar producing countries, including the United States and member countries of the European Union, protect local producers from foreign competition by establishing government policies and regulations that affect ethanol and sugar production, including quotas, import and export restrictions, subsidies, tariffs and duties. As a result of these policies, domestic ethanol and sugar prices vary greatly in individual countries. We have limited or no access to these large markets as a result of trade barriers. If these protectionist policies continue, we may not be able to expand our export activities at the rate we currently expect, or at all, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Also, if new trade barriers are established in our key export markets, we may face difficulties in reallocating our products to other markets on favorable terms, and our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Fire and other disasters could affect our agricultural and manufacturing properties, which would adversely affect our production volumes and, consequently, financial performance. Our operations will be subject to risks affecting our agricultural properties and facilities, including fire potentially destroying some or our entire yield and facilities. In addition, our operations are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture of inflammable products and transportation of feed stocks and inflammable products. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to provide full protection against these types of casualties. Disease and pestilence may strike our crops which may result in destruction of a significant portion of our harvest. Crop disease and pestilence can occur from time to time and have a devastating effect on our crops, potentially rendering useless or unusable all or a substantial portion of affected harvests. Even when only a portion of the crop is damaged, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected because we may have incurred a substantial portion of the production cost for the related harvest. The cost of treatment of crop disease tends to be high. Any serious incidents of crop disease or pestilence, and related costs, may adversely affect our production levels and, as a result, our net sales and overall financial performance. Anticompetitive practices in the fuel and lubricants distribution market may distort market prices. In the last few years, anticompetitive practices have been one of the main problems affecting fuel distributors in Brazil. Generally these practices have involved a combination of tax evasion and fuel adulteration, such as the dilution of gasoline by mixing solvents or adding anhydrous ethanol in an amount greater than the 25% permitted by applicable law (the overall taxation of anhydrous ethanol is lower than hydrated ethanol and gasoline). Taxes constitute a significant portion of the cost of fuels sold in Brazil. For this reason, tax evasion on the part of some fuel distributors has been prevalent, allowing them to lower the prices they charge. These practices have enabled certain distributors to supply large quantities of fuel products at prices lower than those offered by the major distributors, including us, which has resulted in a considerable increase in the sales volumes of the distributors who have adopted these practices. The final prices for fuels are calculated based on the taxes levied on their purchase and sale, among others factors. As a result, anticompetitive practices as such tax evasion may affect our sales volume, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. If such practices become more prevalent, it could lead to lower prices or reduced margins for the products we sell, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Petrobras is our principal supplier of our base oils and of our fuel distribution business unit. Significant disruption to our fuels and lubricant sales may occur, in the event of an interruption of supply from Petrobras. Any interruption would immediately affect our ability to provide fuel and lubricant products to our customers. If we are not able to obtain an adequate supply of fuel and base oil products from Petrobras under acceptable terms, we may seek to meet our demands through purchases on the international market. The cost of fuel and base oil products on the international market may be more expensive than the price we obtain through Petrobras. The production of lubricants and the storage and transportation of fuel products, lubricant products are inherently hazardous. The complex manufacturing operations we perform at our Lubricants Oil Blending Plant, or LOBP, involve a variety of safety and other operating risks, including the handling, production, storage and transportation of toxic materials. These risks could result in personal injury and death, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage. A material accident at one of our plants, service stations or storage facilities could force us to suspend our operations and result in significant remediation costs and lost revenue. In addition, insurance proceeds, if available, may not be received on a timely basis and may be insufficient to cover all losses, including lost profit. Equipment breakdowns, natural disasters, and delays in obtaining supplies or required replacement parts or equipment could also materially adversely affect our manufacturing operations and consequently our results of operations. We may not be able to maintain rights to use blending formulas and brands supplied by ExxonMobil. We, through our subsidiary CLE (previously CCL) are the exclusive manufacturer and distributor of lubricants products in Brazil based on formulas provided to us under a license from ExxonMobil under the Master Lubricants Agreement, which expires on December 1, 2018. We have also been granted a license to use the ExxonMobil brand to market fuels under the Fuels Trademark License Agreement, which expires on December 1, 2013. The 13 Table of Contents termination or failure to renew any of these licenses, or the failure by ExxonMobil to adequately maintain and protect its intellectual property rights, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or could require significant unplanned investments by us if we are forced to develop or acquire alternative technology. In the future, it may be necessary or desirable to obtain other third-party technology licenses relating to one or more of our products or relating to current or future technologies to enhance our product offerings. However, we may not be able to obtain licensing rights to the needed technology or components on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our subsidiary’s port concession is subject to termination by the granting authority. We own and operate a sugar-loading terminal at the Port of Santos in the State of São Paulo through our subsidiary Rumo Logística S.A., or “Rumo Logística.” This port terminal is a result of the association of two previous terminals, Cosan Operadora Portuária S.A., or “Cosan Portuária,” and Teaçu Armazéns Gerais S.A., or “Teaçu” (previously owned by Nova América). The close proximity of our mills to the port enables us to benefit from lower transportation costs. Pursuant to the port concession agreement with the State of São Paulo’s Port Authority (Companhia de Docas do Estado de São Paulo – CODESP), or “CODESP,” Cosan Portuária’s concession to operate this terminal will expire on 2016, and it may be renewed for an additional 20 years if Cosan Portuária meets its obligations under the port concession agreement. We are already discussing with the CODESP the renewal of this concession, but we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to renew the concession at all or on favorable terms. The South Terminal concession (formerly Teaçu) was initially scheduled to expire in 2016, but has been extended until 2036. All port concessions may be unilaterally terminated by the granting authority prior to that time upon: · expropriation of the port concession in the public interest; · default by Rumo Logística in the performance of its obligations under the port concession agreement, including the payment of concession fees or failure to comply with other legal and regulatory obligations; · Rumo Logística’s failure to comply with determinations by the granting authority; or · bankruptcy or dissolution of Rumo Logística. Termination of the port concession agreement may adversely impact our transportation costs and the turn-around time for the export of our products as well as our revenues from service agreements related to our port facilities. Our subsidiary Rumo Logística may not obtain the expected return on its contracts with ALL América Latina Logística S.A.. Our subsidiary Rumo Logística entered into long term contracts with ALL – América Latina Logística S.A., or “ALL,” providing that Rumo Logística will make investments to expand ALL’s rail transport capacity in exchange for ALL transporting raw sugar and other derivatives. The contracts provide that Rumo Logística will invest approximately R$1.3 billion as of March 31, 2012 the remain balances amount of R$ 535.7 million in a rail transport system, to be supported by ALL’s operations, with investments in (1) the duplication, expansion and improvements to the railway line and the yards in the Bauru-Santos/São Paulo railway corridor, sharply increasing its operating capacity; (2) the acquisition of locomotives and hopper railcars; and (3) the construction and expansion of terminals. In return, ALL will provide transport services, guaranteeing (1) a minimum volume curve; (2) competitive tariffs in comparison with road transport; (3) management of locomotive and wagon suppliers; and (4) payment of rent on equipment in proportion to the actual volume of the product transported. In the event Rumo Logística is not able to originate the volume of sugar to the transported, we may not receive the contractual fees, which could impact negatively the return of invested capital. The expansion of our business through acquisitions and strategic alliances creates risks that may reduce the benefits we anticipate from these transactions. We have grown substantially through acquisitions. We plan to continue to acquire, from time to time, other ethanol or sugar producers or facilities in Brazil or elsewhere that complement or expand our sugar and ethanol existing operations. Moreover, we plan to acquire and build, from time to time, fuel terminals, lubricant production assets, retail distribution stations and other assets that complement and expand our fuel and lubricants existing 14 Table of Contents operations and also intend to expand our network of service stations through increased branding. We also may enter into strategic alliances to increase our competitiveness. However, our management is unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisitions or strategic alliances will occur, or the likelihood of any particular transaction being completed on favorable terms and conditions. Our ability to continue to expand our business through acquisitions or alliances depends on many factors, including our ability to identify acquisitions or access capital markets on acceptable terms. Even if we are able to identify acquisition targets and obtain the necessary financing to make these acquisitions, we could financially overextend ourselves, especially if an acquisition is followed by a period of lower than projected ethanol and sugar prices. Acquisitions, especially involving sizeable enterprises, may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing business and difficulties in integrating operations and personnel. Any failure by us to integrate new businesses or manage any new alliances successfully could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Some of our major competitors may be pursuing growth through acquisitions and alliances, which may reduce the likelihood that we will be successful in completing acquisitions and alliances. In addition, any major acquisition we consider may be subject to antitrust and other regulatory approvals. We may not be successful in obtaining required approvals on a timely basis or at all. Acquisitions also pose the risk that we may be exposed to successor liability relating to prior actions involving an acquired company, or contingent liabilities incurred before the acquisition. Due diligence conducted in connection with an acquisition, and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from sellers of acquired companies, may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. A material liability associated with an acquisition, such as labor- or environmental-related liabilities, could adversely affect our reputation and financial performance and reduce the benefits of the acquisition. We have recently concluded formation of our Joint Venture with Shell. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Principal Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations—Acquisitions, Partnerships and Corporate Restructuring.” We have also recently entered into agreements to acquire additional companies. See “