D. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Business of Bezeq Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Bezeq’s competition from other telecommunications providers, and potential changes in the competitive environment and communications technologies, could adversely affect its business and our results of operations. Competition in the voice, cellular and Internet services markets in Israel is intensifying. The main characteristic of market competition in 2011 was the continued consolidation of communication groups and their offering comprehensive service packages and products. As reflected in the following table, four main groups, consisting of companies under common or joint control, operate in the communications market in Israel today: the Bezeq Group, the IDB group, Partner Communications Company Ltd., or Partner, and HOT Telecom, or HOT, a cable communications company and together with Mirs Communications Ltd., or Mirs, the HOT-Mirs Group. Group Bezeq IDB Partner Hot – Mirs Activity Cellular telephony Pelephone Cellcom Partner Mirs Fixed-line telephony Bezeq Bezeq International Cellcom Netvision Partner 012 Smile HOT Telecom Internet services (fixed-line / cellular) Bezeq Pelephone Bezeq International Cellcom Netvision Partner 012 Smile HOT Telecom HOT-Net International calls Bezeq International Netvision 012 Smile - Multi-channel television DBS - - HOT Broadcasts While in the past the competition in the communications market was mainly among independent communications services providers in each segment separately, more recently and especially in the last year, the trend has reflected increased competition among communications groups. In some cases, the groups operate on the basis of marketing cooperation among the various communications providers in the group so as to provide comprehensive communications services, utilizing the marketing and operational advantage inherent in such a structure, while in other cases where there is no cooperation of this kind at present, there is likely to be cooperation in the future in view of the control links between the companies and the changing regulatory policy affecting the industry. - 5 - Another recent development is an increase in the consumption of "service packages” (packages containing various communications services such as telephony, Internet and broadcast services). This trend is strengthening with the transition to technologies based on IP protocol, which promotes technology convergence between the different communications systems and with the start of penetration of integrated products enabling various communications solutions on the same communications device (e.g. cellular and fixed-line telephony services in one handset). Communications groups market, or are likely to market in the future, joint service packages consisting of different communications services of the companies in each group. As a rule, the marketing of the joint service packages enables the communications group to offer its customers tariffs that are more attractive than purchasing each service separately (in some cases with "cross-subsidization" among the components of the packages), and a comprehensive solution that does away with the need to subscribe to a number of different providers. We believe that the Bezeq Group is subject to stricter limitations than those which apply to the other communications groups, including among other things structural separation limitations and a limitation on marketing "joint" service packages. During 2011, a tender was issued to grant frequencies and licenses for cellular operators that own infrastructure. The tender was awarded to Mirs (part of the HOT-Mirs Group) and Golan Telecom Ltd., or Golan. Under the tender conditions, the winners will be able to launch their activity after they have deployed a cellular network that initially covers 10% of the population of the State of Israel. Following this deployment, the new operators will be able to utilize the existing operator networks for a period of up to 7 years (with a possible extension based on approval for three more years), and based on the national roaming model. Another characteristic of market competition in 2011 was the continued actions to promote the entry of mobile virtual network operators, or MVNOs, into Israel’s cellular market. During 2010 and 2011, several licenses were issued to MVNOs. To date, Rami Levi Cellular Communications Ltd. is the only new cellular operator to have commenced operations. Pelephone signed agreements with two MVNOs, including Rami Levi Cellular Communications Ltd., that will enable the MVNOs to use Pelephone’s infrastructure and network in order to service their customers and operation. Pelephone anticipates that the entry of the new operators will intensify competition in the cellular market. In October 2011, the Hayek Committee, a committee appointed by the Israeli Ministers of Communications and Finance, published its final report relating to significant regulatory aspects affecting the Israeli communications market. If the recommendations are adopted, they may have a significant influence on competition in the markets in which the Bezeq Group operates. Bezeq operates in a highly regulated telecommunications market which limits its flexibility in managing its business and may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Bezeq operates in a highly regulated industry in Israel, which limits its flexibility in managing its business, mainly with respect to the land-line market. Bezeq is subject to government supervision and regulation relating to, among other things, licensing for activity, determining permitted areas of activity, determining tariffs, operation, competition, environment, payment of royalties, obligation to provide universal service, ability to hold its shares, relationships between Bezeq and its subsidiaries and prohibition to terminate or restrict its services (which may force Bezeq to provide services even when not economically feasible). This supervision and regulation at times lead to the intervention of the State of Israel. Bezeq’s business and operations could be adversely affected by decisions by regulators, in particular the Ministry of Communications as well as changes in laws, regulations or government policy affecting its business activities. Further risks and uncertainties result from the fact that changes in such laws, regulations or government policies may not be adopted or implemented in the manner that Bezeq expects and may be further amended, interpreted or enforced in an unexpected manner or in a manner adverse to Bezeq’s business and results of operations. Bezeq may face difficulties in obtaining some of the building and environmental permits required for the establishment and operation of its network sites, which could have an adverse effect on the coverage, quality and capacity of its network. Bezeq, mainly with respect to its Pelephone cellular operations, is subject to the Israeli Non-Ionizing Radiation Law, 5766-2006, or the Radiation Law, which regulates the emission of electromagnetic radiation from broadcast facilities. The Radiation Law prohibits, among other things, the erection or operation of a source of radiation in contravention of any applicable permit and the erection or operation of a source of radiation without a permit. After receiving a written warning from the authorities, failure to remedy a violation will subject the permit holder to criminal prosecution on a strict liability basis. Pelephone is currently working to obtain permits to set up and operate its various broadcasting installations; however, the policies maintained by the various relevant entities and amendments to applicable statutes and standards could adversely impact the infrastructure of such installations and the regularity of the services using the infrastructure. As a result, Bezeq’s revenues from these services could be adversely affected. - 6 - In addition, the establishment and operation of cellular antennas are subject to building permits from various planning and building committees, a process that involves a number of approvals from Israeli state entities and regulatory bodies. The foregoing may impair the quality and capacity of Bezeq’s and Pelephone’s existing networks and the deployment of new networks. Actual and alleged health risks related to cellular network sites and mobile telecommunication devices could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. Cellular network sites, handsets and accessories are known to be sources of non-ionizing radiation emissions. Pelephone takes steps to ensure that the levels of radiation emitted by these transmission facilities, equipment and devices do not exceed the levels of radiation permitted in the directives of the Israeli Ministry of Environment Protection (levels adopted in accordance with international standards). However, health risks may be found to exist and transmission sites or devices and equipment may emit more radiation than that allowed in radiation standards, causing a risk to health, which may have an adverse effect on our business and could result in a reduction in the use of cellular services, difficulty in renting sites, claims for physical and property damages in substantial amounts and attempts to exercise the deeds of indemnity that Pelephone deposited with the planning authorities pursuant to the Planning and Building Law. Pelephone’s third-party liability policy does not currently cover electromagnetic radiation. Bezeq’s tariffs for its services are subject to government control, which harms its ability to compete and results in an erosion of its tariffs, which adversely affects its business. Bezeq’s tariffs for its services are subject to government control. Some of these tariffs are stipulated in regulations and these regulations also stipulate a formula for updating tariffs. Bezeq is restricted in its ability to give discounts on its principal services and to offer differential tariffs. Further, alternative payment packages, which should provide an immediate alternative to the regulated tariffs, are currently subject to certain conditions which often render the alternative payment package option moot. The foregoing factors harm Bezeq’s ability to compete and results in an erosion of its tariffs, which adversely impacts its business. On March 28, 2010, the Ministries of Communications and Finance announced the appointment of the Hayek Committee that was tasked with considering a new tariff arrangement for Bezeq, including determining new tariffs relating to the provision of services in the wholesale market for fixed-line communications (including resale and the provision of access to infrastructure) and call completion tariffs in the fixed-line networks. On October 4, 2011, the Hayek Committee published its report including final recommendations. The committee's recommendations are subject to the approval of the Ministers of Communications and Finance, and, if adopted, they may have a significant influence on the markets in which the Bezeq Group operates. Bezeq is subject to restrictions on intercompany relations with affiliated companies, which harms its ability to compete and adversely affects its business. Bezeq’s general license for fixed-line communication services obligates it to ensure that its relationships with its principal subsidiaries do not result in favoring them over their competitors. Bezeq is also subject to various limitations as a result of its declaration as a monopoly in the fixed line services business, as well as limitations set forth in merger approvals granted by the Israeli Antitrust Commission. Separation is required between the managements of Bezeq and such other companies, as is separation between the financial and marketing systems, assets and employees, which causes high administration overheads. Bezeq is also subject to limitations with respect to the offering of joint service packages with those companies, which adversely impacts its business, particularly in light of the recent entry into the market of communications companies competing directly with Bezeq in most of its areas of operation based on the provision of bundled services to the customer. Natural disasters, terrorist attacks or breaches of network or information technology security could have an adverse effect on Bezeq’s business. Natural disasters, terrorist acts, acts of war, cyber attacks or other breaches of network or information technology (IT) security may cause equipment failures or disrupt Bezeq’s systems and operations. While we maintain insurance coverage for some of these events, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. Our inability to operate our facilities as a result of such events, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses and/or loss of market share to other telecommunications providers. In addition, a failure to protect the privacy of customer and employee confidential data against breaches of network or IT security could result in damage to Bezeq’s reputation. Any of these occurrences could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. - 7 - Bezeq’s systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption, which could expose it to material risk of loss or litigation. Bezeq provides services using various infrastructure systems that include, exchanges, transmission, data communication and access systems, cables and computerized systems. Some of Bezeq's systems have backup, but nevertheless, damage to some or all of these systems, whether due to a technical fault or natural disaster, could cause extreme difficulties in providing service, including if Bezeq is unable to repair the systems. Bezeq is currently deploying its next generation network, which to a large extent will replace its traditional networks. The set-up of a new network based on advanced technology involves operational and business risks, such as damaging the continuity and quality of the services provided to Bezeq’s customers, which could adversely impact its business. Pelephone’s operations in the cellular market are exposed to losses in the event of malfunctions in the terminal equipment that it sells, including various property risks and liabilities. Pelephone’s cellular information systems are networked throughout the country through designated communications lines and via the Internet, and its cellular business is highly dependent upon these systems. Wide-scale malicious harm or malfunction might adversely affect Pelephone’s cellular business and financial results. Also, Pelephone’s cellular communications network is deployed around the country through network core sites and antenna sites and it cellular business is totally dependent upon these systems. Damage caused by natural or other disasters, war or damage to the switching farm and/or servers used by Pelephone for its core cellular activities could have an adverse effect on its business and results of operations. Pelephone’s cellular business uses two frequency ranges: 850 MHz and 2100 MHz. These frequencies are exposed to interruptions and could impair service quality of the networks that it operates. Pelephone’s assigned frequency may not easily support the implementation of new technologies, which could have an adverse effect on Pelephone’s competitive position in the cellular market. In certain situations the 850 MHz frequency available to Pelephone may not easily support the implementation of new technologies emerging in the cellular communication sector, which could make it difficult for Pelephone to implement them. This would have an adverse effect on Pelephone's competitive status, since the other licensees have other frequencies available to them, some of which may support those technologies, while obtaining new frequencies may be difficult. Furthermore, Pelephone’s frequencies are exposed to interference and could impair service quality of networks operated by Pelephone. The factors that could cause interference include among other things, the fact that the 850 MHz frequency is also used for terrestrial television broadcasts, and by television stations broadcasting in the Middle East (mainly in Cyprus), which use could cause interference in Pelephone’s 850 MHz EVDO/XRTT1 and UMTS/HSPA networks. Bezeq and its subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings, which could result in them being ordered to pay significant sums. Bezeq and its subsidiaries are parties legal proceedings, including class actions, which could result in them being ordered to pay significant sums, the amount of which cannot be estimated. Class action claims can reach large amounts, as virtually all residents of Israel are consumers of Bezeq’s services and a claim that relates to a minor loss for a single consumer can become a material claim for Bezeq if it is certified as a class action applicable to all consumers or a significant portion of them. In addition, since Bezeq provides communications infrastructure as well as billing services to other licensees, parties suing those licensees in other class actions may also try to involve Bezeq as a party to such proceedings. The market in which Bezeq operates is characterized by material capital investments in infrastructure and subscriber equipment and changing technology, which imposes a heavy financial burden on Bezeq. The market in which Bezeq operates is characterized by material capital investments in infrastructure and subscriber equipment and changing technology. The frequent technological changes in infrastructure and terminal equipment and the intense competition in various market segments impose a heavy financial burden on the companies operating in the market, requiring them to update their infrastructure technology from time to time or to introduce new devices into the market at heavy cost. The development of new technologies can render existing technologies obsolete, resulting in the need for large monetary investments in order to retain a competitive position. Bezeq’s future success will depend on its ability to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new infrastructure and subscriber equipment that keep pace with technological developments. If Bezeq is unable to respond promptly and effectively to changing technology, it will be unable to compete effectively in the future and its business could be adversely affected. - 8 - Bezeq’s results of operations are subject to market risks such as currency fluctuations, inflation in Israel and the financial condition of the market in Israel and worldwide. Bezeq’s results of operations are subject to market risks such as currency fluctuations, inflation in Israel and the financial condition of the market in Israel and worldwide. Bezeq measures exposure to changes in exchange rates and inflation by the surplus or deficit of assets against liabilities, based on the type of linkage. In addition, Bezeq’s exposure to inflation changes in Israel is high. In addition, Bezeq has exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relating to its borrowings. Bezeq collects payments from some of its customers in foreign currency, primarily U.S. dollars. In addition, Bezeq consumes services from suppliers outside Israel and pays for these services in foreign currency, primarily U.S. dollars. Changes in the exchange rates of the currencies in which Bezeq operates, primarily the NIS against the U.S. dollar, could have an adverse effect on Bezeq’s cash flow and profitability. Market and financial stability and the strength of the economy in Israel and worldwide have recently been subject to great volatility and led to a global economic slowdown. Although global economic conditions have begun to stabilize or improve, if the local market weakens, Bezeq’s business results could be harmed and its revenues may decline. Risks Related to Our Company We have a substantial amount of existing debt, which could restrict our financing and operating flexibility and have other adverse consequences; our ability to repay our debt may be affected by Bezeq’s distribution policy and the amount of dividends we receive from Bezeq. To facilitate the funding of our acquisition of the controlling interest in Bezeq, we entered into two financing agreements under which we received loans in a total principal amount of NIS 5.1 billion, of which NIS 3 billion (approximately $1 billion) was outstanding at December 31, 2011. As of April 30, 2012, the financing agreements include certain financial covenants, including, among other things, the requirement that Bezeq maintain certain minimum shareholders equity and minimum ratio of shareholders’ equity. In addition, our wholly-owned subsidiary that directly holds the Bezeq interest must maintain a minimum ratio of debt to EBITDA and a debt service coverage ratio. The Bezeq shares we acquired and all of such subsidiary’s other rights and assets (except for the 29,662,168 ordinary shares of Bezeq that were acquired in 2011 and such additional Bezeq shares that we may acquire in the future) have been pledged to the lenders as security under the loan agreement. In addition, we have pledged to the lenders the entire equity we hold in the subsidiary we established to acquire the Bezeq shares and the debt owed by such subsidiary. Our ability to repay our debt may be affected by Bezeq’s distribution policy and the amount of dividends we receive from Bezeq. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or comply with our debt covenants, we could be forced to renegotiate or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. For more information regarding our debt instruments and our indebtedness, see Item 5.B “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our operating results may be adversely affected by significant fluctuations in the Israeli consumer price index and in interest rates. As the principal amount of, and interest that we pay on, certain of our debentures and a significant portion of our bank loans are linked to the Israeli Consumer Price Index, or CPI, or are subject to variable interest rate, any increase in the Israeli CPI or in the interest rate will increase our financial expenses and could adversely affect our results. In addition, Bezeq’s tariff updating mechanism, which is subject to government regulation, is reviewed once a year and is influenced by the CPI. As a result, the annual rate of inflation and its distribution during the year can have a material influence on the erosion of Bezeq’s tariffs and its revenues and expenses during the year. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates also relates to our investment in marketable securities. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest bearing securities carry a degree of interest rate risk. The market pricing for such fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future financial results may be negatively affected in the event that interest rates fluctuate. - 9 - If we, Internet Gold or any other member of the Eurocom group subject to the control permit for the acquisition of the controlling interest in Bezeq fails to comply with such permit or other regulatory provisions relating to the control of Bezeq, the control permit could be revoked and our rights with respect to our Bezeq interest would be adversely impacted, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial position. As part of our acquisition of the controlling interest in Bezeq, we, Internet Gold, SP2, our wholly-owned subsidiary that directly owns such subsidiary and other members of the Eurocom group were granted a permit to control Bezeq, pursuant to the Israeli Communications Law (Telecommunications and Broadcasting), 1982 or the Communications Law, the Communications Order (Determination of Essential Service Provided by “Bezeq” The Israel Telecommunication Corp. Limited), 5757-1997, or the Communications Order. The control permit includes several conditions, including, among others, the requirement that SP2 be controlled exclusively by the other parties to the control permit and that the parties to the control permit hold not less than 30% of any type of means of control of Bezeq and SP2. In February 2011, the Prime Minister and Minister of Communications gave approval for such holdings to reach 29% in the event of dilution resulting from the exercise of stock options by Bezeq employees, for a period of six months commencing from the date such holdings fall below 30%. In addition, the control permit requires that a certain percentage of SP2 be held at all times by an “Israeli Party,” as defined in the Communications Order. The control permit also includes certain notice requirements regarding changes in the composition of the board of directors and certain holdings in us and Internet Gold. If we, Internet Gold or any other member of the Eurocom group subject to the control permit fails to comply with the terms of the control permit or with other regulatory provisions relating to the control of Bezeq, such permit could be revoked and our rights with respect to our Bezeq interest would be adversely impacted, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial position. If we do not maintain control of Bezeq we may be deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the Investment Company Act, defines an investment company as any issuer that is, holds itself out as being, or proposes to be, primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities and Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire “investment securities” (within the meaning of the Investment Company Act) having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer’s total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. However, an issuer will be deemed not to be an investment company if no more than 45% of the value of such issuer’s total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) consists of, and no more than 45% of such issuer’s net income after taxes (for the last four fiscal quarters combined) is derived from, securities other than, among other things, securities issued by companies which are controlled primarily by such issuer. Primary control is presumed if the issuer owns over 25% of the controlled company’s voting securities and the issuer has control greater than that of any other person. Accordingly, so long as we maintain control of Bezeq, we will not be deemed an investment company. If we were to no longer maintain the control of Bezeq, we could, among other things, be required either (i) to change substantially the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being subject to the Investment Company Act or (ii) to register as an investment company. An investment company that is organized under the laws of a foreign country may not register as an investment company, or publicly offer its securities through interstate commerce in the United States, unless the company applies to the Securities and Exchange Commission for an order permitting the company to register under the Investment Company Act, and to make a public offering in the United States. The Securities and Exchange Commission may issue an order granting the application if it finds that, by reason of special circumstances or arrangements, it is both legally and practically feasible effectively to enforce the provisions of the Investment Company Act against the issuer, and further finds that granting the application is otherwise consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors. If we were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with certain affiliates, reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements, and meeting these requirements would be costly, if at all possible. - 10 - We may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its combined subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm must issue an attestation report on our internal control procedures, and our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are relatively new and complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. Beginning in the 2010 second quarter, we began consolidating Bezeq’s financials results into our financial statements following our acquisition of the controlling interest in Bezeq. Effective for the year ended December 31, 2011, our management report on internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm’s attestation report must include an assessment with respect to Bezeq’s internal control over financial reporting. Prior to our acquisition of the controlling interest, Bezeq was not subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may in the future identify a material weakness in Bezeq’s internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our ordinary shares. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Internet Gold and Eurocom Communications Ltd. Because Internet Gold and Eurocom Communications control substantially all the voting power of our ordinary shares, investors will not be able to affect the outcome of all shareholder votes. Internet Gold owned approximately 79.94% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of April 30, 2012. Mr. Shaul Elovitch, the chairman of our board of directors and the chairman of the board of directors of Internet Gold and its parent, Eurocom Communications, and the controlling shareholder of Eurocom Communications, will be able to exercise control over our operations and business strategy and control the outcome of all matters involving shareholder approval. For as long as Internet Gold has a controlling interest in our company, it, Eurocom Communications and Mr. Elovitch indirectly, will have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to potential mergers or other business combinations involving us, our acquisition or disposition of assets, our incurrence of indebtedness, our issuance of any additional ordinary shares or other equity securities, our repurchase or redemption of ordinary shares and our payment of dividends. Similarly, as long as Eurocom Communications has a controlling interest in Internet Gold, our corporate parent, Eurocom Communications and Mr. Elovitch will have the power to determine or significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the power to elect all of the members of our board of directors (except outside directors, within the meaning of Israeli law), prevent an acquisition or any other change in control of us. Because the interests of Internet Gold and Mr. Elovitch may differ from the interests of our other shareholders, actions taken by Internet Gold with respect to us may not be favorable to our other shareholders. See Item 10B. “Additional Information - Memorandum and Articles of Association” and Item 7B. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions - Related Party Transactions.” Conflicts of interest may arise between Internet Gold, Eurocom Communications, other companies within the Eurocom group and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us and result in reduced revenues and income. Conflicts of interest may arise between Internet Gold, Eurocom Communications and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Areas in which conflicts of interest between Internet Gold, Eurocom Communications and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: · Cross officerships, directorships and share ownership. The ownership interests of our directors in the ordinary shares of Internet Gold could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by Internet Gold and Eurocom Communications, disagreements over the desirability of a potential acquisition opportunity or employee retention or recruiting. In addition, Internet Gold may take an opportunity for itself or preclude us from taking advantage of a corporate opportunity; and - 11 - · Intercompany transactions. From time to time, Internet Gold, Eurocom Communications or other companies within the Eurocom group may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of such companies and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of our independent directors or a committee of disinterested directors and in some instances a vote of shareholders, the terms of any such transactions may not be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm’s-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been volatile and may decline in the future. The market price of our ordinary shares has been subject to significant price movements and could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: ● Quarterly variations in our operating results; ● Global economic conditions; ● Price movements in the market price of Bezeq’s ordinary shares; ● Operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; ● Changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; ● Regulatory changes that impact pricing of services and competition in Bezeq’s markets; ● Changes in market valuations of other communications companies; ● Announcements of technological innovations or new services by Bezeq or its competitors; ● Announcements by Bezeq or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ● Changes in the status of Bezeq’s intellectual property rights; ● Announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us or Bezeq; ● Additions or departures of key personnel; ● Future sales of our ordinary shares; and ● Stock market price and volume fluctuations. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We have never paid cash dividends to our shareholders and have not adopted a dividend distribution policy. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares and have not adopted a dividend distribution policy. Our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, SP2, which directly holds Bezeq’s shares and our principal source of revenues and income, is subject to limitations on the payment of dividends under the terms of the financing agreements entered into in connection with its acquisition of the controlling interest in Bezeq. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investments. We may in the future be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which will subject our U.S. investors to adverse tax rules. There is a risk that we may be treated in the future as a “passive foreign investment company.” Our treatment as a passive foreign investment company could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the U.S. holders of our ordinary shares may cause a reduction in the value of such shares. A foreign corporation will be treated as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income,” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s gross assets produce, or are held for the production of, such types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property; and cash is considered to be an asset that produces passive income. If we are classified in the future as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. shareholders owning ordinary shares. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. United States residents should carefully read “Item 10E. Additional Information - Taxation, United States Federal Income Tax Consequences” for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares. - 12 - Risks Related to the Operations of Bezeq and Our Company in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. We and Bezeq are incorporated and based in the State of Israel and Bezeq derives substantially all of its revenues from markets within the State of Israel. As a result, political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. In recent years, there was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. Also, during 2011, riots and uprisings in several countries in the Middle East and neighboring regions have led to severe political instability in several neighboring states and to a decline in the regional security situation. Such instability may affect the local and global economy, could negatively affect business conditions and, therefore, could adversely affect our operations. To date, these matters have not had any material effect on our business and results of operations; however, the regional security situation and worldwide perceptions of it are outside our control and there can be no assurance that these matters will not negatively affect us in the future. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians as well as tension between Israel and other countries in the Middle East may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of Bezeq’s and our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Bezeq’s operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of its executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in Bezeq’s operations could adversely affect its business. Bezeq may be restricted in the conduct of its operations during periods of national emergency, which could negatively affect its business operations. During periods of national emergency, the Minister of Communications and other governmental authorities may issue various instructions regarding the use of Bezeq’s network, including the use of the network by the Israeli security forces. In addition, the Israeli Equipment Registration and IDF Mobilization Law, 1987 permits the registration, taking and use of engineering equipment and facilities by Israel’s Defense Forces. These actions could adversely affect Bezeq’s business operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by significant fluctuations of the NIS against foreign currencies. We report our financial results in NIS. Bezeq receives payments in NIS for most of its sales. As a result, fluctuations in rates of exchange between NIS and the U.S. dollar may affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, when the Israeli inflation rate exceeds the rate of the NIS depreciation against foreign currencies, some of our NIS expenses increase to the extent of the difference between the rates. A significant disparity of this kind may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. - 13 - From time to time, the Bezeq Group engages in currency hedging transactions to reduce the impact on its cash flows and results of operations of currency fluctuations. The Bezeq Group recognizes freestanding derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities in the statements of financial position and it measures those instruments at fair value. However, accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument, such as a currency hedging instrument, depends on the intended use of the derivative instrument and the resulting designation. For derivative instruments that are not designated as cash flow hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in our income statement without any reference to the change in value of the related budgeted expenditures. These differences could result in fluctuations in our reported net income on a quarterly basis. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we may follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, the composition of the board of directors, compensation of officers, director nomination process and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow home country practice instead of the NASDAQ requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. Our shareholders generally may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us, our executive officers and directors and some of the experts named in this annual report, or asserting U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel and all of our executive officers and directors named in this annual report reside outside the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, all of our assets and most of the assets of our executive officers and directors and some of the experts named in this annual report are located outside the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Provisions of Israeli law, the licenses of Bezeq and our articles of association may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Following our acquisition of the controlling interest in Bezeq, we and our shareholders are required to comply with the Communications Law, the Communications Order and regulations promulgated by the Ministry of Communications. Pursuant to the Communications Order, we were required to obtain the prior written consent of the Prime Minister of Israel and the Israeli Minister of Communications in order to acquire the controlling interest in Bezeq. Under the Communications Order, no person may acquire, directly or indirectly, the ability to exercise “significant influence” over Bezeq or 5% or more of any particular class of means of control in Bezeq, nor may any person, together with any other person, appoint the general manager of Bezeq or cause the election or appointment of any director of Bezeq, without the prior written consent of the Prime Minister of Israel and the Israeli Minister of Communications. Subject to certain exceptions, prior written approval of such Ministers is also required to increase the holdings or other rights in excess of those determined in the initial approval, including by means of an agreement (including a voting agreement). Furthermore, under the Communications Order, no person may transfer control, “significant influence” or means of control in Bezeq to another, if, as a result of the transfer, the holdings of the transferee would require approval pursuant to the Communications Law or Communications Order and the transferee is not in possession of the requisite approval. For the foregoing purposes, “significant influence” means the ability to significantly influence the activity of a corporation, whether alone or together with or through others, directly or indirectly, as a result of holding means of control in that corporation or in another corporation, including ability derived from the corporation’s articles of association, a written, oral or other kind of agreement, or from any other source, excluding solely as a result of the performance of an office holder’s duties in the corporation. In this context, holding 25% of our means of control is presumed to confer significant influence. ”Means of control” means the right to vote at a general meeting of the company, to appoint a director or general manager of the company, to participate in the profits of the company or a share of the remaining assets of the company after payment of its debts upon liquidation. - 14 - Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders, including Israeli shareholders and shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are restricted. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when the time expires, tax then becomes payable even if no actual disposition of the shares has occurred. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. For additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law, see “Item 6C. Directors, Senior Management and Employees –Board Practices – Approval of Related Party Transactions under Israeli Law” and Item 10E. “Taxation -Israeli Tax Considerations.” The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from those under Delaware law. Because we are an Israeli company, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in a Delaware corporation. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his, her or its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable to shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness towards the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revisions in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. 