Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownerhship of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules SIGNATURES -- -2- Table of Contents PART I FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS In addition to historical information, this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference herein may contain forward-looking statements that are not based on historical fact. When used in this report, words such as “expects”, “anticipates”, “believes”, “seeks”, “estimates”, “plans”, “intends” and similar words identify forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Although such statements are based on management’s current estimates and expectations and currently available competitive, financial and economic data, forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from what may be inferred from the forward-looking statements. Some of the factors that could cause or contribute to such differences are listed and discussed in Item 1A “Risk Factors”, below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions or updates to any forward-looking statements that are contained in this document. Item 1. BUSINESS General We are a leading marine specialty contractor serving the heavy civil marine infrastructure market. We provide a broad range of marine construction services on, over and under the water along the Gulf Coast, the Atlantic Seaboard and in the Caribbean Basin. Our customers are federal, state and municipal governments as well as private commercial and industrial enterprises. History We were founded in 1994 as a marine construction project management business. Initially, we performed work along the continental Unites States coastline, as well as in Alaska, Hawaii and the Caribbean Basin. In 1997 we expanded beyond the project management business, established fixed geographic operating bases and made four acquisitions between 1997 and 2003. In 2004, we were acquired by Orion Marine Group, Inc. (formerly known as Hunter Acquisition Corp., a corporation formed and controlled by our former principal stockholders) and we incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware. In March and April 2007, we revised our subsidiary and holding company structure and completed a Rule 144A Private Placement common stock offering. In August 2007, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1 seeking registration of shares of common stock held by the selling shareholders therein identified, which became effective in December 2007. The common stock of Orion Marine Group, Inc. commenced trading publicly on December 20, 2007 and is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol OMGI. On February 29, 2008, a newly-formed, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement to purchase substantially all of the assets (excepting certain current assets) of Orlando, Florida-based Subaqueous Services, Inc. (“SSI”), for a purchase price of $35 million (the “SSI Transaction”), which is discussed in further detail in Note 4 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to “Orion”, the “Company”, the “Registrant”, “we”, “us” or “our” refer to Orion Marine Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Business Strategy General We pursue the following business strategies in order to improve our business and prospects, increase our revenue and profitability and, ultimately, enhance stockholder value: Expand and Fill in Our Service Territory We grow our business by seeking opportunities in other geographic markets by establishing a physical presence in new areas through selective acquisitions or greenfield expansions. -3- Table of Contents Pursue Strategic Acquisitions We evaluate acquisition opportunities in parallel with our greenfield expansion. Our strategy will include timely and efficient integration of such acquisitions into our culture, bidding process and internal controls. We believe that attractive acquisition candidates are available due to the highly fragmented and regional nature of the industry, high cost of capital for equipment and the desire for liquidity among an aging group of existing business owners. We believe our financial strength, industry expertise and experienced management team will be attractive to acquisition candidates. Continue to Capitalize on Favorable Long-Term Industry Trends Our growth has been driven by our ability to capitalize on increased infrastructure spending across multiple end-markets we serve including port infrastructure, government funded projects, transportation, oil and gas, and environmental restoration markets. Continue to Reinvest in our Core Business Since our inception, we have focused on pursuing technically complex projects where our specialized services and equipment differentiate us from our competitors. We intend to continue to grow our fleet through the purchase and development of equipment. Financial Information About Segments Although we describe our business in this report in terms of the services we provide, our base of customers and the geographic areas in which we operate, we have concluded that our operations comprise one reportable segment pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131 – Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information. In making this determination, we considered that each project has similar characteristics, includes similar services, has similar types of customers and is subject to the same regulatory environment. We organize, evaluate and manage our financial information around each project when making operating decisions and assessing our overall performance. Services Provided We act as a single-source, turnkey solution for our customers’ marine contracting needs. We provide a broad range of heavy civil marine construction services. In addition, we provide dredging, repair and maintenance, and other specialty services. Many of our contracts encompass multiple services within a single project. Marine Construction Services These services include construction of marine transportation facilities, marine pipelines, bridges and causeways, and marine environmental structures. We generally serve as the prime contractor for many of these types of projects and we have the capability of providing design-build services. Marine transportation facility construction projects include public port facilities for container ship loading and unloading; cruise ship port facilities; private terminals; special-use Navy terminals, recreational use marinas and docks, and other marine-based facilities. These projects typically consist of steel or concrete fabrication dock or mooring structures designed for durability and longevity, and involve driving piles of concrete, pipe or sheet pile up to 90 feet below the surface to provide a foundation for the port facility that we subsequently construct on the piles. We also provide on-going maintenance and repair, as well as inspection services and emergency repair, and demolition and salvage to such facilities. Our marine pipeline service projects generally include the installation and removal of underwater buried pipeline transmission lines; installation of pipeline intakes and outfalls for industrial facilities; construction of pipeline outfalls for wastewater and industrial discharges; river crossing and directional drilling; creation of hot taps and tie-ins; and inspection, maintenance and repair services. -4- Table of Contents Our bridge and causeway projects include the construction, repair and maintenance of all types of bridges and causeways, as well as the development of fendering systems over marine environments, and we serve as the prime contractor for many of these projects, some of which may be design-build contracts. These projects involve fabricating steel or concrete structures designed for durability and longevity, and involve driving piles of concrete, pipe or sheet pile to create support for the concrete deck roadways that we subsequently construct on the piles. These piles can exceed 50 inches in diameter, can range up to 170 feet in overall length, and are often driven 90 feet into the sea floor. We also provide ongoing maintenance and repair, as well as emergency repair, to bridges, pile supports, and fendering systems for bridges. Marine environmental structure projects may include the installation of concrete mattresses to ensure erosion protection; construction of levees to contain environmental mitigation projects, and the installation of geotubes for wetlands and island creation. Such structures are used for erosion control, wetlands creation and environmental remediation. Dredging services Projects involving dredging generally enhance or preserve the navigability of waterways or the protection of shorelines through the removal or replenishment of soil, sand or rock. Dredging involves removing mud and silt from the channel floor by means of a mechanical backhoe, crane and bucket or cutter suction dredge and pipeline systems. Dredging is integral to capital and maintenance projects, including: maintenance for previously deepened waterways and harbors to remove silt, sand and other accumulated sediments; construction of breakwaters, jetties, canals and other marine structures; deepening ship channels and wharves to accommodate larger and deeper draft ships; containing erosion of wetlands and coastal marshes; land reclamation; and beach nourishment and creation of wildlife refuges. Maintenance dredging projects provide a source of recurring revenue as active channels typically require dredging every one to three years due to natural sedimentation. The frequency of maintenance dredging may be accelerated by rainfall and major weather events such as hurricanes. Areas where no natural deep water ports exist, such as the Texas Gulf Coast, require substantial maintenance dredging. We maintain multiple specialty dredges of various sizes and specifications to meet customer needs. Specialty Services Our specialty services include salvage, demolition, surveying, towing, diving and underwater inspection, excavation and repair. Our diving services are largely performed in shallow water with little to no visibility and include inspections, salvage and pile restoration and encapsulation. Our survey services include surveying pipelines and performing hydrographic surveys which determine the configuration of the floors of bodies of water and detect and identify wrecks and obstructions. Most of these specialty services support our other construction services and provide an incremental touch-point with our customers. Industry Overview Our services are provided to customers in diverse end markets, including port expansion and maintenance, bridges, causeways and other marine infrastructure, the cruise industry, the Department of Defense, the oil and gas industry, coastal protection and reclamation, along with hurricane restoration and repair and environmental remediation. We believe that this diversity in our customer base will enable us to utilize our resources to lessen the negative effects of any downturn in a specific end market. Port Expansion and Maintenance Ports and harbors are vital to trade for the U.S. economy, help position the U.S. as a leader in global trade and are essential to national security. We anticipate that U.S. ports will need to build larger dock space and deepen their channels to accommodate larger container, dry bulk and liquid cargo ships in order to remain globally competitive. Ports located on the Gulf Coast can also expect greater volume growth as the Panama Canal expansion projects should contribute to increased traffic of larger container ships from the Pacific Ocean bypassing Long Beach, California. As a part of our existing operations, we service most major ports across the Gulf Coast and Florida. We are also targeting growth along the Atlantic Seaboard where additional major ports, such as Savannah, Charleston and Norfolk, are located. -5- Table of Contents Bridge and Causeways According to the American Society of Civil Engineers, as of their 2009 report, 26% of the nation’s bridges are structurally deficient or functionally obsolete. As the system ages, the infrastructure cannot support the growing traffic loads, resulting in frequent delays for repairs. At the same time, the repairs become more expensive due to long-deferred maintenance. Legislation such as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 demonstrates the growing federal commitment to build, reconstruct and repair the U.S. transportation infrastructure and we expect that our core markets of the Gulf Coast and Atlantic Seaboard will benefit by higher transportation infrastructure spending. Marine Infrastructure The U.S. Marine Transportation System (“MTS”) consists of waterways, ports and their intermodal connections, vessels, vehicles, and system users, as well as shipyards and repair facilities crucial to maritime activity. Forty-one states, including all states east of the Mississippi River, and 16 state capitals are served by commercially navigable waterways. More than 1,000 harbor channels and 25,000 miles of inland, intracoastal and coastal waterways in the U.S. serve over 300 ports, with more than 3,700 terminals that support passenger and cargo movements. More than 95% of the overseas trade that comes in or out of the U.S. arrives by ship through the MTS. The MTS is primarily an aggregation of federal, state, local and privately owned facilities and private companies. U.S. inland and intracoastal waterways require substantial maintenance and improvement. While waterway usage is increasing, the facilities and supporting systems are aging. In addition, channels and waterways must maintain certain depths to accommodate ship and barge traffic. Natural sedimentation in these channels and waterways require maintenance dredging to maintain navigability. Cruise Industry An expected increase in ship size has generated a need for substantial port infrastructure development, including planning and construction of new terminals and facilities, as well as on-going maintenance and repair services. These larger vessels require development of new piers and additional dredging services to accommodate deeper drafts. Our service area includes the ports of Miami, Galveston, Tampa, New Orleans, Everglades and Canaveral, and the Caribbean Basin, which includes numerous cruise facilities and is the most popular cruise destination in the North American market. The Department of Defense The US Navy has the responsibility for the maintenance of 39 facilities in the United States, which includes a significant amount of marine infrastructure. In recent years, Department of Defense funding shifted away from naval base expansion, repair and maintenance. We believe that the US Navy is poised to resume a more normal flow of maintenance and upgrades to its infrastructure, including its marine facilities. The US Coast Guard maintains more than 50,000 federal aids to navigation, which include buoys, lighthouses, day beacons and radio-navigation signals, and additionally has oversight responsibility for over 18,000 highway and railroad bridges that span navigable waterways throughout the country. As part of the Department of Homeland Security, we anticipate that US Coast Guard needs for varied marine construction services will provide opportunities for us in the future. We anticipate that the continued implementation of the U.S. Base Realignment and Closure Program (“BRAC”), will shift emphasis towards improving domestic military infrastructure, including port and other facilities located on, or near, the water. This should result in the need for increased infrastructure at the realigned facilities where personnel and equipment will be moved from facilities targeted for closure. Oil and Gas Industry We construct, repair and remove underwater pipelines, and provide marine construction and on-going maintenance services for private refineries, terminal facilities and docks, and other critical near shore oil and gas infrastructure. -6- Table of Contents U.S. Coastal and Wetland Restoration and Reclamation We believe that increases in coastal population density and demographic trends will lead to an increase in the number of coastal restoration and reclamation projects, and, as the value of waterside assets rises from a residential and recreational standpoint, citizens and municipalities will do more to protect these assets via restoration and reclamation projects. Hurricane Restoration and Repair Hurricanes can be very destructive to the existing marine infrastructure and natural protection barriers of the prime storm territories of the Gulf Coast, the Atlantic Seaboard and the Caribbean Basin, including bridges, ports, underwater channels and sensitive coastal areas. Typically, restoration and repair opportunities continue for several years after a major hurricane event. These events provide incremental projects to our industry that contribute to a favorable bidding environment and high capacity utilization in our markets. Environmental Remediation We believe there will be contingency funding for the protection of natural habitats, environmental preservation, wetlands creation and remediation for high priority projects in Louisiana and other areas in the markets we serve that will protect and restore sensitive marine and coastal areas, advance ocean science and research, and ensure sustainable use of ocean resources. Competitive Strengths We believe we have the following competitive strengths: Breadth of Capabilities Unlike many of our competitors, we provide a broad range of marine construction services for our customers. These services include marine transportation facility construction, dredging, repair and maintenance, bridge building and marine pipeline construction, as well as specialty services. Our specialty services include salvage, demolition, diving and underwater inspection, excavation and repair. By offering a breadth of services, we act as a single-source provider with a turnkey solution for our customers’ marine contracting needs. We believe this distinguishes us from smaller, local competitors, giving us an advantage in competitive bidding for certain projects. Furthermore, we believe our broad service offering and ability to complete smaller projects strengthens our relationships with our customers. Experienced Management Team Our executive officers and senior project managers have an average of 29 years of experience in the heavy civil construction industry, an average of 27 years of experience in the heavy civil marine infrastructure industry, and an average of 19 years of experience with us and our predecessor companies. Our strong management team has driven operational excellence for us, as demonstrated by our high organic growth, disciplined bidding process, and what we believe to be leading industry margins. We believe our management has fostered a culture of loyalty, resulting in high employee retention rates. High Quality Fleet and Marine Maintenance Facilities We are capable of building, and have built, much of our highly specialized equipment and we provide maintenance and repair service to our entire fleet. During 2006 we manufactured a dredge, which can operate on either diesel fuel or electric power, allowing us to complete projects with specified limits on nitrogen oxide (NOX) emissions. Because some of our equipment operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week, it is essential that we are able to minimize equipment downtime. We achieve this by operating our own electrical and machine shops, stocking long-lead spares, and staffing maintenance teams on-call 24 hours a day, seven days a week to handle repair emergencies. We also own and maintain dry dock facilities, which reduce our equipment downtime and dependence on third party facilities. Our primary field offices in Channelview, Texas, Port Lavaca, Texas, Tampa, Florida, and Jacksonville, Florida, are all located on waterfront properties and allow us to perform repair and maintenance activities on our equipment and to mobilize and demobilize equipment to and from our projects in a cost efficient manner. -7- Table of Contents Financial Strength /Conservative Balance Sheet Financial strength is often an important consideration for many customers in selecting infrastructure contractors and directly affects our bonding capacity. In 2008, approximately 38% of our projects, measured by revenue, required some form of bonding. Most of our competitors are smaller, local companies with limited bonding capacity. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash on hand of $25.7 million. Our revenue increased by 24.5% from $210.4 million in 2007 to $261.8 million in 2008. We believe our financial strength and bonding capacity allow us to bid multiple projects and larger projects that most of our smaller competitors may not be able to bond. Self-Performance of Contracts In 2008, we self-performed approximately 88% of our marine construction and dredging projects, measured by cost, meaning that we performed the projects using our own employees and equipment instead of using external subcontractors. By self-performing our contracts, we believe we can more effectively manage the costs and quality of each of our projects, thereby better serving our customers and increasing our profitability. Our breadth of capabilities and our high quality fleet give us the ability to self-perform our contracts, which we believe distinguishes us from many of our competitors, who often subcontract significant portions of their projects. Project Selection and Bidding Expertise Our roots as a project management business have served us well, creating a project management culture that is pervasive throughout our organization. We focus on selecting the right projects on which to bid, controlling the critical path items of a contract by self-performing the work, managing the contract profitably by appropriately structuring rewards for project managers, and recognizing change order opportunities, which generally allow us to increase revenue and realize higher margins on a project. Our intense focus on profitably executing contracts has resulted in only a small number of unprofitable contracts since our founding. We use state-of-the-art, scalable, enterprise-wide project management software to integrate functions such as estimating project costs, managing financial reporting and forecasting profitability. Strong Regional Presence We believe we are a market leader in most of our primary markets. We believe our operations are strategically located to benefit from favorable industry trends, including increasing port expansion and maintenance, highway funding, coastal restoration, and hurricane restoration and repair activity. For example, the Port of Houston, one of the largest ports in the U.S., and the Port of Tampa and their adjacent private industry customers generate both new marine construction and annual maintenance of existing dock facilities. In addition, the Texas Gulf Coast does not have any natural deep water ports, requiring all of its channels and ports to depend significantly on maintenance dredging, which is a significant source of recurring revenue. Our strong regional presence allows us to more efficiently deploy and mobilize our equipment throughout the areas in which we operate. Customers Our customers include federal, state and local governmental agencies in the Unites States, as well as private commercial and industrial enterprises in the US and the Caribbean Basin. Most projects are competitively bid, with the award going to the lowest qualified bidder. Our top 20 customers accounted for approximately 67%, 70% and 83% of our total revenues during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Revenues earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government, including the Corps of Engineers, totaled 11% in 2008 and 18% in 2007. Our customer base shifts from time to time depending on the mix of contracts in progress. Management at each of our operating locations is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. They build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenue from our current customer base. Many of these customer relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through a partnering approach to account management, which includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement, and direct customer contact. At each of our operating locations, management maintains a parallel focus on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective customers. -8- Table of Contents Backlog Our contract backlog represents our estimate of the revenues we expect to realize under the portion of the contracts remaining to be performed. Given the typical duration of our contracts, which ranges from three to nine months, our backlog at any point in time usually represents only a portion of the revenue that we expect to realize during a twelve month period. We include projects in our backlog only when the customer has provided an executed contract, purchase order or change order. Our backlog under contract as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $159.4 million and at December 31, 2007 was approximately $129.3 million. These estimates are subject to fluctuations based upon the scope of services to be provided, as well as factors affecting the time required to complete the project. In addition, projects that make up our backlog may be canceled at any time without penalty; however, we can generally recover actual committed costs and profit on work performed up to the date of cancellation. Although we have not been materially adversely affected by contract cancellations or modifications in the past, we may be, especially in economically uncertain periods. Consequently, backlog is not necessarily indicative of future results. In addition to our backlog under contract, we also have a substantial number of projects in negotiation or pending award at any given time. Competition We compete in our service areas of the Gulf Coast, Atlantic Seaboard and Caribbean Basin with several regional marine construction services companies and a few national marine construction services companies. From time to time, we compete with certain national land-based heavy civil contractors that have greater resources than we do. Our industry is highly fragmented with competitors generally varying within the markets we serve and with few competitors competing in all of the markets we serve or for all of the services that we provide. We believe that our turnkey capability, expertise, experience and reputation for providing safe and timely quality services, safety record and programs, equipment fleet, financial strength, surety bonding capacity, knowledge of local markets and conditions, and project management and estimating abilities allow us to compete effectively. We believe significant barriers to entry exist in the markets in which we operate, including the ability to bond large projects, maritime laws, specialized marine equipment and technical experience; however, a U.S. company that has adequate financial resources, access to technical expertise and specialized equipment may become a competitor. Bonding In connection with our business, we generally are required to provide various types of surety bonds that provide an additional measure of security for our performance under certain government and private sector contracts. Our ability to obtain surety bonds depends upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise, and external factors, including the capacity of the overall surety market. Surety companies consider such factors in light of the amount of our backlog that we have currently bonded and their current underwriting standards, which may change from time to time. The capacity of the surety market is subject to market-driven fluctuations driven primarily by the level of surety industry losses and the degree of surety market consolidation. When surety market capacity shrinks it results in higher premiums and increased difficulty in obtaining bonding, in particular for larger, more complex projects throughout the market. The bonds we provide typically are for the amount of the project and have face amounts ranging from $1.0 to $50.0 million. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $100.0 million in surety bonds outstanding. On December 31, 2008, we believe our capacity under our current bonding arrangement was in excess of $400.0 million in aggregate surety bonds. Trade Names We operate under a number of trade names, including Orion Marine Group, King Fisher Marine Service, Orion Construction, Orion Diving & Salvage, Misener Marine Construction and Misener Diving & Salvage, F. Miller Construction, and Subaqueous Services. We do not generally register our trademarks with the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office, but instead rely on state and common law protections. While we consider our trade names to be valuable assets, we do not consider any single trademark or trade name to be of such material importance that its absence would cause a material disruption of our business. -9- Table of Contents Equipment We operate and maintain a large and diverse equipment fleet, substantially all of which we own, that includes the following: • Barges — Spud barges, material barges, deck barges, anchor barges and fuel barges are used to provide work platforms for cranes and other equipment, to transport materials to the project site and to provide support for the project at the project site. • Dayboats — Small pushboats, dredge tenders and skiffs are used to shift barges at the project site, to move personnel and to provide general support to the project site. • Tugs — Larger pushboats and tug boats are used to transport barges and other support equipment to and from project site. • Dredges — 24” cutter head suction dredge (diesel), 20” cutter head suction dredge (diesel/electric), 20” cutter head suction dredges (diesel), 16” cutter head suction dredges, and 12” portable cutter head suction dredges are used to provide dredging services at project sites. • Cranes — Crawler lattice boom cranes with lift capability from 50 tons to 250 tons and hydraulic rough terrain cranes with lift capability from 15 tons to 60 tons are used to provide lifting and pile driving capabilities on project sites, and to provide bucket work, including mechanical dredging and dragline work, to project sites. We believe that our equipment generally is well maintained and suitable for our current operations. We have the ability to extend the useful life of our equipment through capital refurbishment at periodic intervals. Most of our fleet is serviced by our own mechanics who work at various maintenance sites and facilities, including our dry dock facilities. We are also capable of building, and have built, much of our highly specialized equipment, and have invested approximately $57.8 million in our fleet over the past five years ended December 31, 2008. Our strategy is to move our fleet from region to region as our projects require. We have pledged our owned equipment as collateral under our credit facility. Equipment Certification Some of our equipment requires certification by the U.S. Coast Guard and, where required, our vessels’ permissible loading capacities require certification by the American Bureau of Shipping (“ABS”). ABS is an independent classification society which certifies that certain of our larger, seagoing vessels are “in-class,” signifying that the vessels have been built and maintained in accordance with ABS rules and applicable U.S. Coast Guard rules and regulations. Many projects, such as beach nourishment projects with offshore sand requirements, dredging projects in exposed entrance channels, and dredging projects with offshore disposal areas, are restricted by federal regulations to be performed only by dredges or scows that have U.S. Coast Guard certification and a load line established by the ABS. All of our vessels that are required to be certified by ABS have been certified as “in-class.” These certifications indicate that the vessels are structurally capable of operating in open waters, which enhances the mobility of our fleet. Government Regulations Our operations are subject to compliance with regulatory requirements of federal, state and local governmental agencies and authorities including the following: • regulations concerning workplace safety, labor relations and disadvantaged businesses; • licensing requirements applicable to shipping and dredging; and • permitting and inspection requirements applicable to marine construction projects. -10- Table of Contents We are also subject to government regulations pursuant to the Dredging Act, the Jones Act, the Shipping Act and the Vessel Documentation Act. These statutes require vessels engaged in the transport of merchandise or passengers between two points in the U.S. or dredging in the navigable waters of the U.S. to be documented with a coastwise endorsement, to be owned and controlled by U.S. citizens, to be manned by U.S. crews, and to be built in the U.S. The U.S. citizenship ownership and control standards require the vessel-owning entity to be at least 75% U.S.-citizen owned, and prohibit the demise or bareboat chartering of the vessel to any entity that does not meet the 75% U.S. citizen ownership test. These statutes, together with similar requirements for other sectors of the maritime industry, are collectively referred to as “cabotage” laws. In October 2008, the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) published for comment a proposed rule regarding safety hazards associated with the use of hoisting equipment, such as cranes, in construction activities. The Company uses hoisting equipment, including cranes. The proposed rule, which includes additional training, inspection, certification, and operating requirements, has not been finalized and is subject to public comment. The Company is actively assessing potential impacts of the proposed rule to its operations, but, at this time, does not expect any material adverse impact to its business or results of operations. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines and/or revocation of our operating licenses. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable regulatory requirements and have all material licenses required to conduct our operations. Environmental Matters General Our marine infrastructure construction, salvage, demolition, dredging and dredge material disposal activities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, including air emissions, water quality, solid waste management, marine and bird species and their habitats, and wetlands. Such laws and regulations may require that we or our customers obtain, and that we comply with, various environmental permits, registrations, licenses and other approvals. These laws and regulations also can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, such as delaying the appropriation and performance of particular projects; restricting the way we handle or dispose of wastes; requiring remedial action to mitigate pollution conditions that may be caused by our operations or that are attributable to others; and enjoining some or all of our operations deemed in non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. We believe that compliance with existing federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Nevertheless, the trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. As a result, there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate. The following is a discussion of the environmental laws and regulations that could have a material effect on our marine construction and other activities. Waste Management Our operations could be subject to the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and comparable state laws, which impose detailed requirements for the handling, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous solid wastes. Under the auspices of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own more stringent requirements. Generators of hazardous wastes must comply with certain standards for the accumulation and storage of hazardous wastes, as well as recordkeeping and reporting requirements applicable to hazardous waste storage and disposal activities. -11- Table of Contents Site Remediation The Comprehensive, Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as “Superfund,” and comparable state laws and regulations impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons responsible for the release of hazardous substances into the environment. Such classes of persons include the current and past owners or operators of sites where a hazardous substance was released, and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances at offsite locations, such as landfills. CERCLA authorizes the EPA, and in some cases third parties, to take actions in response to threats to the public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the responsible classes of persons the costs they incur. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, neighboring landowners and other third parties often file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. We currently own or lease properties that have been used by other industries for a number of years. Although we typically have used operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by us, on or under other locations where such substances have been taken for disposal, or on or under project sites where we perform work. In addition, some of the properties may have been operated by third parties or by previous owners whose treatment and disposal or release of wastes was not under our control. These properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, or to perform remedial activities to prevent future contamination. Water Discharges The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act (“CWA”), and analogous state laws impose strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the U.S., including wetlands. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. The CWA also regulates the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the U.S., and activities that result in such discharge generally require permits issued by the Corps of Engineers. Moreover, above ground storage of petroleum products is strictly regulated under the CWA. Under the CWA, federal and state regulatory agencies may impose administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties for non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the CWA and analogous state laws and regulations. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA”), which amends and augments the CWA, establishes strict liability for owners and operators of facilities that are sites of releases of oil into waters of the U.S. OPA and its associated regulations impose a variety of requirements on responsible parties related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from such spills. For instance, OPA requires vessel owners and operators to establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility sufficient to cover liabilities related to an oil spill for which such parties are statutorily responsible. We believe we are in compliance with all applicable OPA financial responsibility obligations. In addition, while OPA requires that certain vessels be outfitted with double hulls by 2015, given the make up and expected make up of our fleet of vessels, we do not expect to incur material expenditures to meet these requirements. In February 2009, regulations promulgated by the EPA covering certain previously exempt discharges to water from certain marine vessels became effective. The regulations provide for a general permit to cover such discharges and impose on marine vessel operators, including the Company, certain discharge, permitting, recordkeeping, reporting, monitoring, maintenance, and operating restrictions and requirements with respect to materials that are or may be discharged from certain vessels. Applicability of these restrictions and requirements is based on size and type of vessel, and they apply only to a minority of the Company’s vessels. The Company, nevertheless, is in the process of implementing such restrictions and requirements with respect to its vessels which are subject thereto, and the Company does not anticipate that such regulations or the associated permit terms, restrictions and requirements will adversely impact the Company’s business or results of operations. -12- Table of Contents Air Emissions The Clean Air Act (“CAA”) and comparable state laws restrict the emission of air pollutants from many sources, including paint booths, and may require pre-approval for the construction or modification of certain facilities expected to produce air emissions, impose stringent air permit requirements, or require the utilization of specific equipment or technologies to control emissions. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with the CAA. The U.S. Congress is actively considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. In addition, several states have declined to wait on Congress to develop and implement climate control legislation and have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by Congress or various states of the U.S., or the adoption of regulations by the EPA and analogous state agencies that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business could have an adverse affect on our operations and demand for our services. Endangered Species The Endangered Species Act (“ESA”) restricts activities that may affect endangered species or their habitats. We conduct activities in or near areas that may be designated as habitat for endangered or threatened species. For instance, seasonal observation of endangered or threatened West Indian Manatees adjacent to work areas may impact construction operations within our Florida market. Manatees generally congregate near warm water sources during the cooler winter months. Additionally, our dredging operations in the Florida market are impacted by limitations for placement of dredge spoil materials on designated spoil disposal islands, from April through August of each year, when the islands are inhabited by nesting colonies of protected bird species. Further, restrictions on work during the Whooping Crane nesting period in the Aransas Pass National Wildlife Refuge from October 1 through April 15 each year and during the non-dormant grass season for sea grass in the Laguna Madre from March 1 through November 30 each year impact our construction operations in the Texas Gulf Coast market. We plan our operations and bidding activity with these restrictions and limitations in mind, and they have not materially hindered our business in the past. However, these and other restrictions may affect our ability to obtain work or to complete our projects on time in the future. In addition, while we believe that we are in material compliance with the ESA, the discovery of previously unidentified endangered species could cause us to incur additional costs or become subject to operating restrictions or bans in the affected area. Employees At December 31, 2008, we had approximately 1,100 employees, 227 of whom were full-time salaried personnel and most of the remainder of whom were hourly personnel. We will hire additional employees for certain large projects and, subject to local market conditions, additional crew members are generally available for hire on relatively short notice. Our employees are not represented by any labor unions. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Financial Information About Geographic Areas The Company primarily operates in the Gulf Coast and Atlantic Seaboard areas of the United States. Revenues generated outside the United States, primarily in the Caribbean Basin, totaled 7.0%, 3.9% and 7.0% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our long-lived assets are substantially located in the United States. Access to the Company’s Filings The Company maintains a website at www.orionmarinegroup.com on which we make available, free of charge, access to the various reports we file with, or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The website is made available for information purposes only. It should not be relied upon for investment purposes, and none of the information on our website is incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference. In addition, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-732-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. -13- Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We may be unable to obtain sufficient bonding capacity for our contracts and the need for performance and surety bonds may adversely affect our business. We are generally required to post bonds in connection with our contracts to ensure job completion if we were to fail to finish a project. During the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 38% of our projects, measured by revenue, required us to post a bond. We have entered into a bonding agreement with Liberty Mutual Surety of America (“Liberty”) pursuant to which Liberty acts as surety, issues bid bonds, performance bonds and payment bonds, and obligates itself upon other contracts of guaranty required by us in the day-to-day operations of our business. However, Liberty is not obligated under the bonding agreement to issue bonds for us. We may not be able to maintain a sufficient level of bonding capacity in the future, which could preclude us from being able to bid for certain contracts and successfully contract with certain customers, or increase our letter of credit utilization in lieu of bonds, thereby reducing availability under our credit facility. In addition, the conditions of the bonding market may change, increasing our costs of bonding or restricting our ability to get new bonding which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business depends on key customer relationships and our reputation in the heavy civil marine infrastructure market, which is developed and maintained by our chief executives and key project managers. Loss of any of our relationships, reputation or executives or key project managers would materially reduce our revenues and profits. Our contracts are typically entered into on a project-by-project basis, so we do not have continuing contractual commitments with our customers beyond the terms of the current contract. We benefit from key customer relationships built over time and with both public and private entities that are a part of or use the MTS. We also benefit from our reputation in the heavy civil marine infrastructure market developed over years of successfully performing on projects. Both of these aspects of our business were developed and are maintained through our executives and key project managers. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. Our inability to retain our executives and key project managers would have a material adverse affect on our current customer relationships and reputation. The inability to maintain relationships with these customers or obtain new customers based on our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. To be successful, we need to attract and retain qualified personnel, and any inability to do so would adversely affect our business. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel in various areas, including engineering, project management, procurement, project controls, finance, and senior management. If we do not succeed in retaining and motivating our current employees and attracting new high quality employees, our business could be adversely affected. Accordingly, our ability to increase our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. Many companies in our industry are currently experiencing shortages of qualified personnel, and we may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently. Our labor expenses may also increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel, or we may have to curtail our planned internal growth as a result of labor shortages. We may also spend considerable resources training employees who may then be hired by our competitors, forcing us to spend additional funds to attract personnel to fill those positions. In addition, certain of our employees hold licenses and permits under which we operate. The loss of any such employees could result in our inability to operate under such licenses and permits, which could adversely affect our operations until replacement licenses or permits are obtained. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel in the future, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. -14- Table of Contents We could lose money if we fail to accurately estimate our costs or fail to execute within our cost estimates on fixed-price, lump-sum contracts. Most of our net revenue is derived from fixed-price, lump-sum contracts. Under these contracts, we perform our services and execute our projects at a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings, but we may be unable to recover any cost overruns. Fixed-price contracts carry inherent risks, including risks of losses from underestimating costs, operational difficulties and other changes that may occur over the contract period. If our cost estimates for a contract are inaccurate, or if we do not execute the contract within our cost estimates, we may incur losses or the project may not be as profitable as we expected. In addition, we are sometimes required to incur costs in connection with modifications to a contract (change orders) that may be unapproved by the customer as to scope and/or price, or to incur unanticipated costs, including costs for customer-caused delays, errors in specifications or designs, or contract suspension or termination, that we may not be able to recover. These, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The revenue, cost and gross profit realized on such contracts can vary, sometimes substantially, from the original projections due to changes in a variety of factors, such as: • failure to properly estimate costs of engineering, design, material, equipment or labor; • unanticipated technical problems with the structures or services being supplied by us, which may require that we spend our own money to remedy the problem; • project modifications creating unanticipated costs; • changes in the costs of equipment, materials, labor or subcontractors; • our suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform; • difficulties in our customers obtaining required governmental permits or approvals; • changes in local laws and regulations; • delays caused by local weather conditions; and • exacerbation of any one or more of these factors as projects grow in size and complexity. These risks increase if the duration of the project is long-term because there is an elevated risk that the circumstances upon which we based our original bid will change in a manner that increases costs. In addition, we sometimes bear the risk of delays caused by unexpected conditions or events. We may incur higher costs to acquire, manufacture and maintain equipment necessary for our operations. We have traditionally owned most of the equipment used in our projects, and we do not bid on contracts for which we do not have, or cannot quickly procure, whether through construction, acquisition or lease, the necessary equipment. We are capable of building much of the specialized equipment used in our projects, including dayboats, tenders and dredges. To the extent that we are unable to buy or build equipment necessary for our needs, either due to a lack of available funding or equipment shortages in the marketplace, we may be forced to rent equipment on a short-term basis, which could increase the costs of completing contracts. In addition, our equipment requires continuous maintenance, which we provide through our own repair facilities and dry docks, as well as certification by the U.S. Coast Guard. If we are unable to continue to maintain the equipment in our fleet or are unable to obtain the requisite certifications, we may be forced to obtain third-party repair services, be unable to use our uncertified equipment or be unable to bid on contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our vessels may be subject to arrest/seizure by claimants as security for maritime torts committed by the vessel or us or the failure by us to pay for necessaries, including fuel and repair services, which were furnished to the vessel. Such arrest/seizure could preclude the vessel from working, thereby causing delays in marine construction projects. -15- Table of Contents The timing of new contracts may result in unpredictable fluctuations in our cash flow and profitability. These factors as well as others that may cause our actual financial results to vary from any publicly disclosed earnings guidance and forecasts are outside of our control. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from project-based work. It is generally very difficult to predict the timing and location of awarded contracts. The selection of, timing of or failure to obtain projects, delays in awards of projects, the rebidding or termination of projects due to budget overruns, cancellations of projects or delays in completion of contracts could result in the under-utilization of our assets and reduce our cash flows. Even if we are awarded contracts, we face additional risks that could affect whether, or when, work will begin. For example, some of our contracts are subject to financing and other contingencies that may delay or result in termination of projects. This can present difficulty in matching workforce size and equipment location with contract needs. In some cases, we may be required to bear the cost of a ready workforce and equipment that is larger than necessary, resulting in unpredictability in our cash flow, expenses and profitability. If an expected contract award or the related work release is delayed or not received, we could incur substantial costs without receipt of any corresponding revenues. Delays by our customers in obtaining required approvals for their infrastructure projects may delay their awarding contracts for those projects and, once awarded, the ability to commence construction under those contracts. Moreover, construction projects for which our services are contracted may require significant expenditures by us prior to receipt of relevant payments by a customer and may expose us to potential credit risk if such customer should encounter financial difficulties. Such expenditures could reduce our cash flows and necessitate increased borrowings under our credit facilities. Finally, the winding down or completion of work on significant projects that were active in previous periods will reduce our revenue and earnings if such significant projects have not been replaced in the current period. From time-to-time we may publicly provide earnings or other forms of guidance, which reflect our predictions about future revenue, operating costs and capital structure, among other factors. Any such predictions may be impacted by these factors as well as others that are beyond our control and might not turn out to be correct. We depend on continued federal, state and local government funding for marine infrastructure. A reduction in government funding for marine construction or maintenance contracts can materially reduce our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 50% of our revenue was attributable to contracts with federal, state or local agencies or with companies operating under contracts with federal, state or local agencies. Our operations depend on project funding by various government agencies and are adversely affected by decreased levels of, or delays in, government funding. A future decrease in government funding in any of our geographic markets could result in intense competition and pricing pressures for projects that we bid on in the future. As a result of competitive bidding and pricing pressures, we may be awarded fewer projects, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. A significant portion of our business is based on government contracts. Our operating results may be adversely affected by the terms of the government contracts or our failure to comply with applicable terms. Government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations, contract provisions and a variety of socioeconomic requirements relating to their formation, administration, performance and accounting. Many of these contracts include express or implied certifications of compliance with applicable laws and contract provisions. As a result of our government contracting and subcontracting, claims for civil or criminal fraud may be brought by the government for violations of these regulations, requirements or statutes. We may also be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, which could include claims for up to treble damages. Further, if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, requirements or statutes, our existing government contracts could be terminated, we could be suspended or debarred from government contracting or subcontracting, including federally funded projects at the state level. In addition, government customers typically can terminate or modify any of their contracts with us at their convenience, and certain government agencies may claim immunity from suit to recover disputed contract amounts. If our government contracts are -16- Table of Contents terminated for any reason, or if we are suspended or debarred from government work, we could suffer a significant reduction in expected revenue which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a small group of customers. The loss of one or more of these customers could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Our customer base is highly concentrated. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 30%, 39%, and 59% of our revenues for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In 2008, one customer accounted for approximately 10% of revenues in 2008, two customers generated revenues in excess of 10% of revenues in fiscal 2007, and three customers generated revenues in excess of 10% in fiscal 2006. We believe that we will continue to rely on a relatively small group of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. We may not be able to maintain our relationships with our significant customers. The loss of, or reduction of our sales to, any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. See “Business — Customers” for a description of our largest customers. We may not be able to fully realize the revenue value reported in our backlog. We had a backlog of work to be completed on contracts totaling approximately $159.4 million as of December 31, 2008. Backlog develops as a result of new awards, which represent the revenue value of new project commitments received by us during a given period. Backlog consists of projects which have either (a) not yet been started or (b) are in progress but are not yet complete. In the latter case, the revenue value reported in backlog is the remaining value associated with work that has not yet been completed. We cannot guarantee that the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized, or if realized, will result in earnings. From time-to-time, projects are cancelled that appeared to have a high certainty of going forward at the time they were recorded as new awards. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenue reflected in our backlog. In addition to being unable to recover certain direct costs, cancelled projects may also result in additional unrecoverable costs due to the resulting under-utilization of our assets. Our business is subject to significant operating risks and hazards that could result in damage or destruction to persons or property, which could result in losses or liabilities to us. The businesses of marine infrastructure construction, port maintenance, dredging and salvage are generally subject to a number of risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, adverse weather conditions, collisions with fixed objects, cave-ins, encountering unusual or unexpected geological formations, disruption of transportation services and flooding. These risks could result in damage to or destruction of, dredges, transportation vessels, other maritime structures and buildings, and could also result in personal injury or death, environmental damage, performance delays, monetary losses or legal liability. Our safety record is an important consideration for our customers. If serious accidents or fatalities occur or our safety record was to deteriorate, we may be ineligible to bid on certain work, and existing service arrangements could be terminated. Further, regulatory changes implemented by OSHA or the U.S. Coast Guard could impose additional costs on us. Adverse experience with hazards and claims could have a negative effect on our reputation with our existing or potential new customers and our prospects for future work. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all. We maintain various insurance policies, including general liability and workers’ compensation. We are partially self-insured under some of our policies, and our insurance does not cover all types or amounts of liabilities. We are not required to, and do not, specifically set aside funds for our self-insurance programs. -17- Table of Contents At any given time, we are subject to multiple workers’ compensation and personal injury claims. We maintain substantial loss accruals for workers’ compensation claims, and our workers’ compensation and insurance costs have been rising for several years notwithstanding our emphasis on safety. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. In addition, some of the projects that we bid on require us to maintain builder’s risk insurance at high levels. We may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain such insurance coverage at acceptable rates or at all could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, due to a variety of factors such as increases in claims and projected significant increases in medical costs and wages, our insurance premiums may increase in the future and we may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Any such inadequacy of, or inability to obtain, insurance coverage at acceptable rates, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our employees are covered by federal laws that provide seagoing employees remedies for job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. Many of our employees are covered by federal maritime law, including provisions of the Jones Act (“Jones Act”), the Longshore and Harbor Workers Act, (“USL&H”) and the Seaman’s Wage Act. Jones Act laws typically operate to make liability limits established by USL&H and state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes, we have greater exposure for claims made by these employees as compared to employers whose employees are not covered by these provisions. For example, in the normal course of business, we are party to various personal injury lawsuits. We maintain insurance to cover claims that arise from injuries to our hourly workforce subject to a deductible. Over the last several years, there has been an increase in suits filed in Texas due in large part to two Texas law firms aggressively pursuing personal injury claims on behalf of dredging workers residing in Texas. Aggressive medical advice is increasing the seriousness of claimed injuries and the amount demanded in settlement. During fiscal 2008, we recorded approximately $1.0 million of expense for our self-insured portion of these liabilities. We believe our recorded self insurance reserves represent our best estimate of the outcomes of these claims. Should these trends persist; we could continue to be negatively impacted in the future. See Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Many of our contracts have penalties for late completion. In many instances, including in our fixed-price contracts, we guarantee that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. If we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled, we may be held responsible for cost impacts resulting from any delay, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages. In addition, failure to maintain a required schedule could cause us to default on our government contracts, giving rise to a variety of potential damages. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed our original estimates, and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. We may choose, or be required, to pay our suppliers and subcontractors even if our customers do not pay, or delay paying, us for the related services. We use suppliers to obtain necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services and to manage work flow. In some cases, we pay our suppliers and subcontractors before our customers pay us for the related services. If we choose, or are required, to pay our suppliers and subcontractors for materials purchased and work performed for customers who fail to pay, or delay paying, us for the related work, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. -18- Table of Contents We extend credit to customers for purchases of our services, and in the past we have had, and in the future we may have, difficulty collecting receivables from major customers that have filed bankruptcy or are otherwise experiencing financial difficulties. We generally perform services in advance of payment for our customers, which include governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of marine and port facilities located primarily in the Gulf Coast, the Atlantic Seaboard and the Caribbean Basin. Consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors. On occasion, we have had difficulty collecting from governmental entities or customers with financial difficulties. If we cannot collect receivables for present or future services, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses beyond our established reserves. Our strategy of growing through strategic acquisitions may not be successful. We may pursue growth through the acquisition of companies or assets that will enable us to broaden the types of projects we execute and also expand into new markets. We have completed several acquisitions and plan to consider strategic acquisitions in the future. We may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable companies or assets or reach agreement on potential strategic acquisitions on acceptable terms. Moreover, an acquisition involves certain risks, including: • difficulties in the integration of operations, systems, policies and procedures; • enhancements in our controls and procedures including those necessary for a public company may make it more difficult to integrate operations and systems; • failure to implement proper overall business controls, including those required to support our growth, resulting in inconsistent operating and financial practices at companies we acquire or have acquired; • termination of relationships with the key personnel and customers of an acquired company; • additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, financial reporting and internal controls; • the incurrence of environmental and other liabilities, including liabilities arising from the operation of an acquired business or asset prior to our acquisition for which we are not indemnified or for which the indemnity is inadequate; • disruption of our ongoing business or receipt of insufficient management attention; and • inability to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits that we anticipate. Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. Moreover, to the extent an acquisition transaction financed by non-equity consideration results in additional goodwill, it will reduce our tangible net worth, which might have an adverse effect on our credit and bonding capacity. The anticipated investment in port and marine infrastructure may not be as large as expected, which may result in periods of low demand for our services. The demand for port construction, maintenance infrastructure services and dredging may be vulnerable to downturns in the economy generally and in the marine transportation industry specifically. The amount of capital expenditures on port facilities and marine infrastructure in our markets is affected by the actual and anticipated shipping and vessel needs of the economy in general and in our geographic markets in particular. If the general level of economic activity deteriorates, our customers may delay or cancel expansions, upgrades, maintenance and repairs to their infrastructure. A number of other factors, including the financial condition of the industry, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future. During downturns in the U.S. or world economies, the anticipated port usage in our geographic markets may decline, resulting in less port construction, upgrading and maintenance. As a result, demand for our services could substantially decline for extended periods. -19- Table of Contents Any adverse change to the economy or business environment in the regions in which we operate could significantly affect our operations, which would lead to lower revenues and reduced profitability. Our operations are currently concentrated in the Gulf Coast, the Atlantic Seaboard and the Caribbean Basin. Because of this concentration in a specific geographic location, we are susceptible to fluctuations in our business caused by adverse economic or other conditions in this region, including natural or other disasters. During the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have been and may from time to time be named as a defendant in legal actions claiming damages in connection with marine infrastructure projects and other matters. These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business, including employment-related claims and contractual disputes or claims for personal injury (including asbestos-related lawsuits) or property damage which occurs in connection with services performed relating to project or construction sites. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, environmental damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, consequential damages or injunctive or declaratory relief. Contractual disputes normally involve claims relating to the timely completion of projects, performance of equipment, design or other engineering services or project services. We may incur liabilities that may not be covered by insurance policies, or, if covered, the dollar amount of such liabilities may exceed our policy limits or fall below applicable deductibles. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of significant magnitude, could cause us to suffer a significant loss and reduce cash available for our operations. Furthermore, our services are integral to the operation and performance of the marine infrastructure. As a result, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the infrastructure that we work on, even if our services are not the cause for such failures. In addition, we may incur civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage or personal injury. With respect to such lawsuits, claims, proceedings and indemnities, we have and will accrue reserves in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). In the event that such actions or indemnities are ultimately resolved unfavorably at amounts exceeding our accrued reserves, or at material amounts, the outcome could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our liquidity position. We are currently engaged in litigation related to claims arising from Hurricane Katrina. See “Business — Legal Proceedings.” Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our marine infrastructure construction, salvage, demolition, dredging and dredge material disposal activities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those concerning air emissions, water quality, solid waste management, and protection of certain marine and bird species, their habitats, and wetlands. We may incur substantial costs in order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations. For instance, we may be required to obtain, maintain and comply with permits and other approvals (as well as those obtained for projects by our customers) issued by various federal, state and local governmental authorities; limit or prevent releases of materials from our operations in accordance with these permits and approvals; and install pollution control equipment. In addition, compliance with environmental laws and regulations can delay or prevent our performance of a particular project and increase related project costs. Moreover, new, stricter environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be implemented that significantly increase our compliance costs, or require us to adopt more costly methods of operation. -20- Table of Contents Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations, or the permits issued under them, may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. In addition, strict joint and several liability may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the investigation or remediation of environmental contamination that resulted from the conduct of others or from our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Further, it is possible that we may be exposed to liability due to releases of pollutants, or other environmental impacts that may arise in the course of our operations. For instance, some of the work we perform is in underground and water environments, and if the field location maps or waterway charts supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil or water that are not indicated on the field location maps or waterway charts, our underground and underwater work could strike objects in the soil or the waterway bottom containing pollutants and result in a rupture and discharge of pollutants. In addition, we sometimes perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies, and due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture releasing subsurface materials. These releases may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, may expose us to remediation costs and fines and legal actions by private parties seeking damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs through insurance or increased revenues, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. See “Business — Environmental Matters” for more information. Our operations are susceptible to adverse weather conditions in our regions of operation. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather, particularly along the Gulf Coast, the Atlantic Seaboard and Caribbean Basin where we have concentrated operations. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include: • evacuation of personnel and curtailment of services; • weather-related damage to our equipment, facilities and project work sites resulting in suspension of operations; • inability to deliver materials to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules; and • loss of productivity. Our dependence on petroleum-based products increases our costs as the prices of such products increase, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We use diesel fuel and other petroleum-based products to operate our equipment used in our construction contracts. Decreased supplies of those products relative to demand and other factors can cause an increase in their cost. Future increases in the costs of fuel and other petroleum-based products used in our business, particularly if a bid has been submitted for a contract and the costs of those products have been estimated at amounts less than the actual costs thereof, could result in a lower profit, or a loss, on one or more contracts. Terrorist attacks at port facilities could negatively impact the markets in which we operate. Terrorist attacks, like those that occurred on September 11, 2001, targeted at ports, marine facilities or shipping could affect the markets in which we operate our business and our expectations. Increased armed hostilities, terrorist attacks or responses from the U.S. may lead to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbances in the U.S. or elsewhere, which may further contribute to economic instability in the U.S. These attacks or armed conflicts may affect our operations or those of our customers or suppliers and could impact our revenues, our production capability and our ability to complete contracts in a timely manner. -21- Table of Contents We may be subject to unionization, work stoppages, slowdowns or increased labor costs. We have a non-union workforce. If our employees unionize, it could result in demands that may increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our profitability. Each of our different employee groups could unionize at any time and would require separate collective bargaining agreements. If any group of our employees were to unionize and we were unable to agree on the terms of their collective bargaining agreement or we were to experience widespread employee dissatisfaction, we could be subject to work slowdowns or stoppages. In addition, we may be subject to disruptions by organized labor groups protesting our non-union status. Any of these events would be disruptive to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to sustain our historical revenue growth rate. Our revenue has grown rapidly in recent years. Our revenue increased by 24.5% from $210.4 million in 2007 to $261.8 million in 2008. However, we may be unable to sustain our recent revenue growth rate for a variety of reasons, including limits on additional growth in our current markets, less success in competitive bidding for contracts, limitations on access to necessary working capital and investment capital to sustain growth, limitations on access to bonding to support increased contracts and operations, the inability to hire and retain essential personnel and to acquire equipment to support growth, and the inability to identify acquisition candidates and successfully integrate them into our business. A decline in our revenue growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition if we are unable to reduce the growth of our operating expenses at the same rate. We are subject to risks related to our international operations. Approximately 7% of our revenue in 2008 was derived from international markets. We presently conduct projects in the Caribbean Basin. International operations subject us to additional risks, including: • uncertainties concerning import and export license requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the U.S.; • changes in foreign policies and regulatory requirements; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • taxation issues; • currency fluctuations; and • political, cultural and economic uncertainties. These risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Restrictions on foreign ownership of our vessels could limit our ability to sell off any portion of our business or result in the forfeiture of our vessels or in our inability to continue our operations in U.S. navigable waters. The Dredging Act, the Jones Act, the Shipping Act and the Vessel Documentation Act require vessels engaged in the transport of merchandise or passengers between two points in the U.S. or dredging in the navigable waters of the U.S. to be owned and controlled by U.S. citizens. The U.S. citizen ownership and control standards require the vessel-owning entity to be at least 75% U.S. citizen-owned, thus restricting foreign ownership interests in the entities that directly or indirectly own the vessels which we operate. If we were to seek to sell any portion of our business unit that owns any of these vessels, we may have fewer potential purchasers, since some potential purchasers might be unable or unwilling to satisfy the foreign ownership restrictions described above; additionally, any sales of certain of our larger vessels to foreign buyers would be subject to approval by the U.S. Maritime Administration. As a result, the sales price for that portion of our business may not attain the amount that could be obtained in an unregulated market. Furthermore, although our certificate of incorporation contains provisions limiting ownership of our capital stock by non-U.S. citizens, foreign ownership is difficult to track and if we or any operating subsidiaries -22- Table of Contents cease to be 75% controlled and owned by U.S. citizens, we would become ineligible to continue our operations in U.S. navigable waters and may become subject to penalties and risk forfeiture of our vessels. The recent worldwide financial and credit crisis could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession and have a material adverse affect on our revenue and profitability. Concerns over slower or declining economic growth is affecting numerous industries and companies and many states are facing difficult budget decisions which could result in reduced demand for general construction projects. This reduced demand may increase the number of potential bidders in our markets and could increase the competitive environment through pressure on pricing. Budgeting decisions and constraints due to the tight credit markets may result in diversion of governmental funding from projects we perform to other uses. A weak economy may also produce less tax revenue, thereby decreasing funds for public sector projects. Lower levels of activity may result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. The global financial crisis may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. General worldwide economic conditions have deteriorated due to credit conditions impacted by the sub-prime mortgage turmoil and other factors. We may face challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. While these conditions have not impaired the Company’s ability to access credit markets and finance operations, at this time, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. A continuing shortage of liquidity could have an impact on the lenders under our credit facility or on our customers. Risk Factors Related to our Accounting, Financial Results and Financing Plans Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements. To prepare financial statements in conformity with GAAP, management is required to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: contract costs and profits, application of percentage-of-completion accounting, and revenue recognition of contract change order claims; provisions for uncollectible receivables and customer claims and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, suppliers and others; valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves; and the value of our deferred tax assets. Our actual results could differ from those estimates. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profit. In particular, as is more fully discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies,” we recognize contract revenue using the percentage-of-completion method. A significant portion of our work is performed on a fixed-price or lump-sum basis. The balance of our work is performed on variations of cost reimbursable and target price approaches. Contract revenue is accrued based on the percentage that actual costs-to-date bear to total estimated costs. We utilize this cost-to-cost approach as we believe this method is less subjective than relying on assessments of physical progress. We follow the guidance of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) Statement of Position 81-1, Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts, for accounting policies relating to our use of the percentage-of-completion method, estimating costs, revenue recognition, combining and segmenting contracts and unapproved change order/claim recognition. Under the cost-to-cost approach, while the most widely recognized method used for percentage-of-completion accounting, the use of estimated cost to complete each contract is a significant variable in the process of determining income earned and is a significant factor in the accounting for contracts. -23- Table of Contents The cumulative impact of revisions in total cost estimates during the progress of work is reflected in the period in which these changes become known. Due to the various estimates inherent in our contract accounting, actual results could differ from those estimates, which may result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profit. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock value. Maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”) and the related rules of the SEC to annually assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to issue a report on that assessment. During the course of the related documentation and testing, we may identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we may be unable to remediate before the requisite deadline for those reports. If our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to process and report financial information and the value of our common stock could significantly decline. Our bonding requirements may limit our ability to incur indebtedness. We generally are required to provide various types of surety bonds that provide an additional measure of security for our performance under certain government and private sector contracts. Our ability to obtain surety bonds depends upon various factors including our capitalization, working capital and amount of our indebtedness. In order to help ensure that we can obtain required bonds, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness that may be needed for potential acquisitions and operations. Our inability to incur additional indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The downturn in economic conditions may impact our customers’ ability to pay for services and finance projects. Our primary customers are governmental agencies in the United States, as well as a wide variety of private customers in diverse industries. It is possible that the credit crisis and current economic conditions may affect some of our customers’ ability to access sufficient capital to finance or complete projects. Our cash flows may be adversely impacted through customer delays in payment or non-payment of our accounts receivable, or through delays or cancellations of projects awarded to us. We monitor our accounts receivable balances closely and maintain contact with our customers to assess the economic viability of projects in process. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None -24- Table of Contents Item 