Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this report and our other public filings. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or even all of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have a history of losses and we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have incurred losses in each fiscal period since our inception in 2001. We experienced a net loss on a generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP) basis of $12.5 million for 2010. At December 31, 2010 we had an accumulated deficit of $231.3 million. The losses and accumulated deficit were due to the substantial investments we made to grow our business and acquire customers. We still expect to incur significant operating expenses in the future due to our investment in sales and marketing, research and development expenses, operations costs, expenses related to stock-based compensation and acquisition-related charges arising from our acquisitions of Inform, CubeTree and YouCalc, and other future acquisitions we may undertake. Therefore, we may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. In pursuing acquisitions, it is also likely that our operating expenses will increase. Furthermore, to the extent we are successful in increasing our customer base we could also incur increased losses because costs associated with generating customer agreements are generally incurred up front, while revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. You should not consider our historic revenue growth as indicative of our future performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future or that, if we do become profitable, we will sustain profitability. Because we recognize subscription and support revenue from our customers over the term of their agreements, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We recognize subscription and support revenue over the terms of our customer agreements, which typically range from one to three years, with some up to five years. As a result, most of our quarterly revenue results from agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a shortfall in demand for our application suite in any quarter may not significantly reduce our subscription and support revenue for that quarter, but could negatively affect subscription and support revenue in future quarters. In particular, if such a shortfall were to occur in our fourth quarter, it may be more difficult for us to increase our customer sales to recover from such a shortfall as we have historically entered into a significant portion of our customer agreements during the fourth quarter. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this potential reduction in subscription and support revenue. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales of our application suite may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our subscription and support revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. 18 Table of Contents Because we recognize subscription and support revenue from our customers over the term of their agreements but incur most costs associated with generating customer agreements up front, rapid growth in our customer base may result in increased losses. Because the expenses associated with generating customer agreements are generally incurred up front, but the resulting subscription and support revenue is recognized over the life of the customer agreement, increased growth in the number of customers may result in our recognition of more costs than subscription and support revenue in the earlier periods of the terms of our agreements even though the customer is expected to be profitable for us over the term of the agreement. Our business depends substantially on customers renewing their agreements and purchasing additional modules or users from us. Any decline in our customer renewals would harm our future operating results. In order for us to maintain or improve our operating results, it is important that our customers renew their agreements with us when the initial contract term expires and also purchase additional modules or additional users. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions after the initial subscription period, and we cannot assure you that customers will renew subscriptions at the same or higher level of service, if at all. Although our renewal rates have been historically high, some of our customers have elected not to renew their agreements with us. Moreover, in some cases, some of our customers have the right to cancel their agreements prior to the expiration of the term. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our application suite, our customer support, our pricing, the prices of competing products or services, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, the effects of global economic conditions, or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions, renew on less favorable terms or fail to purchase additional modules or users, our revenue and billings may decline, and we may not realize significantly improved operating results from our customer base. The market in which we participate is intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The market for business execution applications is fragmented, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, with relatively low barriers to entry in some segments. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater name recognition, much longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets and significantly greater resources than we do, and with the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. If we fail to compete effectively, our business will be harmed. Some of our principal competitors offer their products or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. If we are unable to achieve our target pricing levels, our operating results would be negatively impacted. In addition, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our application suite to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could harm our business. While we still face competition from paper-based processes and desktop software tools, we also face competition from custom-built software that is designed to support the needs of a single organization, and from third-party human resources application providers. These software vendors include, without limitation, Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Cornerstone OnDemand, Inc., Halogen Software Inc., Kenexa Corporation, Oracle Corporation, PeopleClick Authoria, Plateau Systems, Ltd., SAP AG, Saba Software, Inc., StepStone Solutions, SumTotal Systems Inc., Taleo Corporation and Workday, Inc. Our expanded product and feature offerings compete with those offered by other companies, including large public companies such as Google, IBM’s Cognos, Microsoft’s SharePoint Solutions and Salesforce.com and smaller private companies such as Jive Software and Socialtext. Competitive pressures may also increase with the consolidation of competitors within our market, such as the acquisition of Learn.com by Taleo, Salary.com by Kenexa, Mr. Ted by StepStone and Softscape and GeoLearning, Inc. by SumTotal. 19 Table of Contents Many of our competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing relationships, access to larger customer bases and major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and resellers. Moreover, many software vendors could bundle products or offer them at a low price as part of a larger product sale. In addition, some competitors may offer software that addresses one or a limited number of business execution functions at lower prices or with greater depth than our application suite. As a result, our competitors might be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. Further, some potential customers, particularly large enterprises, may elect to develop their own internal solutions. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. We made three acquisitions in 2010 and expect to acquire other companies or technologies, which could divert our management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, increase expenses, and otherwise disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. We acquired three companies in 2010, and we expect to acquire or invest in other businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our application suite, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. We cannot assure you that we will realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions. There are inherent risks in integrating and managing corporate acquisitions, and we have limited experience with acquisitions. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies successfully, or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: • unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; • incurrence of acquisition-related costs, which would be recognized as a current period expense under FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 805-20, Business Combinations; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • harm to our existing business relationships with business partners and customers as a result of the acquisition; • the potential loss of key employees; • use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; and • use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. Also, contingent considerations related to the acquisitions will be remeasured to fair value at each reporting period, with any changes in the value recorded as income or expense. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our results of operations. Acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our operating results, business and financial condition may suffer. 20 Table of Contents If our security measures are breached or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our application suite may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our application suite, and we may incur significant liabilities. Our operations involve the storage and transmission of our customers’ data, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other liability. While we have administrative, technical, and physical security measures in place, and we try to contractually require third parties to whom we transfer data to have appropriate security measures, if our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our customers’ data, including personally identifiable information regarding users, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers’ data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. We may be exposed to a greater risk of security breaches as a result of our acquisitions because the acquired businesses may use security measures and other systems that are different and less secure than ours. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose potential sales and existing customers. Because our application suite collects, stores and reports personal information of job applicants and employees, privacy concerns could result in liability to us or inhibit sales of our application suite. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocacy and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that apply to us. Because many of the features of our application suite collect, store and report on personal information, any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and policies, could result in liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and harm our business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws, regulations and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of our application suite and reduce overall demand for it. Privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our application suite particularly in certain industries and foreign countries. Our organization continues to experience rapid changes. If we fail to manage these changes effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or adequately address competitive challenges. We continue to experience rapid changes in headcount and operations. We grew from 188 employees at December 31, 2005 to 596 employees at December 31, 2008 to 1,047 employees at December 31, 2010 and have added additional members to our management team. We increased the size of our customer base from 341 customers at December 31, 2005 to approximately 2,600 customers at December 31, 2008 to more than 3,200 customers at December 31, 2010. The growth in our customer base has placed, and any future growth will place, a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational, legal and financial compliance infrastructure. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage these changes effectively. We will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Failure to effectively manage organizational changes could result in difficulty in implementing customers, declines in quality or customer satisfaction, increases in costs, difficulties in introducing new features or other operational difficulties, and any of these difficulties could adversely impact our business performance and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Failure to adequately expand and ramp our direct sales force and develop and expand our indirect sales channel will impede our growth. We plan to continue to invest in our sales and marketing infrastructure in order to grow our customer base and our business. We plan to continue to expand and ramp our direct sales force and engage additional third-party channel partners, both domestically and internationally. Identifying and recruiting these people and entities and training them in the use of our application suite requires significant time, expense and attention. This expansion will require us to invest significant financial and other resources. We typically have no long-term agreements or minimum purchase commitments with any of our channel partners, and our agreements with these channel partners do not prohibit them from offering products or services that compete with ours. Our business will be seriously harmed if our efforts to expand and ramp our direct sales force and expand our indirect sales channels do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue. In particular, if we are unable to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel or if new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, we may not be able to significantly increase our revenue and grow our business. In addition, if our channel partners increasingly offer products or services that compete with ours, or fail to become knowledgeable of our products or to provide adequate customer support, this could impair our ability to sell our products and harm our customer relationships and reputation. The market for our application suite depends on widespread adoption of business execution. Widespread adoption of our solutions depends on the widespread adoption of business execution by organizations. It is uncertain whether they will purchase software as a service for this function. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that a software as a service model for business execution will achieve and sustain the high level of market acceptance that is critical for the success of our business. We have historically derived a significant portion of our revenue from sales of our performance management and goal management modules. If these modules are not widely accepted by new customers, our operating results may be harmed. We have derived a significant portion of our historical revenue from sales of our core Performance Management and Goal Management modules but the percentage of revenue from these modules has decreased over time as we have expanded our suite of products and customers have purchased additional modules. If these core modules do not remain competitive, or if we experience pricing pressure or reduced demand for these modules, our future subscription and other revenue could be negatively affected, which would harm our future operating results. The market for software as a service is at a relatively early stage of development, and if it does not develop or develops more slowly than we expect, our business will be harmed. The market for software as a service is at a relatively early stage relative to on-premise solutions, and these applications may not achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend on the willingness of organizations to increase their use of software as a service. Many companies have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses, and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to software as a service. We have encountered customers in the past that have been unwilling to subscribe to our application suite because they could not install it on their premises. Other factors that may affect the market acceptance of software as a service include: • perceived security capabilities and reliability; • perceived concerns about ability to scale operations for large enterprise customers; • concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage critical employee data; and • the level of configurability or customizability of the software. 22 Table of Contents If organizations do not perceive the benefits of software as a service, the market for our software may not develop further, or it may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would adversely affect our business. Our quarterly results can fluctuate and, if we fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, our stock price and the value of your investment could decline substantially. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly financial results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who follow our stock, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results may be caused by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below: • our ability to attract new customers; • customer renewal rates; • the size and timing of customer orders; • the extent to which customers increase or decrease the number of modules or users upon any renewal of their agreements; • the effects of changes in global economic conditions and announcements of economic data and government initiatives to address the global economic downturn; • the level of new customers as compared to renewal customers in a particular period; • the addition or loss of large customers, including through acquisitions or consolidations; • the mix of customers between small, mid-sized and large enterprise customers; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • changes in currency exchange rates; • seasonal variations in the demand for our application suite, which has historically been highest in the fourth quarter of the year; • the amount and timing of operating expenses, particularly sales and marketing, related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • the timing and success of new product and service introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, customers or strategic partners; • network outages or security breaches; • the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses and potential future charges for impairment of goodwill from acquired companies; and • other general economic, industry and market conditions. We believe that our quarterly results of operations, including the levels of our revenue and changes in deferred revenue, may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of any one quarter as an indication of future performance. In addition, an increased emphasis on quarterly results may not result in our achievement of long-term business strategies. 23 Table of Contents The market for our application suite among large enterprise customers may be limited if they require customized features or functions that we do not intend to provide. Prospective large enterprise customers may require customized features and functions unique to their business processes. If prospective customers require customized features or functions that we do not offer, then the market for our application suite will be more limited among these types of customers and our business could suffer. In addition, supporting large enterprise customers could require us to devote significant development services and support personnel and strain our personnel resources and infrastructure. If we are unable to address the needs of these customers in a timely fashion or further develop and enhance our application suite, these customers have in the past and may not renew their subscriptions, seek to terminate their relationship, renew on less favorable terms, fail to purchase additional modules or additional users or assert legal claims against us. If any of these were to occur, our revenue may decline and we may not realize significantly improved operating results from our customer base. As more of our sales efforts are targeted at larger enterprise customers, our sales cycle may become more time-consuming and expensive, we may encounter pricing pressure and implementation challenges, and we may have to delay revenue recognition for some complex transactions, all of which could harm our business and operating results. As we target more of our sales efforts at larger enterprise customers, we will face greater costs, longer sales cycles and less predictability in completing some of our sales. Our quarterly results of operations also may vary significantly depending on when we complete sales to these larger enterprise customers. For large enterprises, a purchase decision may be an enterprise-wide decision and, if so, these types of sales would require us to provide greater levels of education regarding the use and benefits of our service, as well as education regarding our compliance with applicable privacy and data protection laws and regulations to prospective customers with international operations. As a result of these factors, these sales opportunities may require us to devote greater sales support and professional services resources to individual customers, driving up costs and time required to complete sales and diverting sales and professional services resources to a smaller number of larger transactions, while potentially requiring us to delay revenue recognition on some of these transactions until the technical or implementation requirements have been met. We depend on our management team, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, our President and our key sales and development personnel, and the loss of one or more key employees or groups could harm our business and prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. Our success depends on the expertise and continued services of our executive officers, particularly our Chief Executive Officer and our President. We have in the past and may in the future continue to experience changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which may be disruptive to our business. We are also substantially dependent on the continued service of our existing development personnel because of their familiarity with the inherent complexities of our application suite and technologies. Many of our personnel do not have employment arrangements that require these personnel to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees or groups could seriously harm our business. If we cannot maintain our corporate culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, teamwork, passion and focus on execution that we believe contribute to our success, and our business may be harmed. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, teamwork, passion for customers and focus on execution. As we grow and change, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our corporate culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could also negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel, continue to perform at current levels or otherwise adversely affect our future success. 24 Table of Contents Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on various third-party relationships in order to grow our business. In addition to growing our indirect sales channels, we intend to pursue additional relationships with other third parties, such as technology and content providers and implementation partners. Identifying partners, negotiating and documenting relationships with them require significant time and resources as does integrating third-party content and technology. Our agreements with technology and content providers are typically non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors or from offering competing services. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties, including our partners, to favor their products or services or to prevent or reduce subscriptions to our application suite either by disrupting our relationship with existing customers or by limiting our ability to win new customers. In addition, global economic conditions could adversely affect the businesses of our partners, and it is possible that they may not be able to devote the additional resources we expect to the relationship. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenue could be impaired and our operating results would suffer. Even if we are successful, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in increased customer usage of our application suite or revenue. We rely on a small number of third-party service providers to host and deliver our application suite and any interruptions or delays in services from these third parties could impair the delivery of our application suite and harm our business. We currently host our application suite from eight data centers worldwide. We do not control the operation of these facilities. These facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions, which would have a serious adverse impact on our business. Additionally, our data center agreements are of limited duration and are subject to early termination rights in certain circumstances, and the providers of our data centers have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. As we continue to add data centers and add capacity in our existing data centers, we may transfer data to other locations. Despite precautions taken during this process, any unsuccessful data transfers may impair the delivery of our service. Interruptions in our service or data loss or corruption may cause customers to terminate their agreements and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. Data transfers may also subject us to regional privacy and data protection laws that apply to the transmission of customer data across international borders. We also depend on access to the Internet through third-party bandwidth providers to operate our business. If we lose the services of one or more of our bandwidth providers, or if these providers experience outages, for any reason, we could experience disruption in delivering our application suite or we could be required to retain the services of a replacement bandwidth provider. Our operations also rely heavily on the availability of electricity, which also comes from third-party providers. If we or the third-party data center facilities that we use to deliver our services were to experience a major power outage or if the cost of electricity were to increase significantly, our operations and financial results could be harmed. If we or our third-party data centers were to experience a major power outage, we or they would have to rely on back-up generators, which might not work properly or might not provide an adequate supply during a major power outage. Such a power outage could result in a significant disruption of our business. 25 Table of Contents If our application suite becomes unavailable or otherwise fails to perform properly, our reputation and customer relationships could be harmed, our market share could decline and we could be subject to liability claims. The software used in our application suite is inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors. Any defects in product functionality or that cause interruptions in the availability of our application suite could result in: • lost or delayed market acceptance and sales; • breach of warranty or other contract breach or misrepresentation claims; • sales credits or refunds to our customers; • loss of customers; • diversion of development and customer service resources; and • injury to our reputation. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors might be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that hardware failures or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption, or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. Furthermore, the availability of our application suite could be interrupted by a number of factors, including customers’ inability to access the Internet, the failure of our network or software systems due to human or other error, security breaches or variability in user traffic for our application suite. We may be required to issue credits or refunds or indemnify or otherwise be liable to our customers or third parties for damages they may incur resulting from certain of these events. In addition to potential liability, if we experience interruptions in the availability of our application suite, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers. Our errors and omissions insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our policy may not cover any claim against us for loss of data or other indirect or consequential damages and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management’s attention. We rely on third-party computer hardware and software that may be difficult to replace or which could cause errors or failures of our service. We rely on computer hardware, purchased or leased, and software licensed from third parties in order to deliver our application suite. This hardware and software may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could result in delays in our ability to provide our application suite until equivalent technology is either developed by us or, if available, identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business. In addition, errors or defects in third-party hardware or software used in our application suite could result in errors or a failure of our application suite, which could harm our business. If we are not able to develop enhancements and new features that achieve market acceptance or that keep pace with technological developments, our business could be harmed. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers depends in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing application suite and to introduce new features. The success of any enhancement or new product depends on several factors, including timely completion, adequate quality testing, introduction and market acceptance. Any new feature or module that we develop or acquire may not be 26 Table of Contents introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, contain defects or may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new features or modules or to enhance our existing application suite to meet customer requirements, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Because we designed our application suite to operate on a variety of network, hardware and software platforms using standard Internet tools and protocols, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our application suite to keep pace with changes in Internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies. If we are unable to respond in a timely manner to these rapid technological developments in a cost-effective manner, our application suite may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete and our operating results may be negatively impacted. If we fail to develop widespread brand awareness cost-effectively, our business may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining widespread awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our application suite and attracting new customers. Brand promotion activities may not generate customer awareness or increase revenue, and even if they do, any increase in revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses, we may fail to attract or retain customers necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, or to achieve the widespread brand awareness that is critical for broad customer adoption of our application suite. Because our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our application suite to customers located outside of the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. A key element of our growth strategy is to expand our international operations and develop a worldwide customer base. We have added employees, offices and customers internationally, particularly in Europe, Asia and Australia. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks and competition that are different from those in the United States. Because of our limited experience with international operations, we cannot assure that our international expansion efforts will be successful or that returns on such investments will be achieved in the future. In addition, our international operations may fail to succeed due to other risks inherent in operating businesses internationally, including: • our lack of familiarity with commercial and social norms and customs in international countries which may adversely affect our ability to recruit, retain and manage employees in these countries; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; • the potential diversion of management’s attention to oversee and direct operations that are geographically distant from our U.S. headquarters; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, privacy and data protection laws and regulations; • legal systems in which our ability to enforce and protect our rights may be different or less effective than in the United States and in which the ultimate result of dispute resolution is more difficult to predict; • greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; • higher employee costs and difficulty in terminating non-performing employees; • differences in work place cultures; 27 Table of Contents • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • the need to adapt our application suite for specific countries; • our ability to comply with differing technical and certification requirements outside the United States; • tariffs, export controls and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules; • more limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • adverse tax consequences; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • restrictions on the transfer of funds; and • new and different sources of competition. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our existing and future international operations and seriously impair our overall business. Because competition for our target employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the quality employees we need to support our planned growth. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract and retain high quality personnel. Despite the economic downturn, competition for qualified management, technical and other personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. If we fail to attract and retain qualified employees, our ability to grow our business could be harmed. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our intellectual property. We primarily rely on copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights, and, to a lesser extent, patents. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate or we may be unable to secure intellectual property protection for all of our products and services. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect these rights. Litigation to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could seriously harm our brand and adversely impact our business. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. There is considerable patent and other intellectual property development activity in our industry. Our success depends upon our not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. In the future, we may receive claims that our application suite and underlying technology infringe or violate the claimant’s intellectual property rights. However, we may be unaware of the intellectual property rights of others that may cover some or all of our technology or application suite. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully 28 Table of Contents asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our services, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or business partners in connection with any such litigation and to obtain licenses, modify products, or refund fees, which could further exhaust our resources. In addition, we may pay substantial settlement costs to resolve claims or litigation, whether or not legitimately or successfully asserted against us, which could include royalty payments in connection with any such litigation and to obtain licenses, modify products, or refund fees, which could further exhaust our resources. Even if we were to prevail in the event of claims or litigation against us, any claim or litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our use of open source and third-party technology could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our application suite. We use open source software in our application suite. Although we try to monitor our use of open source software, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market our application suite. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our application suite, to re-engineer our technology or to discontinue offering our application suite in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could cause us to breach contracts, harm our reputation, result in customer losses or claims, increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We also incorporate certain third-party technologies into our application suite and may desire to incorporate additional third-party technologies in the future. Licenses to new third-party technology may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Changes in laws and/or regulations related to the Internet or changes in the Internet infrastructure itself may cause our business to suffer. The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business applications. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting data privacy and the use of the Internet as a commercial medium. In addition, government agencies or private organizations may begin to impose taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the Internet or commerce conducted via the Internet. These laws or charges could limit the growth of Internet-related commerce or communications generally, result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based applications such as ours and reduce the demand for our application suite. The Internet has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, significant user and traffic growth, which has, at times, caused user frustration with slow access and download times. If the Internet infrastructure is unable to support the demands placed on it, or if hosting capacity becomes scarce, our business growth may be adversely affected. Uncertainty in global economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our operations and performance depend on global economic conditions. Challenging or uncertain economic conditions make it difficult for our customers and potential customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and may cause our customers and potential customers to slow or reduce spending on our application suite. Furthermore, during challenging or uncertain economic times, our customers may face difficulties gaining timely access to sufficient credit and experience decreasing cash flow, which could impact their willingness to make purchases and their ability to make timely payments to us. Global economic conditions have in the past and could continue to have an adverse effect on demand for our application suite, including new 29 Table of Contents bookings and renewal and upsell rates, on our ability to predict future operating results, and on our financial condition and operating results. If global economic conditions remain uncertain or deteriorate, it may materially impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our business is subject to changing regulations regarding corporate governance and public disclosure that will increase both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market have imposed a variety of requirements and restrictions on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. In addition, the SEC and Congress are considering additional significant corporate governance-related rules. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Our failure to adequately comply could subject us to liability, costly regulatory or other investigations, claims or litigation. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. For instance, our revenue recognition policies are complex and require us to apply criteria and make judgments that affect the amounts we report in our financial statements. We make judgments based on historical experience and various other estimates and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. However changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. If there are substantial sales of shares of our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. As of December 31, 2010 we had approximately 77.1 million shares of common stock outstanding. Substantially all of our outstanding shares of common stock are freely tradable, subject to volume and other limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act in the case of stockholders who are our “affiliates.” The price of our common stock could decline if there are substantial sales of our common stock or if there is a large number of shares of our common stock available for sale. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. In the event one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could decline. Stock markets in general and the market for technology-related stocks in particular have been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. 30 Table of Contents Delaware law and provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our Board of Directors, including the following: • our Board of Directors is classified into three classes of directors with staggered three-year terms; • only our Chairperson of the Board of Directors, our Chief Executive Officer, our President or a majority of our Board of Directors are authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; • our stockholders can only take action at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; • vacancies on our Board of Directors can be filled only by our Board of Directors and not by our stockholders; • our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; and • advance notice procedures apply for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 