Item 1A. Risk Factors. This report contains statements concerning our future performance, intentions, objectives, plans and expectations that are or may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements." Our ability to do this has been fostered by the Private Securities Litigation Act of 1995, which provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements to encourage companies to provide prospective statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the report. In addition, the Company's status as an exploration and development company without any present revenue producing operations increases the risks involved in an investment in the Company. These factors affecting us include, but are no limited to, the following: 35 PROPOSED OPERATIONS ARE DEPENDENT UPON OUR ABILITY TO RAISE A MATERIAL AMOUNT OF CAPITAL. We are involved in the business of locating, acquiring, exploring, developing and operating mineral prospects and properties and have no present revenue producing operations. Our present contractual obligations require that we expend a total of approximately $500,000 over the next 12 months, to complete our minimum investments in the Chinese venture. We also plan to execute and complete a drilling program on our Panama site which will require an additional $5,000,000 over the next 12 months. In addition, there is no assurance that the expenditures of these funds will develop any of our mineral prospects to the point they may become revenue producing. The time and capital required for the exploration and development of production from mineral properties are intensive. Even if the results of our exploration and development activities are successful, we may still face material additional capital requirements to be able to achieve economical operations. In addition, due to the current condition of the illiquid capital markets, we may face additional challenges in raising a material amount of capital. WE HAVE NO PRESENT SOURCE OF REVENUE AND ARE DEPENDENT UPON RAISING ADDITIONAL CAPITAL TO FINANCE CONTINUED OPERATIONS. We have no present source of revenue. The lack of successful results in our exploration program of Zhaoyuan Co. has eliminated our only immediate potential source of revenue. We are dependent upon our ability to raise additional capital to finance our operations including our administrative operating costs which are estimated at $7,000,000 for the 12 months commencing January 1, 2009. Under our present program, it will likely be several years before we develop any revenue, even if our mineral exploration programs are successful, of which there is no assurance. OUR COMMITMENTS TO REGISTER SHARES FOR SALE BY SELLING SHAREHOLDERS WILL ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO RAISE NECESSARY CAPITAL. We have contractual commitments to file a Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933 for the sale by certain of our shareholders of 6,093,333 shares of outstanding common stock and 2,807,500 shares of common stock underlying warrants issued or to be issued. In addition, we have agreed to include additional shares of common stock in any such Registration Statement for other outstanding shares or shares underlying warrants or convertible notes on a "piggyback basis." The offering of these shares under the Registration Statement will adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred $25,600 in penalties for failing to register the shares issued to Bellhaven, pursuant to the Exploration and Development Agreement. WE FACE A SIGNIFICANT RISK OF THE LOSS OF OUR INVESTMENTS IN OUR CHINA PROJECTS. We have invested $500,000 in the Zhaoyuan Co. joint venture and $500,000 in the Tianjin Empire joint venture. The results of the exploration program of the Zhoyuan Co. were negative and unless further geological work is successful or it can find another mineral prospect in the area, the venture will be terminated. The failure of the Institute (our Chinese partner in the Tianjin venture) to transfer mineral properties has imperiled the future of this venture. There is a significant risk that we may lose both of these investments. 36 ALL OF OUR PRESENT OPERATIONS ARE IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES WITH RESULTANT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. Our present mineral operations are in the PRC and Panama. Accordingly, we are subject to risks and uncertainties involved in such foreign operations including: · Difficulties in language communications and these arising out of cultural differences may adversely effect our operations; · The laws of the PRC and Panama will govern our material agreements and operations. Their systems of laws and the enforcement thereof may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as those in the United States; · Substantially all of our non-cash assets will be located outside of the United States. Accordingly, we may not be able to enforce any judgments of any United States courts predicated upon United States laws on state laws, including securities laws; · The value of the "Renminbi" ("RMB") fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC's political and economic conditions. The conversion of RMB into foreign currencies such as the United States dollar has be generally based on rates set by the People's Bank of China, which are set daily based on the previous day's interbank foreign exchange market rates and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. The official exchange rate had remained stable over the past several years. However, the PRC recently adopted a floating rate with respect to the RMB, with a 0.3% fluctuation. While most of the Company's business conducted inside the PRC will use the RMB, changes in the exchange rate between it and other currencies may have a material adverse effect on our business; and · The RMB is not presently a freely convertible currency, and the restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside the PRC or to make dividends or other payments in the U.S. dollar. The PRC government strictly regulates conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Over the years, foreign exchange regulations in the PRC have significantly reduced the government's control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts. In the PRC, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange ("SAFE") regulates the conversion of the RMB into foreign currencies. We believe we will be required to apply for "Foreign Exchange" remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends and other distributions and such may be affected without requiring the approval of SAFE. However, even then, some items as direct investments, loans, securities, and the like still require the approval of SAFE. We may not be able to obtain a certificate or the current foreign exchange measures may be changed in a way that will make payment of dividends and other distributions outside China more difficult or unlawful. In that case, of we intend to distribute profits outside of the PRC, we may not be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to do so. 37 THE MINERAL INDUSTRY IS SUBJECT TO INTENSIVE AND INCREASING GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. All of our mineral operations will be subject to intensive and increasing governmental regulations, including those involving environmental, labor, waste management, environmental restoration, property ownership rights, and health and safety matters. Our Chinese operations are subject to the supervisory and administrative laws and regulations administered and/or issued by the Ministry of Land and Resources of the PRC and by the geology and mineral resources departments of the respective provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities in which properties are located. Exploration activities are conducted under licenses granted under the “Administrative Measures on Registration of Tenement of Mineral Resources Exploration and Survey” which also provides for supervising and taxing those activities. The “Administrative Measures on Registration of Mineral Resources Exploration” regulates mining activities, including their licensing, supervision and taxation. These two laws require that all exploration and mining activities comply with all national and local laws and regulations governing labor safety, water and soil conservation, land reclamation and environmental protection. See Chinese Regulations above. The operations being conducted in Panama on the Cerro Chorcha prospect by Cuprum are subject to the laws of Panama relating to mineral activities and to the terms of the exclusive exploration agreement included as part of the Panamanian mineral concession. See Panamanian Regulations above. Compliance with the applicable regulations, which are only likely to increase in the future, may adversely impact mining operations and their results. Since we will be operating in foreign jurisdictions, these adverse effects may be magnified. WE WILL BE DEPENDENT UPON THE SERVICES OF OTHERS IN OUR MINERAL OPERATIONS. We will be dependent upon the services of others, including our joint venture partners and independent third parties in our exploration, development and mining operations. Our activities will be limited to supervision of and raising capital for the mineral activities. This diminished control over daily activities may adversely affect our operations. WE HAVE NO PRESENT ESTABLISHED ECONOMIC ORE RESERVES AND NO ASSURANCE WE CAN DEVELOP ANY. There are no established economic ore reserves on any of the properties involved in our ventures. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop any such reserves; or that, if reserves are developed, we ill be able to mine them profitability, due to insufficient capital or otherwise. 38 IF WE DEFINE AN ECONOMIC ORE RESERVE AND ACHIEVE PRODUCTION, IT WILL DECLINE IN THE FUTURE AS AN ORE RESERVE IS A WASTED ASSET. Our future ore reserve and production, if any, will decline as a result of the exhaustion of reserves and possible closure of any mine that might be developed. Eventually, at some unknown time in the future, all of the economically extractable ore will be removed from the properties, and there will be no ore remaining. This is called depletion of reserves. Ultimately, we must acquire or operate other properties in order to continue as an ongoing business. MINERAL MARKET PRICES ARE SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATIONS WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. If we are successful in developing any mineral properties, our ability to operate at a profit will be dependent on the then existing market price of the involved mineral. Declines in the market prices of the involved mineral may render reserves containing relatively low grades of ore uneconomic to exploit, and we may be required to discontinue exploration, development or mining on the properties, or write down our assets. We cannot predict the future market price of minerals and we may not be able to survive in a declining market situation. THE CERRO CHORCHA PROSPECT IS AN EXPLORATION PROSPECT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED RESERVES. The Cerro Chorcha property is an exploration prospect without any established reserves. We have relied, in part, on a pre-feasibility study the property prepared for Bellhaven and Cuprum in our evaluation of it. These are significant risks involved in so relying on results of a pre-feasibility study, including: · The limited amount of drilling work underlying the study; · Any process testing done is limited to small pilot plants and/or bench scale testing; · There are normally difficulties obtaining expected metallurgical recoveries when you are scaling up to production scale from a pilot plant; · The preliminary nature of the sine and processing concepts; · The lack of accuracy in preliminary cost estimates; · The actual metallurgical recoveries made; and · The history of pre-feasibility studies of typically underestimating capital and operating costs. 39 THE CERRO CHORCHA PROJECT INVOLVES A LARGE EXPLORATION PROPERTY IN AN ISOLATED UNDEVELOPED AREA REQUIRING LARGE TIME EFFORT AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURES. The Cerro Chorcha property is a large exploration prospect located in an isolated undeveloped area. The exploration program will require the expenditure of large amounts of capital over a period of several years. If the results of the initial exploration work are satisfactory, we will have to build access roads to and on the property to be able to complete the exploration program. If the completed exploration program is successful, we will then be faced with the necessity to complete the planning for the development of the property to the extent necessary to support a final or bankable feasibility study. During this period we will be subject to the potential adverse impact of factors beyond our control on the project; i.e., the decline in the price of the targeted minerals. DEVELOPING OPPOSITION TO MINING ACTIVITIES IN PANAMA BY ENVIRONMENTAL GROUPS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY’S CERRO CHORCHA PROJECT Panama is experiencing a developing opposition to mining activities by environmental groups. These activities have increased in response to alleged illegal environmentally damaging activities by other mining entities. Although the Company’s plans call for its activities to be conducted in not only a legal manner but an environmentally friendly one, its activities may be impeded or adversely affected by this growing mining opposition movement. WE HAVE NOT OBTAINED AN APPROVED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDY FROM PANAMA’S NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL AUTHORITY On December 13, 2008, Cuprum submitted the Environmental Impact Study (“EIS”) for approval to the Autoridad Nacional del Ambiente of Panama (“ANAM”). On March 9, 2009, ANAM rejected the EIS for various reasons. The EIS was resubmitted for approval to ANAM on March 15, 2009, and is pending approval. The Company may not commence its drilling operations until the EIS is approved. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 