D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have experienced significant growth, which has placed a substantial strain on our resources. The failure to successfully implement our growth strategy could adversely affect our ability to continue to grow or sustain our revenues and profitability. As part of our growth strategy, we acquired one of our principal competitors, 012 Golden Lines on December 31, 2006. Our total assets increased to NIS 1,603 million ($422 million) as at December 31, 2008 from NIS 1554 million as at December 31, 2007. Our revenues increased to NIS 1,106.2 million ($291 million) for the year ended December 31, 2008 from NIS 1,102.9 million ($290.1 million) for the year ended December 31, 2007 and NIS 343.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to our acquisition of 012 Golden Lines as of December 31, 2006. We experienced significant growth prior to the acquisition of 012 Golden Lines, as our revenues increased to NIS 343.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from NIS 244.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our organic growth and the acquisition of 012 Golden Lines have placed, and are likely to continue to place, a significant strain on our management as well as our operational, administrative and financial resources and our internal controls. The demand on our network infrastructure, technical and customer support staff and other resources has grown with our expanding customer base and is expected to continue to grow as we expand our business. Our infrastructure, technical and customer support staff, operational and billing systems and other resources may not adequately accommodate or facilitate the growth of our business. 2 Another part of our growth strategy is managing and reducing the costs associated with delivering our services, including recurring service costs such as communications and customer support costs as well as expenses incurred to add new customers, such as sales and marketing, installation and hardware costs. We may not be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could affect our ability to generate revenues, control expenses and sustain or increase our profitability. The recent change in regulatory limitations on Bezeq The Israel Telecommunications Corp. Ltd. will likely result in increased competition, and may result in a reduction in our revenues from interconnect fees. Bezeq The Israel Telecommunications Corp. Ltd. or Bezeq, the incumbent local telephony provider, is subject to several regulatory limitations, including restrictions on its ability to provide bundled service offerings, restrictions to entry into the VoB market and supervised tariffs. Under its license, Bezeq is also subject to the principle of structural separation in providing its various communication services. According to the policy of the Ministry of Communications, once Bezeq’s market share of domestic fixed-line telephony in a particular customer segment (business or private) falls below 85%, Bezeq’s license will be amended so as to enable it to submit an application for the Minister of Communication’s approval to market a basket of services (including broadcast services) in that customer segment, which includes telecommunications services provided by Bezeq and by a subsidiary. The Minister of Communication’s approval to market a basket of services will be granted based on the status of competition in the area of telecommunications or broadcasts and will be subject to certain conditions set forth in the policy. According to the announcement of the Ministry of Communications on August 25, 2008, as at June 2008, Bezeq’s market share declined in the fixed-line telephony sector (private sector) to below 85% in terms of normative revenue. The Ministry of Communications subsequently announced that Bezeq’s share of the fixed-line phone market had declined sufficiently to permit it to seek authority to offer a package of services, with respect to the residential sector. According to the announcement of the Ministry of Communications on May 31, 2009, in November 2008, Bezeq’s market share was 80.7% in the residential sector and 86.6% in the business sector. Additionally, commencing November 2008, the Ministry of Communications measured the market share using a new format recommended by the Gronau Committee, which provides that regular lines and traffic lines must be measured separately. In accordance with the new measuring system, Bezeq’s market share based on normative income is 79.2% for regular lines and 81.2% for traffic lines. Accordingly, Bezeq applied to the Ministry of Communications to begin providing bundled services, which could potentially include local and international telephony, broadband Internet access, Internet service provider, or ISP, services, cellular services and multi-channel TV. On July 3, 2008, Bezeq received a draft amendment of its license and the licenses of its subsidiary companies, Pelephone, Bezeq International and D.B.S. Satellite Services (1998) Ltd., regarding the marketing of joint service packages. In July 2008, Bezeq submitted its position to the Ministry of Communications, stating that the amendment of the licenses represents an intensification of regulation in comparison to the policy document of the Minister of Communications dated March 31, 2004, which is supposed to reflect relief for Bezeq, and it would be appropriate to allow a model for marketing of joint packages of services that represents relief for Bezeq now that its market share has decreased to 85% or less, together with ministerial supervision using more moderate measures than those proposed in the draft amendment to the license. On January 22, 2009, draft amendments to the general licenses of Bezeq and its subsidiaries were submitted to such companies and published on the website of the Ministry of Communications. The amendments addressed the approval for marketing of the joint packages. On February 8, 2009, Bezeq submitted its position, stating that its material remarks were not reflected in the draft, without explanation. Bezeq requested material amendments to the first draft amendment. The Ministry of Communications is presently conducting several hearings that may lead to additional amendments to Bezeq and its subsidiaries’ licenses that will allow them to offer such bundled services. In the event the Ministry of Communications allows the Bezeq group to bundle services, this may increase Bezeq’s competitive position in the communication market and increase its direct competition with us, in a manner that may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 3 Bezeq pays us interconnect fees with respect to calls being made from Bezeq fixed-lines to our VoB lines. Bezeq has raised the claim that it should not be required to pay us interconnect fees because we use its infrastructure. Although the Ministry of Communications has determined that Bezeq should pay us interconnect fees for calls originated from Bezeq fixed-lines to our lines at the same tariff as we pay Bezeq, this determination will be reviewed by the Ministry of Communications by the end of 2009, and there is no certainty that the Ministry of Communications will not reverse its determination that Bezeq should pay us interconnect fees at then current rates or at all. In February 2009, the Minister of Communications granted a VoB service operation license to B.I.P. Communication Solutions, a Bezeq International subsidiary. The license will enable Bezeq to deliver telephony services over broadband (VoB) to private customers. Additionally, once Bezeq’s market share of the business sector of domestic telephony market goes below 85%, Bezeq International may also be able to provide this service to business clients as a separate or bundled service. If the Ministry of Communications releases Bezeq from the prevailing regulatory limitations, it would enjoy a competitive advantage because it will be able to bundle services through its affiliates or in conjunction with a third party. This could result in Bezeq becoming an even stronger competitor. Bezeq currently has an advantageous position in the market because it has a dominant presence in all segments of the communications market and can easily provide its customers with access to a great variety of services. The Ministry of Communications will also examine the competitive position of D.B.S. Satellite Services (1998) Ltd., which operates under the trade name YES, and it may allow it to enter the VoB market if its competitive position deteriorates. Changes in the regulatory and legal compliance environment could adversely affect our operations and business activities and could result in increased competition and reduced revenues and profitability. We operate in a highly regulated industry in Israel, which limits our flexibility in managing our business. We are subject to regulation regarding communications licenses, antitrust and arrangements pertaining to interconnection and leased lines. Our business and operations could be adversely affected by decisions by regulators, in particular the Ministry of Communications as well as changes in laws, regulations or government policy affecting our business activities, such as the following: — The recent deregulation of the certain monopoly restrictions imposed on Bezeq, Israel's incumbent telephony operator, and its affiliates; — The recent deregulation of the restriction imposed on Bezeq and its affiliates, including D.B.S. Satellite Services (1998) Ltd. (which operates under the trade name YES), Israel’s sole satellite television service provider, that permits Bezeq’s affiliates to provide VoB services; — Changing the restrictions imposed on cellular operators that will allow them to provide international telephony services in the future; — Changing the regulation that requires the incumbent infrastructure providers Bezeq and HOT to allow us “open access” enabling us to provide broadband and traditional voice services, or deregulating the restrictions that currently prevent them from charging us for the use of their infrastructure; — Changing the regulations affecting our interconnection arrangements with other operators; — Changing call termination tariffs; — Limiting the prices that we may charge our customers; — Broadening or increasing the range of revenues on which royalties are paid; — Changing the regulations affecting our international and local telephony business; and — Changing the regulations affecting our on-going relationships with customers under fixed-term contracts. Such actions could result in increased competition and expenses, and reduced revenues and profitability. The current legislation in Israel grants the Ministry of Communications extensive regulatory and supervisory authority with respect to our business, as well as the authority to impose substantial sanctions, such as fines. As a result, the interpretation and implementation of laws and regulations as well as provisions of our licenses are subject to the administrative discretion of the Ministry of Communications. 4 Further risks and uncertainties result from the fact that changes in such laws, regulations or government policies may not be adopted or implemented in the manner that we expect and may be further amended, interpreted or enforced in an unexpected manner or in a manner adverse to our business. We depend on maintaining and renewing our existing regulatory licenses in order to fully conduct our business. Our inability to maintain and renew our existing licenses would negatively impact our operations, revenues and profitability. Our ability to offer our broadband and traditional voice services depends on our ability to maintain and renew the licenses we have received from the Ministry of Communications. Although we are entitled to renew our licenses, such licenses are subject to many terms and conditions. Any renewal or extension is subject to the discretion of the Ministry of Communications and may be renewed or extended, if at all, on terms materially different to the terms under which we now operate. Any such change in the terms and conditions of our licenses may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our licenses may be suspended or revoked by the Ministry of Communications if we default under or violate their terms. Each license requires us to adhere to certain requirements, which include the scope of services to be provided under the license, the amount of royalties to be paid to the Ministry of Communications, technical standards employed by us in providing the services, maintenance and support procedures and protocols, our communications with customers and information to be provided to the Ministry of Communications on a regular basis. The regulations promulgated under the Israeli Communications Law, 1982, or the Communications Law, restrict ownership of our shares and who can serve as our directors. The regulations provide that a majority of our directors must be Israeli citizens and residents, Israeli citizens and residents must own at least 20% of our outstanding share capital and must have the right to appoint at least 20% of our directors. In addition, our licenses provide that, without the approval of the Ministry of Communications, no person may acquire shares representing 10% or more of our outstanding share capital. If these requirements are not complied with, we will be found to be in breach of our licenses and our licenses could be changed, suspended or revoked, and we may also incur substantial fines. See Item 4B. “Information on the Company – Business Overview – Government Regulation – General – Licenses and Applications.” While we believe that we are currently in compliance with all material requirements of our licenses, the technical standards used to measure these requirements as well as other license provisions are subject to interpretation and we cannot be certain of our compliance. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that our licenses will not be revoked, will be extended when necessary, or, if extended, on what terms an extension may be granted. The current global financial crisis may have a negative impact on our business and financial condition. The current worldwide economic crisis has created significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, which may adversely affect our customers’ ability to purchase our services and fulfill their obligations to us. Additionally, many of the effects and consequences of the current global financial crisis and a broader global economic downturn are currently unknown; any one or all of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our or our customers’ liquidity and capital resources, or otherwise negatively impact our business and financial results. The Israeli economy has recently experienced a slowing of its growth rate. This slow down has been exacerbated by the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, which has resulted in significant volatility and dislocation in the global capital markets. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and what adverse impact it will have on the global economy in general and the Israeli economy in particular. The industry in which we operate is dynamic, and we will need to seek additional licenses in the future. Our inability to obtain any such new license may negatively impact our growth opportunities and revenues. The communications industry is constantly evolving. New technologies and processes may require additional licenses from the Ministry of Communications. Our ability to introduce new services depends upon our ability to receive the appropriate licenses. Our introduction of any new licensed services under an existing license must be authorized by the Ministry of Communications and is subject to a review period of up to 60 days, which period may be extended by the Ministry of Communications. Such review may cause us to lose critical time in bringing new services to market. Furthermore, the Ministry of Communications may refuse to allow us to introduce such new services or make the introduction of the services subject to various conditions. 5 In 2007, the Ministry of Communications engaged NERA, an international consulting firm, to review the level of competition in Israel’s cellular market and to review whether to allow the entry of new operators, including MVNOs, into the Israeli telecommunications market. Based on the findings of their review, the Ministry of Communications has begun conducting hearings regarding a draft MVNO license and regulations. In March 2008, the Grunau Committee, a public commission appointed in 2006 by the Ministry of Communications to review various issues in the Israeli communications market, published its recommendations which included a recommendation, among other things, to accelerate the procedures necessary to allow the entry of MVNOs into the cellular market. In January 2009, the Ministry of Communications prepared draft guidelines incorporating the main conditions and requirements necessary to apply for an MVNO license. The Ministry of Communications has invited potential entrepreneurs, licensees, vendors, experts on economics, technology, law and communications, consumer organizations, user and operator unions, other relevant parties as well as the general public, to present their positions on the draft license and its conditions and requirements. We have applied to the Ministry of Communications for a full MVNO license according to the principles it published although the final regulatory framework for the grant of such a license has not yet been established. Our inability to obtain any new license, including an MVNO license, or to introduce new services under an existing license, may negatively impact our growth opportunities and revenues. We operate in the highly competitive communications industry with existing participants and potential participants that have significant resources and customers, and a regulatory authority that has encouraged new entrants, which could intensify price competition, increase our expenses and limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share. We are subject to intense competition, which we expect will continue in the future. Moreover, our services are subject to regulation by the Ministry of Communications, whose policy is to encourage new entrants and not limit the number of licenses, which may continue to increase competition and may lead to further reductions in prices and fees charged to customers. The Ministry of Communications has encouraged new entrants into the broadband access market. HOT, the incumbent local cable provider that offers cable-modem access, has been legally permitted since March 2002 to provide Internet services through its affiliates, but has chosen not to do so. While we cannot predict if or when HOT will become an ISP, its entry into the market could significantly harm our competitive position in the broadband access market. In March 2008, the Gronau Committee, which was appointed by the Ministry of Communications to consider and recommend the best means to promote further sustainable competition in the Israeli communications market, issued its recommendation to the Minister of Communications. The Gronau Committee’s recommendations call for several structural changes within the communications markets, including local loop unbundling of Bezeq’s infrastructure, which, if accepted and implemented, would allow us to compete in the MVNO and IPTV sectors and improve our competitive position in the VoB business market, while worsening our position in other segments, by allowing the cellular operators in Israel to compete in the traditional long distance telephony market. On August 20, 2008, Israel’s Minister of Communications issued his decision to implement the recommendations of the Gronau Committee to increase competition in the communication market. When implemented, we expect that this will result in the following: — Increased competition within the Israel cellular communication market by granting MVNO licenses; — Cellular operators will not be allowed to enter the international long distance market unless an international communication services provider will be granted an MVNO license, subject to changes in the tariffs for the international calls made by cellular phone users; — Increased competition within the landline communication services as a result of enforcing local loop unbundling of the infrastructure of Bezeq. Following such local loop unbundling, Bezeq’s subsidiaries will be allowed to offer bundled services, subject to several additional terms and conditions. Based on the experience of operators elsewhere and according to the conclusions of the report prepared for the Ministry of Communications by a leading international consulting company, we assume that the entry of a MVNO (a mobile virtual network operator) using the frequencies and antennas of an existing mobile operator will lead to increased competition in Israel. The entry of additional operators into the mobile sector may alter the balance that has prevailed among the cellular operators in recent years and increased competition will ultimately result in lower prices for consumers. The entry of additional mobile operators into this market may increase the competition among the companies in the sector and encourage them to provide more attractive offers to their customers. 6 In addition, the Ministry of Communications recently announced its intention to increase competition in the cellular market by granting a cellular license to a new cellular operator in Israel. In May 2009, the Ministry of Communications appointed an integrated tender committee to perform a public tender for the allocation of new third generation frequencies for a new cellular operator and for the grant of a cellular license to a new cellular operator. We are currently reviewing our possibilities with regards to such tender. The Ministry of Communications has also encouraged new entrants into the international telephony services sub-sector. Israel’s cellular operators are currently not licensed to provide international telephony services. If this situation were to change, competition would be further intensified and could require us to lower our prices, grant incentives to customers, increase selling and marketing expenses and related customer acquisition costs and could also result in increased customer churn. These developments could create a more formidable competitor offering bundled international telephony, broadband Internet access, data, local telephony and mobile services, which could harm our competitive position. We expect other competitors, including companies that are not presently engaged in local and international telephony, will provide VoB services in the future when they receive the appropriate licenses from the Ministry of Communications, which could adversely impact our ability to increase our market share. In the future, we may face additional competition for our services from cellular operators in Israel, such as Cellcom, Partner and Pelephone, all of which have received ISP licenses, and from international ISPs. During December 2008 and January 2009, Partner entered into the ISP and VoB markets and launched its new portfolio of services, which include ISP services, e-mail access, Wi-Fi, fixed telephony through VoB technology and web-based entertainment multimedia services. We also compete against established alternative voice communication providers, such as Skype (a service of eBay Inc.), which are not subject to licensing restrictions in Israel, as well as independent voice over Internet protocol, or VoIP, service providers that may choose to sacrifice revenue in order to gain market share and may offer their services at lower prices or for free. Such competitive environment could intensify price competition and limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share of the local telephony market. Our hubbing services are subject to a high degree of volatility and any further reduction in our hubbing services could significantly reduce our revenues. The profitability of our hubbing services business is driven by the needs of our customers whose demand for hubbing services is constantly fluctuating. In late 2007, we reduced our hubbing services business because of its lower operating margin. As a result, our hubbing services business declined significantly beginning in the last fiscal quarter of 2007 and reached a stable level of quarterly revenues during 2008, which we expect to maintain going forward. Our hubbing services business might be subject to a certain degree of volatility and could result in fluctuations in our reported revenues and net income on a quarterly basis. We operate in a market which already exhibits maturity and high user penetration, and we may have to offer price reductions and increase marketing efforts to attract and retain customers, which may have a negative impact on our profitability. The Israeli communications market is mature, with both traditional voice and broadband access being particularly competitive segments of the communications market. Our future revenues will depend significantly on our ability to retain existing customers, to sell those customers additional services, such as local telephony, to offer a wide range of enhanced communications services on an individual basis or as part of a bundle of multiple services, and to attract new customers from other providers. We may not be successful in such efforts. In addition, the competitive market environment has required us in the past and may require us in the future to adopt an aggressive marketing policy in order to attract a greater number of customers, including reducing our rates. If adopted in the future, we cannot be certain that this strategy will be successful. Price reductions caused by increased competition, as well as the expenses associated with the marketing efforts required to attract and retain customers, may have a negative impact on our profitability. 7 We are reliant on our senior management team and our managers and employees, and a loss of any key member of our senior management or the inability to retain highly qualified managers and employees could have an adverse effect on our future operations and profitability. Our future development is dependent upon our present and prospective management team, including Eli Holtzman, our vice chairman, Stella Handler, our chief executive officer, and Doron Ilan, our chief financial officer and vice president finance. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our officers or employees. The loss of any key member of our senior management for any reason may have an adverse effect on our operations and profitability. In addition, our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managers and employees. Competition for highly-skilled engineers and managers is intense in the industry in which we operate, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified engineers and mangers to fulfill our current or future needs. This could adversely impact our operations and financial performance. We may be subject to fines or face claims of being in violation of the Israeli Communications Law or in violation of the Ministry of Communications’ number portability plan, which could adversely affect our profitability. As a result of an amendment to the Israeli Communications Law in March 2005, international, cellular and landline telephony operators were required to implement number portability by September 1, 2006. Number portability permits local telephony subscribers to change to another network operator without having to change their telephone numbers. Despite efforts to introduce the requisite technology and coordinate the transition to number portability by September 1, 2006, none of the operators were able to implement number portability. On May 24, 2007, all of the cellular and landline telephony operators, including us and our subsidiary, 012 Telecom, our landline telephony operator, were notified by the Ministry of Communications that failure to implement the number portability program constituted a continued violation of the Israeli Communications Law and the number portability plan published by the Ministry of Communications in August 2005. We were notified that the Ministry of Communications is considering imposing fines of NIS 2,032,750 (approximately $535,650) and additional daily fines of NIS 6,450 ($1,700), beginning May 25, 2007. We submitted our response to the notifications on July 5, 2007 and implemented number portability in December 2007. In November 2008, the Ministry of Communications asked us to provide actual details with respect to the implementation dates of the number portability in our systems. To date, the Ministry of Communications has not imposed any fines. Our VoB services are not the same as traditional voice services and may not be adopted by mainstream customers, which could harm our future growth. Our VoB services are not the same as traditional voice services. The quality of our VoB service is dependent to a great measure on the quality of broadband access provided by Bezeq and HOT, over which we have no control. Among the differences between our VoB service and traditional voice services are: — If our customers experience a loss of power, our services will be interrupted. — Our VoB services will be interrupted if our customers experience interruption in broadband access. — Depending on the quality of the broadband access provided to our customers, they may experience lower call quality than that experienced over traditional fixed-line telephones, including static, echoes and delays in transmission. If customers do not accept these differences between our service and traditional voice service, they may choose to continue using traditional voice services or may choose to return to services provided by traditional telephone companies. The growth of our VoB business is dependent on the adoption of our services by mainstream customers and therefore, the rate of adoption may have a significant effect on our growth. Our operations depend on our ability to successfully expand and upgrade our network and integrate new technologies and equipment into our network. Any future system failures or difficulty in expanding or upgrading our network, or making new features available, could increase our expenses and negatively impact our financial results. Capacity constraints within our networks and those of our suppliers have occurred in the past and will likely occur in the future. As the number of our customers using broadband services and the amount and type of information they wish to transmit over the Internet increases, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, processing systems and network infrastructure, which could be expensive and involve substantial management resources and capital expenditures. We do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of any such increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure in a timely and cost-efficient manner. Any future system failures or difficulty in expanding or upgrading our network, or making new features available could increase our expenses and negatively impact our financial results. 8 The broadband and traditional voice services markets are subject to rapid technological change, which could adversely affect our ability to compete and increase our expenses. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing and converging technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new service announcements, introductions and enhancements and changing customer demands. New services and technologies may be superior to the services or technologies that we use and may render our services and technologies obsolete or require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or technologies. The development and expansion of our services is dependent upon adopting new technologies and updating our systems to meet new standards. This can be a lengthy process involving long and complex evaluations and decision-making procedures that can continue over a number of months or even years. Our future success will depend on our ability to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our broadband and traditional voice services in response to competitive service offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. The cost of implementing major infrastructure upgrade projects may fluctuate due to a number of variables over which we have little or no control, and even though we estimate the cost of such projects based on our previous experience, costs may exceed our estimations. Such fluctuations may be due to a lengthy or complex implementation process and/or the lack of commitment of sufficient resources of, or delays caused by, the ultimate supplier and could increase our expenses and have a negative impact on our results of operations or financial performance. If we do not successfully continue to develop our brand, we may be unable to attract a sufficient number of customers to our services to maintain or increase our market share or to recover our selling and marketing expenses, which could harm our future revenues or our ability to implement our growth strategy and our net income may be adversely affected. We believe that we must maintain and strengthen awareness of our 012 Smile brand. If we do not successfully continue to develop our brand, we may be unable to attract additional customers and increase our market share. Brand recognition may become even more important in the future if competition increases in the communications market. We intend to continue to pursue a brand-enhancement strategy, which may include mass market and multimedia advertising, promotional programs, public relations activities and joint marketing programs. These initiatives will involve significant expenses. If our brand enhancement strategy is unsuccessful, we may not be able to attract additional customers, our sales and marketing expenses may never be recovered and we may be unable to increase future revenues or implement our growth strategy and our net income may be adversely affected. We are dependent on certain suppliers and if any of our arrangements with these suppliers are terminated, we may not be able to replace them on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. We rely on a number of third-party computer systems, networks and service providers, including local and international telephony and cable companies. All broadband Internet access by our customers is, and will continue to be, connected through the infrastructure of local access providers, Bezeq and HOT, and is dependent on the open access policy of the Ministry of Communications. At present, the Ministry of Communications does not permit HOT and Bezeq to charge us for use of their infrastructure. If such restriction is deregulated, we may incur substantial costs, which may adversely affect our profitability. Our ISP services are also dependent on the communications infrastructure owned and maintained by local access providers. Bezeq has suffered work stoppages on several occasions in recent years as a result of conflicts with its unionized employees. These work stoppages resulted in several days of interruption to the services we provide. In addition, Bezeq, HOT and other infrastructure providers have suffered technical network failures in the past. A disruption in our customer access to Israel’s fixed-line communications infrastructure could significantly impact the services that we provide to our customers. An increase in our cost of access to Israel’s fixed-line communications infrastructure could adversely impact our results of operations. We also depend on third parties for the physical repair and maintenance of leased lines. If an interruption or deterioration in the performance of these third-party services occurs, our services may be disrupted. Many of our services are dependent on the submarine infrastructure made available by Med Nautilus, owned by Telecom Italia, which connects countries bordering the Mediterranean Sea to all major Western European countries and to the United States. Med Nautilus has an effective monopoly over the provision of international submarine services to the Israeli communications industry. Although prices in respect of maintenance and current capacity are agreed to on a long-term basis and our contract with Med Nautilus sets out the prices to be paid by us for additional capacity for approximately two years, Med Nautilus has the ability to raise prices without us being able to seek an alternative supplier for additional capacity. 9 Many of our relationships with third party providers are terminable upon short notice. In addition, many of our third party suppliers and communications carriers sell or lease services to our competitors and may be, or in the future may become, competitors themselves. If any of our arrangements with third parties is terminated, we may not be able to replace them on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. We are exposed to risks relating to our network infrastructure and are dependent on services we receive from our external suppliers. If the level of service we receive from our external suppliers decreases, we may not be able to maintain the quality and breadth of our services, which could reduce our revenues and harm our operations. Our network platform is highly complex. Multiple faults occurring at the same time could severely affect our service. Although our engineering staff is trained to operate and maintain our systems, there are numerous functions that they are unable to perform without external support. In addition, if the level of service we receive from our external suppliers decreases, it may adversely impact our ability to properly maintain and operate our systems and therefore have a direct effect on our service. Also, as VoB technology continues to evolve, we will be faced with the risks associated with the use of new software. We do not have a direct network connection to all the possible call destinations around the world and depend on our business partners to connect calls generated by our customers to their final destinations worldwide. Our level of service is largely dependent on the level of service we receive from our international partners with respect to both call completion as well as call quality. Although we make extensive efforts to ensure quality of the calls as well as the breadth of our services, we cannot be sure that our partners will provide an adequate level of service, that we would be able to successfully replace a partner should that become necessary or that we will be able to maintain and increase the quality and breadth of our services. We may be subject to challenges to our trademarks and may lose our ability to use key third party intellectual property rights, which could negatively impact our operations and harm our future growth. We have various trademarks, trade secrets and copyrightable materials, as well as licenses to use third party software and trademarks. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, our business and financial results could suffer. There is no guarantee that trademarks we use will not be subject to infringement proceedings or that we will obtain registration of other trademarks for which we may seek protection in the future. We hold licenses to use various third party software and hardware products. We cannot guarantee that renewal of these licenses or any licenses for additional software or hardware that may be required to operate our business will be available as needed. While our third party licensors have represented to us that they have the right to license their software and hardware, and in some cases have agreed to provide indemnification, we cannot guarantee that our use of third party software and hardware does not infringe the rights of others. Application for some of our trademarks and service marks containing the SMILE logo were opposed in the past. While the opposition proceeding was terminated due to the failure of the opponent to file evidence, there is no assurance that oppositions or cancellation proceeding challenging the registration of such marks will not be filed in the future. Any infringement claims, even if unsuccessful, could result in damage to our reputation and the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Our products and services may become obsolete, and we may not be able to develop competitive products or services on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our ability to compete and our financial results. The communications services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, competitive pricing, frequent new service introductions, evolving industry standards and changing regulatory requirements. Each of these development efforts faces a number of continuing technological and operational challenges. We believe that our success depends on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these and other challenges and to offer competitive services on a timely basis. We face a number of difficulties and uncertainties associated with our reliance on future technological development, such as: — Other service providers may use more traditional and commercially proven means to deliver similar or alternative services or use more efficient, less expensive technologies; 10 — Consumers may not subscribe to our services; — We may be unable to respond successfully to advances in competing technologies in a timely and cost-efficient manner; — We may lack the financial and operational resources necessary to enable migration toward mobile technology and the development and deployment of network components and software that do not currently exist and that may require substantial upgrades to or replacements of existing infrastructure; and — Existing, proposed or undeveloped technologies may render our existing or planned services less profitable or obsolete. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption, which could expose us to material risk of loss or litigation and harm our reputation. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, communications failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of Internet vandalism and similar events. Any of these events could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation. In addition, if a computer virus, sabotage or other failure affecting our system is highly publicized, our reputation could be damaged and customer growth could decrease. While we currently have partially redundant systems, we do not have full redundancy, or alternative providers of hosting services. In addition, we do not have a formal disaster recovery plan and do not carry sufficient natural disaster or business interruption insurance to compensate for losses that could occur. We may be exposed to substantial liabilities arising out of our broadband and traditional voice services, which could increase our costs, divert management time and resources and adversely affect our results of operations. The law relating to the liability of ISPs for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within Israel and internationally. Claims by private or governmental entities may be brought against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud or other theories based on the nature and content of information that may be posted online or generated by our customers. Our defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources. In addition, our professional liability insurance policy may not provide sufficient protection or cover all such exposure. Furthermore, new legislation and court decisions may expose us to liabilities or affect our services. Additional laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet, covering issues such as content, user privacy, pricing and other controls. For example, the Ministry of Communications is currently considering the implementation of broadcast content regulation with respect to electronic distribution of video content, including content distributed over the Internet, which would, among other things, block violent and sexual content for the protection of minors. It is also possible that if any information provided directly by us contains errors or is otherwise negligently provided to users, third parties could make claims against us. For example, we offer web-based e-mail services, which expose us to potential risks, such as liabilities or claims resulting from unsolicited e-mail, lost or misdirected messages, illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail, or interruptions or delays in e-mail service. In the event that we are found responsible for any such liability and are required to pay damages, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Even if we ultimately succeed, legal action against us would divert management time and resources, could be costly and is likely to generate negative publicity. We may also be forced to implement costly measures to alter the way our services are provided to avoid any further potential liability. Our VoB emergency calling service is different from the traditional emergency calling service and may expose us to significant liability. Our VoB emergency calling service is different from the traditional emergency calling service in ways that may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers’ receipt of the emergency assistance they need. The only location information that our VoB emergency calling service can transmit to a dispatcher at a public safety answering point is the information that our customers have registered with us. A customer’s registered location may be different from the customer’s actual location at the time of the call because customers can make calls almost anywhere a broadband connection is available. In these instances, emergency callers must verbally advise the operator of their location at the time of the call and, in some cases, provide a call back number so that the call can be handled or forwarded to an appropriate emergency dispatcher. 11 Moreover, if a customer experiences a broadband or power outage, or if a network failure occurs, the customer will not be able to reach an emergency services provider. Customers may attempt to hold us responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result. We may need to raise additional funds in the future, which may subject you to dilution, and may be unable to do so on favorable or acceptable terms or at all, which may harm our ability to expand, develop new or enhanced services, or respond to competitive pressures. If cash generated from our operations is insufficient to meet our operating and strategic needs, we may need to raise additional funds in order to expand, develop new or enhanced services, or respond to competitive pressures. The availability of funds for future expansion and the development of new or enhanced services will depend on a number of factors, including our operating performance, our ability to issue equity and market conditions. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the holdings of our shareholders will be diluted and their ownership percentage will be reduced. Furthermore, new securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our ordinary shares. Additional financing may not be available when and to the extent required or, if available, may not be on acceptable terms. We may be unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its combined subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures, and our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting. Our compliance with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act started in connection with the filing of this annual report on Form 20-F in connection with which our management has assessed and issued a report regarding our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are relatively new and complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our ordinary shares. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Internet Gold and Eurocom Communications Ltd. Because Internet Gold and Eurocom Communications control substantially all the voting power of our ordinary shares, investors will not be able to affect the outcome of any shareholder vote. Internet Gold owned approximately 74.79% of our outstanding ordinary shares, and Eurocom Communications beneficially owned 76.41% of our outstanding ordinary shares, as of June 22, 2009. Mr. Shaul Elovitch, the chairman of our board of directors and the chairman of the board of directors of Internet Gold and its parent, Eurocom Communications, and the controlling shareholder of Eurocom Communications, will be able to exercise control over our operations and business strategy and control the outcome of all matters involving shareholder approval. For as long as Internet Gold has a controlling interest in our company, it, Eurocom Communications and Mr. Elovitch indirectly, will have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to potential mergers or other business combinations involving us, our acquisition or disposition of assets, our incurrence of indebtedness, our issuance of any additional ordinary shares or other equity securities, our repurchase or redemption of ordinary shares and our payment of dividends. Similarly, as long as Eurocom Communications has a controlling interest in Internet Gold, our corporate parent and Mr. Elovitch will have the power to determine or significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the power to elect all of the members of our board of directors (except outside directors), prevent an acquisition or any other change in control of us. Because the interests of Internet Gold and Mr. Elovitch may differ from the interests of our other shareholders, actions taken by Internet Gold with respect to us may not be favorable to our other shareholders. See Item 10B. “Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Association” and Item 7B. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Related Party Transactions.” 12 Conflicts of interest may arise between Internet Gold, Eurocom Communications, other companies within the Eurocom group and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us and result in reduced revenues and income. Conflicts of interest may arise between Internet Gold, Eurocom Communications and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Four of our directors serve as directors of Internet Gold. Areas in which conflicts of interest between Internet Gold, Eurocom Communications and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: — Loss of opportunities. Our relationship with Eurocom Communications may eliminate or reduce some opportunities for revenue growth. Eurocom Communications or its affiliates could, to the extent permitted by law, prevent us from entering into commercial relationships with third parties, such as its competitors. Additionally, competitors of Eurocom Communications may choose not to enter into commercial relationships with us because of our close relationship with Eurocom Communications and its affiliates. Affiliates of Eurocom Communications include YES, Partner Communications Company Ltd., or Partner, a major cellular operator, and Eurocom Cellular Communications Ltd., a distributor and official representative of Nokia in Israel, and a major supplier of Partner and Cellcom Israel Ltd. — Cross officerships, directorships and share ownership. The ownership interests of our directors in the ordinary shares of Internet Gold could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by Internet Gold and Eurocom Communications, disagreements over the desirability of a potential acquisition opportunity or employee retention or recruiting. In addition, Internet Gold may take an opportunity for itself or preclude us from taking advantage of a corporate opportunity; and — Intercompany transactions. From time to time, Internet Gold, Eurocom Communications or other companies within the Eurocom group may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of such companies and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of our independent directors or a committee of disinterested directors, the terms of any such transactions may not be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm’s-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been volatile and may decline in the future. The market price of our ordinary shares has been subject to significant price movements and could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: — quarterly variations in our operating results; — global economic conditions; — operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; — changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; — regulatory changes that impact competition in our markets; — changes in market valuations of other communications companies; — announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors; — announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; — changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; — announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; — additions or departures of key personnel; 13 — future sales of our ordinary shares; and — stock market price and volume fluctuations. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Future sales or distributions of our ordinary shares by Internet Gold could depress the market price for our ordinary shares. Internet Gold may sell a portion of our ordinary shares that it owns, including pursuant to demand registration rights described elsewhere in this annual report, or distribute those shares to its shareholders. Sales or distributions by Internet Gold of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market or to its shareholders could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares. Internet Gold has advised us that it currently intends to continue to hold our ordinary shares that it owns. Internet Gold has undertaken to comply with the ownership requirements of the licenses we obtained from the Ministry of Communications in any sale, transfer or disposition of our ordinary shares. Our licenses require that Israeli residents and citizens have minimum shareholdings. Throughout the terms of our VoB and domestic fixed-line licenses, at least 20% of our means of control must be held by an Israeli citizen and resident or by an entity controlled by an Israeli resident and citizen, while under the international telephony license at least 26% of our means of control must be held by Israelis at all times. See Item 4B. “Information on the Company – Business Overview – Government Regulation – General – Licenses and Applications.” We have never paid cash dividends to our shareholders and have not adopted a dividend distribution policy. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares and have not adopted a dividend distribution policy. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investments. We may in the future be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which will subject our U.S. investors to adverse tax rules. Holders of our ordinary shares who are United States residents face income tax risks. There is a risk that we will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company.” Our treatment as a passive foreign investment company could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the holders of our ordinary shares and would likely cause a reduction in the value of such shares. A foreign corporation will be treated as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income,” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s gross assets produce, or are held for the production of, such types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” Those holders of shares in a passive foreign investment company who are citizens or residents of the United States or domestic entities would alternatively be subject to a special adverse U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the passive foreign investment company, the distributions they receive from the passive foreign investment company and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the passive foreign investment company. In particular, any dividends paid by us would not be treated as “qualified dividend income” eligible for preferential tax rates in the hands of non-corporate U.S. shareholders. If we are classified in the future as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. Holders owning ordinary shares. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. 14 Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel We conduct our operations in Israel and our business focuses on the Israeli audience, therefore our results of operation may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. We are incorporated, based in and currently derive substantially all of our revenues from markets within the State of Israel. As a result, the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel’s international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. There has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in September 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity through 2008 and the beginning of 2009. The election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council in January 2006 resulted in an escalation in violence among Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, including extensive hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip since June 2007. Repeated attacks by Hamas, including missile strikes, against Israeli population centers led to an armed conflict between Israel and Hamas during December 2008 and January 2009. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians as well as tension between Israel and the neighboring Syria and Lebanon may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. We may be restricted in the conduct of our operations during periods of national emergency, which could negatively affect our business operations. During periods of national emergency, the Minister of Communications and other governmental authorities may issue various instructions regarding the use of our network, including the use of the network by the Israeli security forces. In addition, the Israeli Equipment Registration and IDF Mobilization Law, 1987 permits the registration, taking and use of engineering equipment and facilities by Israel’s Defense Forces. These actions could adversely affect our business operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by significant fluctuations of the NIS against foreign currencies. We report our financial results in NIS and receive payments in NIS for most of our sales. Our purchases of international bandwidth and other international transactions are paid in U.S. dollars. As a result, fluctuations in rates of exchange between NIS and the U.S. dollar may affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, when the Israeli inflation rate exceeds the rate of the NIS depreciation against foreign currencies, our NIS expenses increase to the extent of the difference between the rates. A significant disparity of this kind may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We engage in currency hedging transactions to reduce the impact on our cash flows and results of operations of currency fluctuations. We recognize freestanding derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities in our balance sheet and we measure those instruments at fair value. However, accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument, such as a currency hedging instrument, depends on the intended use of the derivative instrument and the resulting designation. For derivative instruments that are not designated as cash flow hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in our income statement without any reference to the change in value of the related budgeted expenditures. These differences could result in fluctuations in our reported net income on a quarterly basis. Further, as the principal amount of, and interest that we pay on, our Series A Debentures are linked to the Israeli consumer price index, any increase in the Israeli consumer price index will increase our financial expenses and could adversely affect our results of operations. 15 As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of The NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, the composition of the board of directors, compensation of officers, director nomination process and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow home country practice instead of the NASDAQ requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. Our shareholders generally may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us, our executive officers and directors and some of the experts named in this annual report, or asserting U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel and all of our executive officers and directors named in this annual report reside outside the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, all of our assets and most of the assets of our executive officers and directors and some of the experts named in this annual report are located outside the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Provisions of Israeli law, our licenses, our articles of association and the tax ruling issued to us may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders, including Israeli shareholders and shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are restricted. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when the time expires, tax then becomes payable even if no actual disposition of the shares has occurred. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. For additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law, see “Item 6C. Directors, Senior Management and Employees –Board Practices – Approval of Related Party Transactions Under Israeli Law” and Item 10E. “Taxation -Israeli Tax Considerations.” The regulations promulgated under the Israeli Communications Law, 1982, restrict ownership of our shares and who can serve as our directors. The regulations provide that a majority of our directors must be Israeli citizens and residents. Under the regulations applicable to our VoB and DFL licenses, at least 20% of our means of control must be held by an Israeli citizen and resident. Under the regulations applicable to our international telephony license at least 26% of our means of control must be held by Israeli citizens and residents at all times. In addition, our licenses provide that, without the approval of the Ministry of Communications, no person may acquire shares representing 10% or more of our outstanding share capital. A separate approval from the Ministry of Communications is required for the acquisition of 25% or more of our means of control or for the acquisition of our means of control providing its holder with the direct or indirect ability to have a significant influence over our operations, and an additional approval from the Ministry of Communications is required for the acquisition of 50% or more of our means of control or for acquisition of our means of control providing its holder with the direct or indirect ability to direct our operations. The prior-mentioned provisions do not apply to the acquisition of “Traded Means of Control,” defined as means of control listed on a stock exchange or that were offered to the public, provided that the initial public offering was approved by the Ministry of Communications and that the acquisition of traded means of control does not involve a change of control. Our general licenses require us to provide written notice to the Ministry of Communications of the acquisition of Traded Means of Control as a result of which any entity becomes a holder of 5% or more of our means of control within 21 days of becoming aware of such acquisition. In addition, we are required to apply to the Ministry of Communications for approval within 21 days of becoming aware of (i) an acquisition of Traded Means of Control as a result of which any entity becomes a holder of 10% or more of our means of control, (ii) an acquisition of 25% or more of our Traded Means of Control, or (iii) an acquisition of our Traded Means of Control providing its holder with the direct or indirect ability to have a significant influence over our operations, provided that in any and all such cases, the acquisition does not result in a transfer of control over us. 16 Any holding of our Traded Means of Control that requires the approval of the Ministry of Communications will be, unless the approval is granted, regarded by us as “dormant shares” within the meaning of the Israeli Companies Act until such approval is obtained, such that the shares carry no rights and may not be voted at general meeting except for the right to receive their pro rata portion of dividends and distributions paid to our shareholders. These provisions of our licenses are incorporated into our articles of association. If these requirements are not complied with, we will be found to be in breach of our licenses and our licenses could be changed, suspended or revoked, and we may also incur substantial fines. See Item 4B. “Information on the Company – Business Overview – Government Regulation.” In addition, such requirements may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from those under Delaware law. Because we are an Israeli company, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in a Delaware corporation. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his, her or its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable to shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness towards the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revisions in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. 