ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s operations and its securities are subject to a number of risks. The Company has described below all the material risks that are known to the Company that could materially impact the Company’s financial results of operations or financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occur, the business, financial condition or operating results of the Company and the trading price or value of its securities could be materially adversely ffected. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company’s limited operating history makes it difficult to predict future results and raises substantial doubt as to its ability to successfully develop profitable business operations. The Company’s limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate its current business and prospects or to accurately predict its future revenue or results of operations, and raises substantial doubt as to its ability to successfully develop profitable business operations. The Company’s revenue and income potential are unproven. As a result of its early stage of development, and to keep up with the frequent changes in the energy industry, it is necessary for the Company to analyze and revise its business strategy on an ongoing basis. Companies in early stages of development, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving energy industry segments, are generally more vulnerable to risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties than more established companies. The Company’s ability to diversify risks by participating in multiple projects and joint ventures depends upon its ability to raise capital and the availability of suitable prospects, and any failure to raise needed capital and secure suitable projects would negatively affect the Company’s ability to operate. The Company’s business strategy includes spreading the risk of oil and natural gas exploration, development and drilling, and ownership of interests in oil and natural gas properties, by participating in multiple projects and joint ventures, in particular with major Chinese government-owned oil and gas companies as joint venture partners. If the Company is unable to secure sufficient attractive projects as a result of its inability to raise sufficient capital or otherwise, the average quality of the projects and joint venture opportunities may decline and the risk of the Company’s overall operations could increase. The loss of key employees could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate. The Company believes that its success depends on the continued service of its key employees, as well as the Company’s ability to hire additional key employees, when and as needed. Each of Frank C. Ingriselli, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Stephen F. Groth, its Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Richard Grigg, the Company’s Senior Vice President and Managing Director, has the right to terminate his employment at any time without penalty under his employment agreement. The unexpected loss of the services of either Mr. Ingriselli, Mr. Groth, Mr. Grigg, or any other key employee, or the Company’s failure to find suitable replacements within a reasonable period of time thereafter, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to execute its business plan and therefore, on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to raise the additional capital necessary to execute its business strategy, which could result in the curtailment or cessation of the Company’s operations. The Company will need to raise substantial additional funds to fully fund its existing operations, consummate all of its current asset transfer and acquisition opportunities currently contemplated and for the development, production, trading and expansion of its business. On December 31, 2009, the Company had positive working capital of approximately $3.9- (including $3.6 million in cash and cash equivalents). Other than the recent financing transaction (registered direct offering) disclosed in this report, the Company has no current arrangements with respect to sources of additional financing , and the needed additional financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms on a timely basis, or at all. The inability to obtain additional financing, when needed, would have a negative effect on the Company, including possibly requiring it to curtail or cease operations. If any future financing involves the sale of the Company’s equity securities, the shares of Common Stock held by its stockholders could be substantially diluted. If the Company borrows money or issues debt securities, it will be subject to the risks associated with indebtedness, including the risk that interest rates may fluctuate and the possibility that it may not be able to pay principal and interest on the indebtedness when due. Insufficient funds will prevent the Company from implementing its business plan and will require it to delay, scale back, or eliminate certain of its programs or to license to third parties rights to commercialize rights in fields that it would otherwise seek to develop itself. 25 Failure by the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations could eventually result in the cessation of the Company’s operations and require the Company to seek outside financing or discontinue operations. The Company’s business activities require substantial capital from outside sources as well as from internally-generated sources. The Company’s ability to finance a portion of its working capital and capital expenditure requirements with cash flow from operations will be subject to a number of variables, such as: · the level of production of existing wells; · prices of oil and natural gas; · the success and timing of development of proved undeveloped reserves; · cost overruns; · remedial work to improve a well’s producing capability; · direct costs and general and administrative expenses of operations; · reserves, including a reserve for the estimated costs of eventually plugging and abandoning the wells; · indemnification obligations of the Company for losses or liabilities incurred in connection with the Company’s activities; and · general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond the Company’s control. The Company might not generate or sustain cash flow at sufficient levels to finance its business activities. When and if the Company generates significant revenues, if such revenues were to decrease due to lower oil and natural gas prices, decreased production or other factors, and if the Company were unable to obtain capital through reasonable financing arrangements, such as a credit line, or otherwise, its ability to execute its business plan would be limited and it could be required to discontinue operations. The Company’s failure to capitalize on its two existing definitive production agreements, to fully consummate the transactions contemplated by the Letter of Understanding related to its enhanced oil recovery and production opportunities, and/or enter into additional agreements could result in an inability by the Company to generate sufficient revenues and continue operations even if the CAMAC Transaction is consummated. The Company’s only definitive production contracts that have been secured to date are (i) the Contract for Cooperation and Joint Development with Chifeng Zhongtong Oil and Natural Gas Co. (“Chifeng”) covering an oil field in Inner Mongolia, and (ii) the Production Sharing Contract entered into with China United Coalbed Methane Co., Ltd. (“CUCBM”) granting the Company exclusive rights to a large contract area located in the Shanxi Province of China ( the “CUCBM Contract Area”), for the exploitation of coalbed methane (“CBM”) and tight gas sand resources (the "Zijinshan PSC"). The Company has not entered into definitive agreements with respect to any other ventures that it is currently pursuing other than (i) the Letter of Understanding, dated May 13, 2009, as amended (the “LOU”), entered into with Mr. Li Xiangdong (“LXD”) and Mr. Ho Chi Kong (“HCK”), related to the Company’s current enhanced oil recovery and production (“EORP”) operations, and (ii) the proposed CAMAC Transaction. The Company’s ability to consummate the CAMAC Transaction and secure one or more additional ventures is subject to, among other things, (i) the amount of capital the Company raises in the future; (ii) the availability of land for exploration and development in the geographical regions in which the Company’s business is focused; (iii) the nature and number of competitive offers for the same projects on which the Company is bidding; and (iv) approval by government and industry officials. The Company may not be successful in executing definitive agreements in connection with any other ventures, or otherwise be able to secure any additional ventures it pursues in the future. Failure of the Company to capitalize on its existing contracts and/or to secure one or more additional business opportunities would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations, and could result in the cessation of the Company’s business operations, even if the CAMAC Transaction is consummated. 26 The Company’s oil and gas operations will involve many operating risks that can cause substantial losses. The Company expects to produce, transport and market potentially toxic materials, and purchase, handle and dispose of other potentially toxic materials in the course of its business. The Company’s operations will produce byproducts, which may be considered pollutants. Any of these activities could result in liability, either as a result of an accidental, unlawful discharge or as a result of new findings on the effects the Company’s operations on human health or the environment. Additionally, the Company’s oil and gas operations may also involve one or more of the following risks: · fires; · explosions; · blow-outs; · uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, formation water, or drilling fluids; · natural disasters; · pipe or cement failures; · casing collapses; · embedded oilfield drilling and service tools; · abnormally pressured formations; · damages caused by vandalism and terrorist acts; and · environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. In the event that any of the foregoing events occur, the Company could incur substantial losses as a result of (i) injury or loss of life; (ii) severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources or equipment; (iii) pollution and other environmental damage; (iv) investigatory and clean-up responsibilities; (v) regulatory investigation and penalties; (vi) suspension of its operations; or (vii) repairs to resume operations. If the Company experiences any of these problems, its ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from typhoons or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. 27 The Company is a development-stage company and may continue to incur losses for a significant period of time, dependent upon whether the CAMAC Transaction is consummated and the future net earnings, if any, from the Transaction. The Company is a development-stage company with minimal revenues to date. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had an accumulated deficit to stockholders of approximately $20.5 million. The Company expects to continue to incur significant expenses relating to its identification of new ventures and investment costs relating to these ventures. Additionally, fixed commitments, including salaries and fees for employees and consultants, rent and other contractual commitments may be substantial and are likely to increase as additional ventures are entered into and personnel are retained prior to the generation of significant revenue. Energy ventures, such as oil well drilling projects, generally require a significant period of time before they produce resources and in turn generate profits. The CAMAC Transaction, if consummated, may or may not result in net earnings in excess of the Company’s losses on other ventures under development or in a start-up phase. The Company may not achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, or at all. The Company will be dependent upon others for the storage and transportation of oil and gas, which could result in significant operational costs to the Company and depletion of capital. The Company does not own storage or transportation facilities and, therefore, will depend upon third parties to store and transport all of its oil and gas resources when and if produced. The Company will likely be subject to price changes and termination provisions in any contracts it may enter into with these third-party service providers. The Company may not be able to identify such third-parties for any particular project. Even if such sources are initially identified, the Company may not be able to identify alternative storage and transportation providers in the event of contract price increases or termination. In the event the Company is unable to find acceptable third-party service providers, it would be required to contract for its own storage facilities and employees to transport the Company’s resources. The Company may not have sufficient capital available to assume these obligations, and its inability to do so could result in the cessation of its business. The Company may not be able to manage its anticipated growth, which could result in the disruption of the Company’s operations and prevent the Company from generating meaningful revenue. Subject to its receipt of additional capital, the Company plans to significantly expand operations to accommodate additional development projects and other opportunities. This expansion will likely strain its management, operations, systems and financial resources. To manage its recent growth and any future growth of its operations and personnel, the Company must improve and effectively utilize its existing operational, management and financial systems and successfully recruit, hire, train and manage personnel and maintain close coordination among its technical, finance, development and production staffs. The Company may need to hire additional personnel in certain operational and other areas during 2010. In addition, the Company may also need to increase the capacity of its software, hardware and telecommunications systems on short notice, and will need to manage an increasing number of complex relationships with strategic partners and other third parties. The failure to manage this growth could disrupt the Company’s operations and ultimately prevent the Company from generating meaningful revenue. An interruption in the supply of materials, resources and services the Company plans to obtain from third party sources could limit the Company’s operations and cause unprofitability. Once it has identified, financed, and acquired projects, the Company will need to obtain other materials, resources and services, including, but not limited to, specialized chemicals and specialty muds and drilling fluids, pipe, drill-string, geological and geophysical mapping and interruption services. There may be only a limited number of manufacturers and suppliers of these materials, resources and services. These manufacturers and suppliers may experience difficulty in supplying such materials, resources and services to the Company sufficient to meet its needs or may terminate or fail to renew contracts for supplying these materials, resources or services on terms the Company finds acceptable including, without limitation, acceptable pricing terms. Any significant interruption in the supply of any of these materials, resources or services, or significant increases in the amounts the Company is required to pay for these materials, resources or services, could result in a lack of profitability, or the cessation of operations, if unable to replace any material sources in a reasonable period of time. 28 The Company does not have a plan to carry insurance policies in China and will be at risk of incurring personal injury claims for its employees and subcontractors, and incurring loss of business due to theft, accidents or natural disasters. The Company does not carry, and does not plan to carry, any policies of insurance to cover any type of risk to its business in China, including, without limitation, the risks discussed above. In the event that the Company were to incur substantial liabilities with respect to one or more incidents, this could adversely affect its operations and it may not have the necessary capital to pay its portion of such costs and maintain business operations. The Company is exposed to concentration of credit risk, which may result in losses in the future. The Company is exposed to concentration of credit risk with respect to cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, long-term investments, and long-term advances. At December 31, 2009, 65% ($1,291,455) of the Company’s total cash was on deposit at HSBC in China and Hong Kong. Also at that date (unaudited), 64% ($1,028,762) of the Company’s total cash equivalents was invested in a single money market fund in the U.S. At December 31, 2008, 78% ($975,681) of the Company’s total cash was on deposit in China at the Bank of China. Also at that date, 48.7% ($4,514,167) of the Company’s total cash equivalents was invested in a single money market fund in the U.S. Risks Related to the CAMAC Transaction We cannot be sure if or when the CAMAC Transaction will be completed, if at all. The consummation of the CAMAC Transaction is subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the approval of the CAMAC Transaction by the Company’s stockholders, the Company’s ability to raise the minimum $45 million in financing (the “Minimum Financing”) required on terms and conditions acceptable to the Company, and a termination right by either party if the CAMAC Transaction is not completed by March 31, 2010. The Company successfully raised approximately $20 million through the offering and issuance of 5,000,000 shares of its Common Stock in the recent financing (registered direct offering) described elsewhere in this report, in addition to warrants exercisable for an aggregate of 4,000,000 shares of Common Stock, but there is no assurance that it will be able to raise the remaining $25 million required to meet the Minimum Financing closing condition. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to satisfy the closing conditions set forth in the Purchase Agreement. If we are unable to satisfy the closing conditions in the Purchase Agreement, CAMAC will not be obligated to complete the CAMAC Transaction and we may still incur the significant transaction costs described below. We will incur significant costs in connection with the CAMAC Transaction, whether or not it is completed. We currently expect to incur approximately $500,000 in costs related to the CAMAC Transaction. These expenses include, but are not limited to, financial advisory, legal and accounting fees and expenses, employee expenses, filing fees, printing expenses, proxy solicitation and other related charges. We may also incur additional unanticipated expenses in connection with the CAMAC Transaction. Approximately $400,000 of the costs related to the CAMAC Transaction, such as legal fees and due diligence fees, will be incurred regardless of whether the CAMAC Transaction is completed. The incurrence of these expenses will reduce the amount of cash available to be used for other corporate purposes, including for use in our ongoing operations. The Purchase Agreement will expose the Company to contingent liabilities. Under the Purchase Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify CAMAC for a number of matters including the breach of our representations, warranties and covenants contained in the Purchase Agreement, which indemnification obligations could result in significant cash payments by the Company that could materially and negatively impact its results of operations. 29 We may not realize the intended benefits of the CAMAC Transaction if revenues from the Oyo Field Production Sharing Contract are not as projected. The Company conducted extensive legal, financial and technical due diligence on the Oyo Field Production Sharing Contract (“Oyo PSC”) and the Oyo Field, reviewed and analyzed the Estimate of Reserves and Future Revenue report prepared for Allied Energy Corporation by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc., dated May 1, 2008 (the “NSAI Report”), and commissioned Somerley Limited to prepare a valuation of the Contract Rights based, in part, on the anticipated future revenues to be derived through its interests in the Oyo Field. However, the reserve information provided in the NSAI Report and the assumptions underlying the Company’s valuation models, including, but not limited to, actual quantities of oil produced from the Oyo Field, projected oil prices, anticipated tax rates, and historic and future operating expenses allocable to the Oyo Field, are subject to change. For example, since the Company's initial December 2009 assessment of the valuation of the interests being acquired in the Oyo Field and Oyo Field PSC, CAMAC has reported to the Company that actual production from the two producing wells has averaged between 12,000 bpd and 20,000 bpd since December 2009, associated gas production has been approximately 15 million cubic feet per day, and that the possible drilling of a third production well is expected to increase average production in 2011 to between approximately 23,000 bpd and 25,000 bpd. As a result, the Company has updated its view of the current estimated net present value of the interests being acquired from approximately $380 million to approximately $330 million, using a reduced oil price scenario and an average production rate of 15,000 bpd in 2010, and 23,000 bpd in 2011. If any of the assumptions underlying the Company’s valuation models undergo further material changes, then the estimated net present value of the Company’s interests in the Oyo Field and Oyo Field PSC may be subject to further change. If the value of the interests decrease substantially as a result of such changes, the interests being acquired may ultimately prove to be worth less than the total consideration the Company will be paying to CAMAC for such intetests under the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and the Company may not realize the intended benefits of the CAMAC Transaction.Applicable Nigerian income tax rates could adversely affect the value of the Oyo Field asset. The Oyo Field, income derived therefrom, and CAMAC Petroleum Limited as our acquiring subsidiary in the CAMAC Transaction (“CPL”), will be subject to the jurisdiction of the Nigerian taxing authorities. The Nigerian government applies different tax rates upon income derived from Nigerian oil operations ranging from 50% to 85%, based on a number of factors. The final determination of the tax liabilities with respect to the Oyo Field involves the interpretation of local tax laws and related authorities. In addition, changes in the operating environment, including changes in tax law and currency/repatriation controls, could impact the determination of tax liabilities with respect to the Oyo Field for a tax year. While CAMAC believes the tax rate applicable to the Oyo Field and the Oyo Field PSC is 50%, the actual applicable rate could be higher, which could result in a material decrease in the profits allocable to the Company under the Oyo Field PSC. Failure to complete the CAMAC Transaction could cause our stock price to decline. If the CAMAC Transaction is not completed for any reason, our stock price may decline because costs related to the CAMAC Transaction, such as legal and accounting, must be paid even if the CAMAC Transaction is not completed. In addition, if the CAMAC Transaction is not completed, our stock price may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the CAMAC Transaction will be completed. The Company and CAMAC may waive one or more of the conditions to the CAMAC Transaction without re-soliciting stockholder approval for the CAMAC Transaction. Each of the conditions to the Company’s and CAMAC’s obligations to complete the CAMAC Transaction may be waived, in whole or in part, to the extent permitted by applicable laws, by agreement of the Company and CAMAC. The Board of Directors of the Company will evaluate the materiality of any such waiver to determine whether amendment of the proxy statement and resolicitation of proxies is warranted. However, the Company generally does not expect any such waiver to be sufficiently material to warrant resolicitation of the stockholders. In the event that the Board of Directors of the Company determines any such waiver is not sufficiently material to warrant resolicitation of stockholders, the Company may determine to complete the CAMAC Transaction without seeking further stockholder approval. 30 The issuance of the consideration shares to CAMAC and the contemplated issuance of additional securities to satisfy the Minimum Financing closing condition may dilute our earnings per share, could lower our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital in a subsequent financing. If we are unable to obtain additional capital in future years, we may be unable to proceed with our plans and we may be forced to curtail our operations. We will require additional working capital to support our long-term growth strategies and we may not be able to obtain adequate levels of additional financing, whether through equity financing, debt financing or other sources. Under the terms of the Purchase and Sale Agreement, the Company is obligated to raise at least $45 million of additional equity and to consummate the Purchase and Sale Agreement, and the Company is obligated to issue shares equaling 62.74% of the Company’s issued and outstanding Common Stock, after giving effect to the CAMAC Transaction and the Minimum Financing. The Company successfully raised approximately $20 million through the offering and issuance of 5,000,000 shares of its Common Stock in the financing described elsewhere in this report, in addition to warrants exercisable for an aggregate of 4,000,000 shares of Common Stock, but there is no assurance that it will be able to raise the remaining $25 million required to meet the Minimum Financing closing condition. Shares issued in connection with the Purchase and Sale Agreement and Minimum Financing combined may result in dilution to our earnings per share and could lead to the issuance of securities with rights superior to our current outstanding securities. Following completion of the CAMAC Transaction and the Minimum Financing, any additional financing that involves the issuance of Company Common Stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for the Company’s Common Stock may result in dilution to the Company’s stockholders, including CAMAC following the CAMAC Transaction. In addition, we may grant registration rights to investors purchasing our equity or debt securities in the future. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we may be unable to implement our long-term growth strategies, develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, a lack of additional financing could force us to substantially curtail operations. The passage into law of the Nigerian Petroleum Industry Bill could create additional fiscal and regulatory burdens on the parties to the Oyo Field PSC, which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of the production. A draft Petroleum Industry Bill (“PIB”) is currently undergoing legislative process at the Nigerian National Assembly. The draft PIB seeks to introduce significant changes to legislation governing the oil and gas sector in Nigeria, including new fiscal regulatory and tax obligations and expanded fiscal and regulatory oversight that may impose additional operational and regulatory burdens on the operating contractor under the Oyo Field PSC and impact the economic benefits anticipated by the parties to the Oyo Field PSC. Any such fiscal and regulatory changes could have a negative impact on the profits allocable to the Company under the Oyo Field PSC. The Oyo Field is subject to the instability of the Nigerian Government. The government of Nigeria originally granted the rights to the Oyo Field to CAMAC. The government of Nigeria has historically experienced instability, which is out of management’s control. The Company’s ability to exploit its interests in this area pursuant to the Oyo Field PSC may be adversely impacted by unanticipated governmental action. The future success of the Company’s Oyo Field interest may also be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, risk of war, expropriation, repatriation, termination, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, tax laws (including host-country import-export, excise and income taxes and United States taxes on foreign subsidiaries) and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currencies in which future oil and gas producing activities may be denominated. Changes in exchange rates may also adversely affect the Company’s future results of operations and financial condition. Realization of any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 31 The Oyo Field is located in an area where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to the Oyo Field operations and our interest in the Oyo Field. The Oyo Field is located approximately 75 miles off the Southern Nigerian coast in deep-water. There are some risks inherent to oil production in Nigeria. In June 2008, Shell’s Bonga Oilfield, which is near the Oyo Field, was attacked by Nigerian militants, causing Shell to shut down the operation of the field. In June 2009, another Nigerian offshore oilfield operated by Shell, the Ofirma Field, and a flow station operated by Chevron were attacked by Nigerian Militants. Subsequently, Shell was forced to shut down some of its oil production in the region. In addition, an attack like that of September 11, 2001 or longer-lasting wars or international hostilities, including those currently in Afghanistan and Iraq could damage the world economy and adversely affect the availability of and demand for crude oil and petroleum products and negatively affect our investment and our customers’ investment decisions over an extended period of time. Despite undertaking various security measures and being situated 75 miles offshore the Nigerian coast, the Floating Production Storage and Offloading (“FPSO”) vessel currently being used for petroleum production in the Oyo Field may become subject to terrorist acts and other acts of hostility like piracy. Such actions could adversely impact our overall business, financial condition and operations. In addition, the Oyo Field’s financial viability may also be negatively affected by changing economic, political and governmental conditions in Nigeria. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. The FPSO vessel may be requisitioned by the Nigerian without adequate compensation. The Nigerian government could requisition or seize the FPSO vessel. Under requisition for title, a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner. Under requisition for hire, a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Maritime disasters and other operational risks may adversely impact our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of the FPSO vessel has an inherent risk of maritime disaster, environmental mishaps, cargo and property losses or damage and business interruptions caused by, among others: · mechanical failure; · damages requiring dry-dock repairs; · human error; · labor strikes; · adverse weather conditions; · vessel off hire periods · regulatory delays; and · political action, civil conflicts, terrorism and piracy in countries where vessel operations are conducted, vessels are registered or from which spare parts and provisions are sourced and purchased. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect the operation of the FPSO vessel, and result in loss of revenues or increased costs and adversely affect our profitability. Terrorist acts and regional hostilities around the world in recent years have led to increase in insurance premium rates and the implementation of special “war risk” premiums for certain areas. Such increases in insurance rates may adversely affect our profitability with respect to the Oyo Field asset. We will depend on NAE as the operating contractor under the Oyo Field PSC, which may result in operating costs, methods and timing of operations and expenditures beyond the Company’s control, and potential delay or discontinuation of operations and production. As operating contractor of the Oyo Field under the Oyo Field PSC, Nigerian Agip Exploration Ltd (“NAE”), a subsidiary of Italy's ENI SpA (one of the world’s largest international energy companies), will manage all of the physical development and operations with respect to the Oyo Field under the Oyo Field PSC, including, but not limited to, the timing of drilling, production and related operations, the timing and amount of operational costs, the technology and service providers employed. We would be materially adversely affected if NAE does not properly and efficiently manage operational and production matters, or becomes unable or unwilling to continue acting as the operating contractor under the Oyo Field PSC. 32 Stock sales following the issuance of the consideration shares to CAMAC in the CAMAC Transaction or issuance of shares to satisfy the Minimum Financing closing condition may affect the stock price of the Company’s Common Stock. After the issuance of the consideration shares (as defined in the Purchase and Sale Agreement) to CAMAC in the CAMAC Transaction and issuance of shares to satisfy the Minimum Financing closing condition, the recipients of such shares may sell all or a substantial portion of their shares in the public market, which could result in downward pressure on the stock price of all the Company’s capital stock. Moreover, in connection with the issuance of the consideration Shares to CAMAC, the Company will enter into a registration rights agreement with CAMAC, which agreement will provide CAMAC with rights to request that the Company file a registration statement to register the sale of Company capital stock held by CAMAC to the public, which registration could also result in downward pressure on the stock price of all the Company’s capital stock. Following the Closing of the CAMAC Transaction, CAMAC will be our controlling stockholder, and CAMAC may take actions that conflict with the interests of the other stockholders. Following the Closing of the CAMAC Transaction, CAMAC will beneficially own 62.74% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock. Accordingly, subject to the voting agreement described above pursuant to which CAMAC has agreed to elect or remove the three directors designated by a PAPI Representative (as defined in the Purchase and Sale Agreement) for one year following the Closing, CAMAC will control the power to elect our directors, to appoint members of management and to approve all actions requiring the approval of the holders of our Common Stock, including adopting amendments to our Certificate of Incorporation and approving mergers, acquisitions or sales of all or substantially all of our assets, subject to certain restrictive covenants. The interests of CAMAC as our controlling stockholder could conflict with your interests as a holder of Company Common Stock. For example, CAMAC as our controlling stockholder may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to you, as minority holders of the Company. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The price NAE as operating contractor under the Oyo Field PSC may receives for production with respect to the Oyo Field will heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil is a commodity and, therefore, its price is subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the market for oil has been volatile. This market will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices NAE will receive for its production under the Oyo Field PSC with respect to the Oyo Field, and the levels of its production, depend on numerous factors beyond our and NAE’s control. These factors include the following: · changes in global supply and demand for oil; · the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; · the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil; · political and economic conditions, including embargoes, in oil producing countries or affecting other oil-producing activity; · the level of global oil exploration and production activity; · the level of global oil inventories; · weather conditions; · technological advances affecting energy consumption; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations; · proximity and capacity of oil pipelines and other transportation facilities; and · the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower oil prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil that NAE can produce economically under the Oyo Field PSC with respect to the Oyo Field. A substantial or extended decline in oil prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. 33 Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. Because some or all of our revenues arising under the Oyo Field PSC may be denominated in foreign currencies, including the Nigerian naira, European Union euro and British pound sterling, and our cash is denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies will affect our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, we will report our financial results in U.S. dollars, and appreciation or depreciation in the value of such foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollars terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rates will also affect the relative value of earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Very limited hedging transactions are available in the Federal Republic of Nigeria to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations with respect to the Nigerian naira, although there are many hedging transactions available with respect to the European Union euro and the British pound sterling. We have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our subsidiaries' exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses with respect to the Nigerian naira may be magnified by Nigerian exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Nigerian naira into foreign currency. Risks Related to the Company’s Industry The Company may not be successful in finding petroleum resources or developing resources, and if it fails to do so, the Company will likely cease operations. The Company will be operating primarily in the petroleum extractive business; therefore, if it is not successful in finding crude oil and natural gas sources with good prospects for future production, and exploiting such sources, its business will not be profitable and it may be forced to terminate its operations. Exploring and exploiting oil and gas or other sources of energy entails significant risks, which risks can only be partially mitigated by technology and experienced personnel. The Company or any ventures it acquires or participates in may not be successful in finding petroleum or other energy sources; or, if it is successful in doing so, the Company may not be successful in developing such resources and producing quantities that will be sufficient to permit the Company to conduct profitable operations. The Company’s future success will depend in large part on the success of its drilling programs and creating and maintaining an inventory of projects. Creating and maintaining an inventory of projects depends on many factors, including, among other things, obtaining rights to explore, develop and produce hydrocarbons in promising areas, drilling success, ability to bring long lead-time, capital intensive projects to completion on budget and schedule, and efficient and profitable operation of mature properties. The Company’s inability to successfully identify and exploit crude oil and natural gas sources would have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations and would, in all likelihood, result in the cessation of its business operations. 34 In addition to the numerous operating risks described in more detail in this report, exploring and exploitation of energy sources involve the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be discovered or, if discovered, that the cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing wells will not result in profitable operations. The Company’s drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or abandoned as a result of a variety of factors, including: · adverse weather conditions; · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · inability to comply with governmental requirements; · shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment; and · shortages or unavailability of qualified labor to complete the drilling programs according to the business plan schedule. The energy market in which the Company operates is highly competitive and the Company may not be able to compete successfully against its current and future competitors, which could seriously harm the Company’s business. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, particularly with respect to access to drilling rigs and other services, the acquisition of properties and the hiring and retention of technical personnel. The Company expects competition in the market to remain intense because of the increasing global demand for energy, and that competition will increase significantly as new companies enter the market and current competitors continue to seek new sources of energy and leverage existing sources. Recently, higher commodity prices and stiff competition for acquisitions have significantly increased the cost of available properties. Many of the Company’s competitors, including large oil companies, have an established presence in Asia and the Pacific Rim countries and have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, development, extraction and other resources and greater name recognition than the Company does. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, changes in regulations affecting the industry, newly discovered resources and exploration opportunities, as well as to large swings in oil and natural gas prices. In addition, increased competition could result in lower energy prices, and reduced margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm the Company’s business. Furthermore, increased competition may harm the Company’s ability to secure ventures on terms favorable to it and may lead to higher costs and reduced profitability, which may seriously harm its business. The Company’s business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile energy prices, which volatility could adversely affect its ability to operate profitably. The Company’s business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide. Oil and gas prices, market expectations of potential changes in these prices and a variety of political and economic and weather-related factors significantly affect this level of activity. Oil and gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors, including: 35 · the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; · the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, commonly called “OPEC,” to set and maintain production levels and pricing; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · weather conditions; · the level of consumer demand; · global economic conditions; · political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and · government regulations. Within the past 12 months, light crude oil futures have ranged from below $35 per barrel to over $80 per barrel, and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. With respect to ventures in China, the prices the Company will receive for oil and gas, in connection with any of its production ventures, will likely be regulated and set by the government. As a result, these prices may be well below the market price established in world markets. Therefore, the Company may be subject to arbitrary changes in prices that may adversely affect its ability to operate profitably. If the Company does not hedge its exposure to reductions in oil and gas prices, it may be subject to the risk of significant reductions in prices; alternatively, use by the Company of oil and gas price hedging contracts could limit future revenues from price increases. To date, the Company has not entered into any hedging transactions but may do so in the future. In the event that the Company chooses not to hedge its exposure to reductions in oil and gas prices by purchasing futures and by using other hedging strategies, it could be subject to significant reduction in prices which could have a material negative impact on its profitability. Alternatively, the Company may elect to use hedging transactions with respect to a portion of its oil and gas production to achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce its exposure to price fluctuations. The use of hedging transactions could limit future revenues from price increases and could also expose the Company to adverse changes in basis risk, the relationship between the price of the specific oil or gas being hedged and the price of the commodity underlying the futures contracts or other instruments used in the hedging transaction. Hedging transactions also involve the risk that the counterparty does not satisfy its obligations. The Company may be required to take non-cash asset write-downs if oil and natural gas prices decline, which could have a negative impact on the Company’s earnings. Under applicable accounting rules, the Company may be required to write down the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties if oil and natural gas prices decline or if there are substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves, increases in its estimates of development costs or deterioration in its exploration results. Accounting standards require the Company to review its long-lived assets for possible impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable over time. In such cases, if the asset’s estimated undiscounted future cash flows are less than its carrying amount, impairment exists. Any impairment write-down, which would equal the excess of the carrying amount of the assets being written down over their fair value, would have a negative impact on the Company’s earnings, which could be material. 36 Risks Related to Chinese and Other International Operations The Company’s Chinese and other international operations will subject it to certain risks inherent in conducting business operations in China and other foreign countries, including political instability and foreign government regulation, which could significantly impact the Company’s ability to operate in such countries and impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company conducts substantially all of its business in China. The Company’s Chinese operations and anticipated operations in other foreign countries are, and will be, subject to risks generally associated with conducting businesses in foreign countries, such as: · foreign laws and regulations that may be materially different from those of the United States; · changes in applicable laws and regulations; · challenges to, or failure of, title; · labor and political unrest; · foreign currency fluctuations; · changes in foreign economic and political conditions; · export and import restrictions; · tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · longer time periods in collecting revenues; · difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and enforcing agreements; · possible loss of properties due to nationalization or expropriation; and · limitations on repatriation of income or capital. Specifically, foreign governments may enact and enforce laws and regulations requiring increased ownership by businesses and/or state agencies in energy producing businesses and the facilities used by these businesses, which could adversely affect the Company’s ownership interests in then existing ventures. The Company’s ownership structure may not be adequate to accomplish the Company’s business objectives in China or in any other foreign jurisdiction where the Company may operate. Foreign governments also may impose additional taxes and/or royalties on the Company’s business, which would adversely affect the Company’s profitability. In certain locations, governments have imposed restrictions, controls and taxes, and in others, political conditions have existed that may threaten the safety of employees and the Company’s continued presence in those countries. Internal unrest, acts of violence or strained relations between a foreign government and the Company or other governments may adversely affect its operations. These developments may, at times, significantly affect the Company’s results of operations, and must be carefully considered by its management when evaluating the level of current and future activity in such countries. 37 Compliance and enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, including those related to climate change, may cause the Company to incur significant expenditures and require resources, which it may not have. Extensive national, regional and local environmental laws and regulations in China and other Pacific Rim countries are expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s operations. These laws and regulations set various standards regulating certain aspects of health and environmental quality, which provide for user fees, penalties and other liabilities for the violation of these standards. As new environmental laws and regulations are enacted and existing laws are repealed, interpretation, application and enforcement of the laws may become inconsistent. Compliance with applicable local laws in the future could require significant expenditures, which may adversely affect the Company’s operations. The enactment of any such laws, rules or regulations in the future may have a negative impact on the Company’s projected growth, which could in turn decrease its projected revenues or increase its cost of doing business. A foreign government could change its policies toward private enterprise or even nationalize or expropriate private enterprises, which could result in the total loss of the Company’s investment in that country. The Company’s business is subject to significant political and economic uncertainties and may be adversely affected by political, economic and social developments in China or in any other foreign jurisdiction in which it operates. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity, foreign investment and greater economic decentralization. The Chinese government may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to the Company’s detriment from time to time with little, if any, prior notice. Changes in policies, laws and regulations or in their interpretation or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to stockholders, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Nationalization or expropriation could even result in the loss of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets and in the total loss of your investment in the Company. Because the Company plans to conduct substantial business in China, fluctuations in exchange rates and restrictions on currency conversions could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company expects that it will conduct substantial business in China, and its financial performance and condition there will be measured in terms of the RMB. It is difficult to assess whether a devaluation or revaluation (upwards valuation) of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial performance and asset values when measured in terms of U.S. dollars. An increase in the RMB would raise the Company’s costs incurred in RMB; however, it is not clear whether the underlying cause of the revaluation would also cause an increase in the Company’s price received for oil or gas which would have the opposite effect of increasing the Company’s margins and improving its financial performance. The Company’s financial condition could also be adversely affected as a result of its inability to obtain the governmental approvals necessary for the conversion of RMB into U.S. dollars in certain transactions of capital, such as direct capital investments in Chinese companies by foreign investors. Currently, there are few means and/or financial tools available in the open market for the Company to hedge its exchange risk against any possible revaluation or devaluation of RMB. Because the Company does not currently intend to engage in hedging activities to protect against foreign currency risks, future movements in the exchange rate of the RMB could have an adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. 38 If relations between the United States and China were to deteriorate, investors might be unwilling to hold or buy the Company’s stock and its stock price may decrease. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had significant disagreements over political, economic and security issues. Additional controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between these two countries, whether or not directly related to the Company’s business, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. If the United States imposes trade sanctions on China due to its current currency policies, the Company’s operations could be materially and adversely affected. Trade groups in the United States have blamed the cheap value of the Chinese currency for causing job losses in American factories, giving exporters an unfair advantage and making its imports expensive. Congress from time to time has been considering the enactment of legislation with the view of imposing new tariffs on Chinese imports. In 2005, the People’s Bank of China decided to strengthen the exchange rate of the Chinese currency to the U.S. dollar, revaluing the Chinese currency by 2.1% and introducing a “managed floating exchange rate regime.” Since that time, the exchange rate of the Chinese currency has been allowed to float against a basket of currencies. If Congress deems that China is still gaining a trade advantage from its exchange currency policy and an additional tariff is imposed, it is possible that China-based companies will no longer maintain significant price advantages over U.S. and other foreign companies on their goods and services, and the rapid growth of China’s economy would slow as a result. If the United States or other countries enact laws to penalize China for its currency policies, the Company’s business could be materially and adversely affected. A lack of adequate remedies and impartiality under the Chinese legal system may adversely impact the Company’s ability to do business and to enforce the agreements to which it is a party. The Company anticipates that it will be entering into numerous agreements governed by Chinese law. The Company’s business would be materially and adversely affected if these agreements were not enforced. In the event of a dispute, enforcement of these agreements in China could be extremely difficult. Unlike the United States, China has a civil law system based on written statutes in which judicial decisions have little precedential value. The government’s experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing certain recently enacted laws and regulations is limited, and the Company’s ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is uncertain. Furthermore, enforcement of the laws and regulations may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. These uncertainties could limit the protections that are available to the Company. The Company’s stockholders may not be able to enforce United States civil liabilities claims. Many of the Company’s assets are, and are expected to continue to be, located outside the United States and held through one or more wholly-owned subsidiaries incorporated under the laws of foreign jurisdictions, including Hong Kong and China. Similarly, a substantial part of the Company’s operations are, and are expected to continue to be, conducted in China and other Pacific Rim countries. In addition, some of the Company’s directors and officers, including directors and officers of its subsidiaries, may be residents of countries other than the United States. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons may be located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of China and other Pacific Rim countries would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against the Company or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in these countries against the Company or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. 39 Risks Related to the Company’s Stock The market price of the Company’s stock may be adversely affected by a number of factors related to the Company’s performance, the performance of other energy-related companies and the stock market in general. The market prices of securities of energy companies are extremely volatile and sometimes reach unsustainable levels that bear no relationship to the past or present operating performance of such companies. Factors that may contribute to the volatility of the trading price of the Company’s Common Stock include, among others: · the Company’s quarterly results of operations; · the variance between the Company’s actual quarterly results of operations and predictions by stock analysts; · financial predictions and recommendations by stock analysts concerning energy companies and companies competing in the Company’s market in general, and concerning the Company in particular; · public announcements of regulatory changes or new ventures relating to the Company’s business, new products or services by the Company or its competitors, or acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances by the Company or its competitors; · public reports concerning the Company’s services or those of its competitors; · the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors or stock analysts may deem comparable to the Company; · large purchases or sales of the Company’s Common Stock; · investor perception of the Company’s business prospects or the oil and gas industry in general; and · general economic and financial conditions. In addition to the foregoing factors, the trading prices for equity securities in the stock market in general, and of energy-related companies in particular, have been subject to wide fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of the particular company affected by such fluctuations. Consequently, broad market fluctuations may have an adverse effect on the trading price of the Common Stock, regardless of the Company’s results of operations. The limited market for the Company’s Common Stock may adversely affect trading prices or the ability of a shareholder to sell the Company’s shares in the public market at or near ask prices or at all if a shareholder needs to liquidate its shares. The market price for shares of the Company’s Common Stock has been, and is expected to continue to be, very volatile. Numerous factors beyond the Company’s control may have a significant effect on the market price for shares of the Company’s Common Stock, including the fact that the Company is a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume. Even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and may be reluctant to follow an unproven, early stage company such as the Company or purchase or recommend the purchase of its shares until such time as the Company becomes more seasoned and viable. There may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in the Company’s shares is minimal as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. Due to these conditions, investors may not be able to sell their shares at or near ask prices or at all if investors need money or otherwise desire to liquidate their shares. 40 The Company’s issuance of Preferred Stock could adversely affect the value of the Company’s Common Stock. The Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 50 million shares of Preferred Stock, which shares constitute what is commonly referred to as “blank check” Preferred Stock. Approximately 26 million shares of Preferred Stock are currently available for issuance. This Preferred Stock may be issued by the Board of Directors from time to time on any number of occasions, without stockholder approval, as one or more separate series of shares comprised of any number of the authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, designated by resolution of the Board of Directors, stating the name and number of shares of each series and setting forth separately for such series the relative rights, privileges and preferences thereof, including, if any, the: (i) rate of dividends payable thereon; (ii) price, terms and conditions of redemption; (iii) voluntary and involuntary liquidation preferences; (iv) provisions of a sinking fund for redemption or repurchase; (v) terms of conversion to Common Stock, including conversion price; and (vi) voting rights. The designation of such shares could be dilutive of the interest of the holders of our Common Stock. The ability to issue such Preferred Stock could also give the Company’s Board of Directors the ability to hinder or discourage any attempt to gain control of the Company by a merger, tender offer at a control premium price, proxy contest or otherwise. The Common Stock may be deemed “penny stock” and therefore subject to special requirements that could make the trading of the Company’s Common Stock more difficult than for stock of a company that is not “penny stock”. The Company’s Common Stock may be deemed to be a “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Penny stocks are stocks (i) with a price of less than five dollars per share; (ii) that are not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) whose prices are not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system (NASDAQ-listed stocks must still meet requirement (i) above); or (iv) of issuers with net tangible assets of less than $2,000,000 (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years) or $5,000,000 (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenues of less than $6,000,000 for the last three years. Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act, and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder, require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Moreover, Rule 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for investors in the Common Stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. The Company’s executive officers, directors and major stockholders hold a substantial amount of the Company’s Common Stock and may be able to prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of March 1, 2010, the executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock together beneficially owned approximately 11.1% of the outstanding Common Stock (including as outstanding the 5 million additional shares in the recent registered direct offering). These stockholders, if they were to act together, would likely be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by stockholders, including the election of Directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without the support of these stockholders. 41 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable ITEM 