ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. Risks Related to Our Company We have a history of losses, and may never achieve or sustain profitability. We incurred substantial losses, and we may continue to incur substantial losses in the future. We incurred net losses of $13.0 million and $23.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 and the year ended December 31, 2008, respectively. We have also experienced a decrease in new club membership sales and existing club member upgrades during the last six months of 2008 and all of 2009. These circumstances raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue to fund operating losses and provide necessary operating liquidity. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability in the future. We have received a report from our independent registered public accounting firm expressing doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm noted in their report accompanying our consolidated balance sheets of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in owners’ equity (deficit) and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 that our recurring losses from operations and ongoing requirements for additional capital investment raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Management plans to maintain our viability as a going concern by: if necessary, selling selected club properties; closely maintaining and reducing operating expenses; and seeking to raise additional working capital. We cannot assure you that our plans will be successful. This doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern could adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing at favorable terms, if at all, as such an opinion may cause investors to have reservations about our long-term prospects, and may adversely affect our relationship with customers and others. If we cannot successfully continue as a going concern, our stockholders may lose their entire investment in us. 14 Our business is capital intensive and the lack of available financing to fund the acquisition of additional destination club properties and our operations could adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our club membership base which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order for our destination clubs to remain attractive and competitive, we have to spend a significant amount of money to keep the properties well maintained, modernized and refurbished and to add new luxury properties periodically to our portfolio of destination club properties as we add new club members. This creates an ongoing need for cash and, to the extent we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. We could finance future expenditures from any of the following sources: • cash flow from operations; • non-recourse, sale-leaseback or other financing; • bank borrowings; • annual dues increases or club member assessments; • public and private offerings of debt or equity; • sale of existing real estate; or • some combination of the above. We might not be able to obtain financing for future expenditures on favorable terms or at all, which could inhibit our ability to continue to grow. Events during 2008 and 2009, including the failures and near failures of numerous financial services companies and the decrease in liquidity and available equity and debt capital have negatively impacted the capital markets for real estate investments. Accordingly, our financial results have been and may continue to be impacted by the cost and availability of funds needed to grow our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial position. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had total debt of approximately $123 million, consisting of $99 million of borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and $24 million of additional debt obligations secured by destination club properties. Our senior secured credit facility is an amended and restated $110 million revolving credit facility with CapitalSource, secured by our real estate assets, which will mature on April 30, 2011, subject to extension by us for up to two one-year periods. The revolving credit facility includes financial and operational covenants that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness and pay dividends as well as purchase or dispose of significant assets. Covenants in the revolving credit facility include obligations to maintain either a restricted cash balance of not less than six months of debt service or a debt service coverage ratio of 1.25 to 1, to maintain a leverage ratio between debt and consolidated net worth of no more than 3.5 to 1, to comply with specified ratios of number of club properties to club members, to have a net loss of no more than $10 million in fiscal 2009 and $5 million in fiscal 2010, and to have net income in each year thereafter (as adjusted in each year for the non-refundable portion of new member initiation fees not yet recognized in income and, in 2009, for non-cash stock-based compensation), and to maintain a consolidated debt ratio of no more than 80%. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all of the covenants in the revolving credit facility, we have previously violated certain covenants contained in our prior revolving credit facility with CapitalSource, which covenant violations were waived by the lender, we cannot provide any assurance that in the future, if we were to need a waiver of a breach of a covenant, that such a waiver would be granted. In addition, we have approximately $23 million in additional indebtedness secured by real estate assets with various first and second mortgage lenders. In the event we default on our secured debt obligations, the lenders could enforce their rights under the loan agreements, which would impair our ability to conduct our business and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to make payments on one or more mortgages on the properties or otherwise default on our debt obligations, the lenders could foreclose on such properties, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness may: 15 • make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our indebtedness; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; • limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors; and • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior secured credit agreement restricts our ability to dispose of assets, and requires the use of proceeds from any disposition of assets to repay our indebtedness. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. The luxury vacation industry is highly competitive and we are subject to risks relating to competition that may adversely affect our performance. We operate principally in the luxury vacation industry and compete against numerous global, regional and boutique destination clubs; as well as other shared usage or interval ownership resort and vacation property companies, real estate developers and sponsors; vacation home owners, brokers and managers; resort sponsors and managers; and, more broadly, luxury resorts and other transient/leisure accommodations; as well as alternative leisure and recreation categories, such as golf clubs or other club membership organizations. We have encountered and expect to encounter in the future intense competition from our rivals in the destination club industry and from other companies offering competitive products and services. Many of our competitors have greater consumer recognition or resources and/or more established and familiar products than us. The factors that we believe are important to customers include: • number and variety of club destinations available to club members; • quality of member services and concierge services; • quality of destination club properties; • pricing of club membership plans; 16 • type and quality of resort amenities offered; • reputation of club; • destination club properties in proximity to major population centers; • availability and cost of air and ground transportation to destination club properties; and • ease of travel to resorts (including direct flights by major airlines). We have many competitors for our club members, including other major resort destinations worldwide. We also directly compete with other destination clubs, such as Exclusive Resorts, which is the largest company in the destination club marketplace, as measured by number of club members. Our destination club members can choose from any of these alternatives. We compete with numerous other resorts that may have greater financial resources than we do and that may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to promotion of their offerings than we can. We believe that developing and maintaining a competitive advantage will require continued investment in our technology platform, brand, existing destination club properties and the acquisition of additional luxury properties to our portfolio of destination club properties. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments to do so, or that we will be able to compete successfully in this market or against such competitors. We are subject to the operating risks common to the luxury vacation industry which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to numerous operating risks common to the luxury vacation industry. Some of these risks include: • impact of war and terrorist activity (including threatened terrorist activity) and heightened travel security measures instituted in response thereto; • travelers’ fears of exposure to contagious diseases; • decreases in the demand for transient rooms and related lodging services, including a reduction in personal and business travel as a result of general economic conditions; • cyclical over-building in the vacation ownership industry; • restrictive changes in zoning and similar land use laws and regulations or in health, safety and environmental laws, rules and regulations and other governmental and regulatory action; • changes in travel patterns; • the costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including, among others, franchising, timeshare, privacy, licensing, labor and employment, and regulations under the Office of Foreign Assets Control and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • the availability and cost of capital to allow us to fund acquisitions of additional destination club properties, renovations and investments; • disruptions in relationships with third parties, including marketing alliances and affiliations with luxury resort property owners; • foreign exchange fluctuations; and • the financial condition of the airline industry and the impact on air travel. The matters described above could result in a decrease in the number, or lack of growth, in our destination club members and could have a material adverse effect on the luxury vacation industry, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 The current slowdown in the travel industry and the global economy generally will continue to impact our financial results and growth. The present economic slowdown and the uncertainty over its breadth, depth and duration has had a negative impact on the luxury vacation industry. There is now general consensus among economists that the economies of the United States, Europe and much of the rest of the world have been in a recession since December 2007. The current downturn in the economy has reduced, and may in the future reduce the demand for our destination club memberships and may increase club member resignations and redemptions. Accordingly, our financial results have been impacted by the economic slowdown and both our future financial results and growth could be further harmed if the recession continues for a significant period or becomes worse. We are subject to the risks that generally relate to real estate investments, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property because we own most of our destination club properties. The investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the related properties, and the expenses incurred. In addition, a variety of other factors affect income from properties and real estate values, including governmental regulations, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. When interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decreases. Similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult both to acquire and to sell real property. In addition, our loan facility restricts our ability to sell our assets, including our real estate holdings. Finally, under eminent domain laws, governments can take real property. Sometimes this taking is for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, equity real estate investments are difficult to sell quickly and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio of owned properties quickly in response to economic or other conditions. If our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our income and financial condition will be adversely affected. The real estate investment industry is susceptible to trends in the national and/or regional economies and there can be no assurance that we can operate our destination club properties and then later sell any or all of them at a profit. The need for ongoing property renovations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our properties require routine maintenance as well as periodic renovations and capital improvements. Ongoing renovations at a particular property may negatively impact the desirability of the property as a vacation destination. A significant decrease in the supply of available vacation rental accommodations and the need for vacation rental services during renovation periods, coupled with the inability to attract vacationers to properties undergoing renovations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Environmental liabilities, including claims with respect to mold or hazardous or toxic substances, could have a negative impact on our reputation and cause us to incur additional expense to remedy any such liability or claim. Under various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous property owner of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances, including mold, on, under or in such property. These laws could impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to develop, use, sell or rent the real property or to borrow using the real property as collateral. If we arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes, we could be liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up wastes at the disposal or treatment facility, even if we never owned or operated that facility. Other laws, ordinances and regulations could require us to manage, abate or remove lead or asbestos containing materials. Similarly, the operation and closure of storage tanks are often regulated by federal, state, local and foreign laws. Certain laws, ordinances and regulations, particularly those governing the management or preservation of wetlands, coastal zones and threatened or endangered species, could limit our ability to develop, use, sell or rent our real property. We cannot provide any assurances that environmental issues will not exist with respect to any destination club property we own or acquire. Even if environmental inspections are made, environmental issues may later be determined to exist because the inspections were not complete or accurate or environmental releases migrate to the properties from adjacent property. In addition to liability for environmental issues which can substantially adversely impact our business and financial condition, the marketability of the destination club properties for sale or refinancing can be adversely affected because of the concerns of a third party who may buy or lend money on the properties over the possible environmental liability and/or environmental clean-up costs. In addition, our reputation may be damaged by any alleged claim or incurrence of environmental liabilities, which could reduce demand for our destination club memberships and have a material adverse effect on our business. We own properties that are located internationally and thus are subject to special political and monetary risks not generally applicable to our domestic properties. We operate properties located abroad which, as of December 31, 2009, included 44 properties in 12 international locations. We intend to expand our portfolio of international destination club properties. Properties abroad generally are subject to various political, geopolitical, and other risks that are not present or are different in the United States. These risks include the risk of war, terrorism, civil unrest, expropriation and nationalization and regulation, as well as the impact in cases in which there are inconsistencies between U.S. law and the laws of an international jurisdiction. In addition, sales in international jurisdictions typically are made in local currencies, which subject us to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Currency devaluations and unfavorable changes in international monetary and tax policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financing plans, as could other changes in the international regulatory climate and international economic conditions, in the event that we increase our operation of properties abroad. We have a limited operating history, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. We have been operating only since 2004 and therefore do not have an established operating history. In addition, the acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of Private Escapes was consummated on September 15, 2009, and as a result we now have a much larger base of club members, club properties and employees to manage and operate. Consequently, any predictions you make about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history. We may experience financial and operational risks in connection with acquisitions. In addition, businesses acquired by us may incur significant losses from operations or experience impairment of carrying value. We completed our acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of Private Escapes on September 15, 2009, and intend to selectively pursue other acquisitions. However, we may be unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or complete transactions on favorable terms. In addition, in the case of acquired assets or businesses, we may need to: 19 • successfully integrate the operations, as well as the accounting, financial and disclosure controls, management information, technology, human resources and other administrative systems, of acquired businesses with existing operations and systems; • maintain third party relationships previously established by acquired companies; • retain senior management and other key personnel at acquired businesses; and • successfully manage acquisition-related strain on our and/or the acquired businesses’ management, operations and financial resources. We may not be successful in addressing these challenges or any others encountered in connection with historical and future acquisitions. In addition, the anticipated benefits of one or more acquisitions may not be realized and future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and/or the assumption of contingent liabilities. Also, the value of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired could be impacted by one or more unfavorable events or trends, which could result in impairment charges. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to achieve our growth objectives. We may not be able to achieve our objectives for maintaining our existing club members, increasing our number of new club members through organic growth, acquisitions and acquiring additional luxury properties to add to our portfolio of destination club properties. Our ability to complete acquisitions of additional properties depends on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and requisite lender and government approvals. Even if we are able to complete acquisitions of additional luxury properties, we may not be able to grow our club membership base or effectively integrate such acquisitions. Extensive laws and government regulations could affect the way we conduct our business plan. Our business exists in a regulatory environment that is changing and evolving and where certain regulatory matters are currently uncertain. Such matters include, but are not limited to, the question of whether our destination club memberships constitute timeshare/vacation ownership plans or timeshare use plans, as well as whether such club memberships being offered may constitute the offering of unregistered securities under the US federal and/or state securities laws. We believe that our club membership sales do not constitute timeshare/vacation ownership plans or timeshare use plans, nor do they constitute offers of securities under any federal or state laws or regulations. If, however, the club membership sales were determined to constitute timeshare/vacation ownership plans or timeshare use plans, or be deemed to be securities under any state or federal law, we would be required to comply with applicable state timeshare regulations or state and federal securities laws, including those laws pertaining to registration or qualification of securities, licensing of salespeople and other matters. If we cannot comply with the applicable timeshare regulations or state and federal securities requirements, in that event, and/or the determination may create liabilities or contingencies, including rescission rights relating to the club memberships we previously sold, as well as fines and penalties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 If we are unable to obtain the necessary permits and approvals in connection with our acquisition of destination club properties, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to continue to acquire additional destination club properties for our portfolio. To successfully acquire and operate the properties as intended, we and/or our subsidiaries must apply for and receive any necessary federal, state and/or local and foreign permits and licenses as may be applicable to the properties. We expect to receive such necessary permits and approvals; however, there can be no assurance that such permits and approvals will be obtained. Failure to receive the necessary permits and approvals could prohibit or substantially and adversely impact our operations. Increased insurance risk, perceived risk of travel and adverse changes in economic conditions as a result of recent events could significantly reduce our cash flow, revenues and earnings. We believe that insurance and surety companies are re-examining many aspects of their business, and may take actions including increasing premiums, requiring higher self-insured retentions and deductibles, requiring additional collateral on surety bonds, reducing limits, restricting coverages, imposing exclusions, such as mold damage, sabotage and terrorism, and refusing to underwrite certain risks and classes of business. Any increased premiums, mandated exclusions, change in limits, coverages, terms and conditions or reductions in the amounts of bonding capacity available may adversely affect our ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverages at reasonable costs, which could significantly reduce our business cash flow, revenues and earnings. The illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly limit our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and significantly reduce our cash flow, revenues and earnings. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more of our properties in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We may not have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements and as a result our ability to sell the property would be limited. In acquiring a property, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions on us. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could significantly reduce our cash flow, revenues and earnings. We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business which could be costly and time consuming. We are, from time to time, subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management’s attention and resources. Although our management believes that we have adequate insurance coverage and accrues loss contingencies for all known matters that are probable and can be reasonably estimated, we cannot assure that the outcome of all current or future litigation will not be costly and time consuming and otherwise divert management’s attention away from operating the business. 21 Fluctuations in real estate values may require us to write down the book value of real estate assets. Under United States generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to assess the impairment of our long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors management considers that could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to minimum future operating results, significant change in the manner of use of the assets, significant technological or industry changes, or changes in the strategy for our overall business. When we determine that the carrying value of certain long-lived assets is impaired, an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying value of the asset, or asset group, over its estimated fair value is recognized. These impairment charges would be recorded as operating losses. Any material write-downs of assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and earnings. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules of the SEC and stock exchanges regulate corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect that compliance with these public company requirements will increase costs and make some activities more time-consuming. For example, we have created new board committees and adopted new internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we incur additional expenses associated with our SEC reporting requirements. A number of those requirements require us to carry out activities we have not done previously. For example, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management will need to assess and report on our internal control over financial reporting and our independent accountants may need to issue an opinion on that assessment and the effectiveness of those controls. Furthermore, if we identify any issues in complying with those requirements (for example, if we or our independent accountants identified a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting), we could incur additional costs rectifying those issues, and the existence of those issues could adversely affect us, our reputation or investor perceptions of us. We also expect that it will be difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Advocacy efforts by stockholders and third parties may also prompt even more changes in governance and reporting requirements. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. We depend on key personnel for the future success of our business and the loss of one or more of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and implement our growth strategies, or could be negatively perceived in the capital markets. Our future success and ability to manage future growth depends, in large part, upon the efforts and continued service of our senior management team, which has substantial experience in the resort and hospitality industry. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, James Tousignant, our Chairman, Richard Keith, and our Chief Financial Officer, Philip Callaghan, have been actively involved in the acquisition, ownership and operation of resort properties and are actively engaged in our management. Messrs. Tousignant, Keith and Callaghan substantially determine our strategic direction, especially with regard to operational, financing, acquisition and disposition activity. The departure of any of them could negatively impact our ability to grow and manage our operations. Although we are party to employment agreements with some of our key personnel, these employment agreements do not require them to remain our employees and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance on any of our executives, and such insurance, if obtained in the future, may not be sufficient to cover the costs of recruiting and hiring a replacement or the loss of an executive’s services. It could be difficult for us to find replacements for such key personnel, as competition for such personnel is intense. The loss of services of one or more members of senior management could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and implement our growth strategies. Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets, which could reduce the market value of our securities. 22 Damage to our destination club properties and other operational risks may disrupt our business and adversely impact our financial results. Depending on the location of our destination club properties, a particular property may bear an increased risk for damage by inclement weather, construction defects, environmental matters, acts of terrorism, or other forces or acts, whether intentional or unintentional. In addition, we rely heavily on our information systems and other data processing systems. Any such damage to properties or disruption in information systems could cause us to suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. Furthermore, we depend on our headquarters in Kissimmee, Florida, where most of our information systems and personnel are located, for the continued operation of our business. A natural disaster or other catastrophic event or disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses, including a disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, or directly affecting our headquarters, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. The impact of any disaster or disruption on our business will likely be exacerbated by the fact that we do not have any disaster recovery program in place to mitigate the harm or minimize the lost data that may result from such a disaster or disruption. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses, if at all. We are vulnerable to the risk of unfavorable weather conditions and continued inclement weather could reduce our revenues and earnings. Our ability to attract visitors to our resorts is influenced by weather conditions. Unfavorable weather conditions can adversely affect visits and our revenues and profits. Adverse weather conditions may discourage visitors from participating in outdoor activities at our resorts. There is no way for us to predict future weather patterns or the impact that weather patterns may have on results of operations or visitation. Extreme weather conditions such as hurricanes or prolonged periods of adverse weather conditions, or the occurrence of such conditions during peak visitation periods, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations by reducing revenues and earnings. Our property development and management operations are conducted in many areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather, such as hurricanes and floods. We also may be affected by unforeseen engineering, environmental, or geological problems. These conditions could delay or increase the cost of construction projects, damage or reduce the availability of materials, and negatively impact the demand for resorts in affected areas. If insurance does not fully cover business interruptions or losses resulting from these events, our earnings, liquidity and capital resources could be adversely affected. 23 Our success depends, in part, on the integrity of our systems and infrastructure. System interruptions may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the integrity of our systems and infrastructure, including websites, information and related systems and call centers. System interruptions may adversely affect our ability to operate websites, process and fulfill club member reservations and other transactions, respond to customer inquiries and generally maintain cost-efficient operations. We may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all systems or data unavailable or prevent us from efficiently providing services. We also rely on third-party computer systems, broadband and other communications systems and service providers in connection with the provision of services generally, as well as to facilitate, process and fulfill transactions. Any interruptions, outages or delays in these systems, or deterioration in the performance of these systems and infrastructure, could impair our ability to provide services. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt computer, broadband or other communications systems and infrastructure at any time. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing services. Although we have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, these systems are not fully redundant and disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. If any of these adverse events were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any penetration of network security or other misappropriation or misuse of personal consumer information could cause interruptions in our operations and subject us to increased costs, litigation and other liabilities. Claims could also be made against us for other misuse of personal information, such as for unauthorized purposes or identity theft, which could result in litigation and financial liabilities, as well as administrative action from governmental authorities. Security breaches could also significantly damage our reputation with consumers and third parties with whom we do business. It is possible that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, undetected fraud, inadvertent violations of company policies or procedures or other developments could result in a compromise of information or a breach of the technology and security processes that are used to protect consumer transaction data. As a result, current security measures may not prevent any or all security breaches. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against and remedy any potential or existing security breaches and their consequences. Consumers are generally concerned with security and privacy of the Internet, and any publicized security problems affecting us may discourage consumers from doing business with us, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on the value of our name, image and brand, and if demand for our destination club properties and their features decreases or the value of our name, image or brand diminishes, our business, revenues and results of operations would be reduced. Our success depends, to a large extent, on our ability to shape and stimulate consumer tastes and demands by producing and maintaining luxurious, attractive, and exciting properties and services, as well as our ability to remain competitive in the areas of design and quality. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this regard or that we will be able to anticipate and react to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner. Furthermore, a high media profile is an integral part of our ability to shape and stimulate demand for our destination club memberships with our target customers. A key aspect of our marketing strategy is to focus on attracting media coverage. If we fail to attract that media coverage, we may need to substantially increase our advertising and marketing costs, which would decrease our earnings. In addition, other types of marketing tools, such as traditional advertising and marketing, may not be successful in attracting target customers. Our business would be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be diminished. Our brand names and trademarks are integral to our marketing efforts. If the value of our name, image or brands were diminished, our business, revenues and results of operations would be reduced. 24 Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and reduce our business and reduce revenues. We believe our trademarks are critical to our success. We rely on trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. The success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our trademarks to increase brand awareness and further develop our brand. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against us and could significantly harm our results of operations. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. From time to time, we apply to have certain trademarks registered. There is no guarantee that such trademark registrations will be granted. We cannot assure that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and our market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could reduce our business and reduce revenues. Changes in weather patterns as a result of global warming could have an adverse effect on our business. Scientific reports indicate that, as a result of human activity: • temperatures around the world have been increasing and are likely to continue to increase as a result of increasing atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide and other carbon compounds; • the frequency and severity of storms, and flooding, are likely to increase; • severe weather is likely to occur in places where the climate has historically been more mild; and • average sea levels have risen and are likely to rise more, threatening worldwide coastal development. We cannot predict the effects that these phenomena may have on our business. We could be impacted to the extent that global warming trends affect established weather patterns or exacerbate extreme weather or weather fluctuations, hindering or preventing travel by our club members in certain circumstances. They might also affect the desirability of some of our properties, such as ones located on beaches or in skiing areas, increase the cost and reduce the availability of insurance covering damage from natural disasters for some of our properties and lead to new laws and regulations that increase our expenses and reduce our revenues. Any of these consequences, and other consequences of global warming that we do not foresee, could materially and adversely affect our sales, profits and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock It may be difficult for you to resell shares of our common stock if an active market for our common stock does not develop. As a result of the delisting of our securities from the NYSE Amex in February 2010, our common stock is not actively traded on a securities exchange and we currently do not meet the initial listing criteria for any registered securities exchange. Our securities are currently quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. This factor may impair our stockholders' ability to sell their shares when they want and/or could depress our stock price. As a result, stockholders may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations of the price of, our securities because smaller quantities of shares could be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed and security analyst and news coverage of our company may be limited. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our shares. 25 The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will likely limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of March 31, 2010, our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities together beneficially owned over 70% of our outstanding common stock (after giving effect to the exchange of all ownership units of Ultimate Escapes Holdings held by them into shares of our common stock, excluding any earn-out units that may be issued).. In addition, James M. Tousignant, our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our board of directors, holds, as representative on behalf of the other owners of Ultimate Escapes Holdings, 7,556,675 shares of our Series A Preferred Voting Stock, which vote as a single class with shares of our common stock on all matters. As a result, Mr. Tousignant has control over most matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Corporate action might be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial. We may issue additional shares of our common stock, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our stockholders. This might have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 12,075,000 shares of common stock are currently exercisable. These warrants would only be exercised if the $8.80 per share exercise price is below the market price of our common stock. To the extent they are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to our stockholders and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. In addition, if we achieve certain Adjusted EBITDA targets in each of 2010, 2011 and/or 2012, we will be required to issue up to 7,000,000 additional shares of common stock to certain of Ultimate Escapes Holdings’ owners upon conversion of additional ownership units issued if such targets are met. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence — Operating Agreement of Ultimate Escapes Holdings” for additional information. Any such issuances would dilute the percentage ownership by our current stockholders and reduce their influence on our management. These issuances may also result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock may cause the market price of our securities to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. In accordance with lock-up obligations contained in the Operating Agreement of Ultimate Escapes Holdings, the UE Owners will be able to sell their shares of our common stock they are entitled to receive upon conversion of their ownership units in connection with the reverse merger beginning on the first anniversary of the consummation of the reverse merger. Pursuant to the registration rights agreement entered into in connection with the consummation of the reverse merger, the UE Owners have registration rights, subject to certain limitations, with respect to shares of our common stock for which their ownership units of Ultimate Escapes Holdings may be exchanged. We have agreed to file, as soon as possible after the closing date of the reverse merger but in no event later than June 29, 2010, a registration statement covering the shares of our common stock for which their ownership units of Ultimate Escapes Holdings may be exchanged. The UE Owners also have certain “piggyback” registration rights applicable to some registration statements filed by us following the consummation of the reverse merger. In addition, pursuant to a registration rights agreement between us and our initial stockholders, our initial stockholders or their permitted transferees will be entitled to rights to demand two times that we register the resale of the founder shares and the sponsor warrants (and shares underlying the sponsor warrants) at any time, in addition to certain “piggyback” registration rights applicable to registration statements filed by us, generally commencing one year after the consummation of the reverse merger as to the founder shares and two months after the consummation of the reverse merger as to the sponsor warrants (and shares underlying the sponsor warrants). The presence of these additional securities trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. The sale by any of the foregoing, or entities they control or their permitted transferees, could cause the market price of our securities to decline. 26 Our ability to request indemnification from the UE Owners for damages arising out of the reverse merger is limited to those claims where damages exceed $600,000 and is also limited to the shares of common stock issued in the reverse merger that are held in escrow or may be set-off against earn-out payments. To provide a fund to secure the indemnification obligations of Ultimate Escapes Holdings to us against losses that we may sustain as a result of (i) the inaccuracy or breach of any representation or warranty made by Ultimate Escapes Holdings or any UE Owner in the Contribution Agreement or any schedule or certificate delivered by it or the UE Owners in connection with the Contribution Agreement and (ii) the non-fulfillment or breach of any covenant or agreement made by Ultimate Escapes Holdings in the Contribution Agreement, the UE Owners placed in escrow an aggregate of 717,884 ownership units of Ultimate Escapes Holdings, or 10% of the aggregate number of ownership units owned by the UE Owners immediately prior to the reverse merger. With respect to claims based upon certain representations and warrants deemed “Fundamental Representations” by the parties or fraud or intentional misconduct, those claims are not limited to the escrowed units but are subject to a cap of 25% of the aggregate number of ownership units owned by the UE Owners immediately prior to the reverse merger, which amount in excess of the escrowed units may be satisfied by us setting off such claims against payments due to the UE Owners for any future earn-out payments. Claims for indemnification may be asserted against the escrow by us once our damages exceed a $600,000 deductible and will be reimbursable, by cancellation of such units or set-off against future earn-out payments, as applicable, to the full extent of the damages in excess of such amount. Claims for indemnification may be asserted until the later of fifteen days after the date on which we file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2010 or April 15, 2011, with respect to certain claims; up to the applicable statute of limitations with respect to claims based upon the breach of certain designated representations and warranties; and up to the sixth anniversary of the closing date of the Contribution Agreement with respect to claims based upon the breach of “Fundamental Representations” by the parties or fraud or intentional or willful misrepresentation or omission. As a consequence of these limitations, we may not be able to be entirely compensated for indemnifiable damages that we may sustain. Public stockholders at the time of the reverse merger who purchased units in our initial public offering and did not exercise their conversion rights may have rescission rights and related claims. There were several aspects of the reverse merger and the other matters which were not described in the prospectus issued by us in connection with our initial public offering. These include: that we may consummate a business combination outside of the homeland security industry; that we may seek to amend the definition of “business combination” in our certificate of incorporation; that we may seek to amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide conversion rights to holders of public shares, regardless of whether such holder votes for or against the business combination; that the funds in the trust account might be used to purchase shares from our stockholders who have indicated their intention to vote against the reverse merger and convert their shares into cash; and that we may seek to amend the terms of the warrant agreement between us, our warrant agent and warrant holders (the “Warrant Agreement”), to revise the exercise price and the expiration date. Consequently, our consummation of a business combination with Ultimate Escapes Holdings (which does not operate in the homeland security industry), our filing of certain charter amendments in connection with the reverse merger, our use of funds in the trust account to purchase shares of stockholders who had indicated their intention to vote against the reverse merger or our amendment of the Warrant Agreement might be grounds for a stockholder who purchased shares in the initial public offering, excluding our founders, and still held them at the time of the reverse merger without seeking to convert them into cash, to seek rescission of the purchase of the units he acquired in the initial public offering. A successful claimant for damages under federal or state law could be awarded an amount to compensate for the decrease in value of his or her shares caused by the alleged violation (including, possibly, punitive damages), together with interest, while retaining the shares. If we are required to pay damages, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 27 If the reverse merger’s benefits do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our securities may decline. The market price of our securities may decline if: • we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the reverse merger as rapidly, or to the extent anticipated by, financial or industry analysts; or • the effect of the reverse merger on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. Accordingly, investors may experience a loss as a result of a decline in the market price of our securities. A decline in the market price of our securities also could adversely affect our ability to issue additional securities and our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. Volatility of our stock price could adversely affect stockholders. The market price of our common stock could also fluctuate significantly as a result of: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • interest rate changes; • changes in the market’s expectations about our operating results; • our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our company or our industry in general; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends in our markets; • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; • general economic and political conditions such as recessions and acts of war or terrorism; and • other matters discussed in the risk factors. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock could contribute to the loss of all or part of an investor’s investment in our company. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and consequently your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We currently do not plan to declare dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. The terms of our current indebtedness contain, and agreements governing future indebtedness will likely contain, restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in the common stock of our company will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your common stock at a profit. 28 ITEM 