ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s operations and its securities are subject to a number of risks, including those described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, the business, financial condition or operating results of the Company and the trading price or value of its securities could be materially adversely affected. Risk Related to the Company’s Business The Company’s limited operating history makes it difficult to predict future results and raises substantial doubt as to its ability to successfully develop profitable business operations. The Company’s limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate its current business and prospects or to accurately predict its future revenue or results of operations, and raises substantial doubt as to its ability to successfully develop profitable business operations. The Company’s revenue and income potential are unproven. As a result of its early stage of development, and to keep up with the frequent changes in the energy industry, it is necessary for the Company to analyze and revise its business strategy on an ongoing basis. Companies in early stages of development, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving energy industry segments, are generally more vulnerable to risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties than more established companies. The Company’s ability to diversify risks by participating in multiple projects and joint ventures depends upon its ability to raise capital and the availability of suitable prospects, and any failure to raise needed capital and secure suitable projects would negatively affect the Company’s ability to operate. The Company’s business strategy includes spreading the risk of oil and natural gas exploration, development and drilling, and ownership of interests in oil and natural gas properties, by participating in multiple projects and joint ventures, in particular with major Chinese government-owned oil and gas companies as joint venture partners. If the Company is unable to secure sufficient attractive projects as a result of its inability to raise sufficient capital or - 16 - - otherwise, the average quality of the projects and joint venture opportunities may decline and the risk of the Company’s overall operations could increase. The loss of key employees could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate. The Company believes that its success depends on the continued service of its key employees, as well as the Company’s ability to hire additional key employees, when and as needed. Each of Frank C. Ingriselli, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Stephen F. Groth, its Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Richard Grigg, the Company’s Senior Vice President and Managing Director, has the right to terminate his employment at any time without penalty under his employment agreement. The unexpected loss of the services of either Mr. Ingriselli, Mr. Groth, Mr. Grigg, or any other key employee, or the Company’s failure to find suitable replacements within a reasonable period of time thereafter, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to execute its business plan and therefore, on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to raise the additional capital necessary to execute its business strategy, which could result in the curtailment or cessation of the Company’s operations. The Company will need to raise substantial additional funds to fully fund its existing operations, consummate all of its current asset transfer and acquisition opportunities currently contemplated with ChevronTexaco, BHP and Well Lead, and for the development, production, trading and expansion of its business. On December 31, 2008, the Company had positive working capital of approximately $11.2 million (including $10.5 million in cash and cash equivalents). The Company has no current arrangements with respect to sources of additional financing and the needed additional financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms on a timely basis, or at all. The inability to obtain additional financing, when needed, would have a negative effect on the Company, including possibly requiring it to curtail or cease operations. If any future financing involves the sale of the Company’s equity securities, the shares of common stock held by its stockholders could be substantially diluted. If the Company borrows money or issues debt securities, it will be subject to the risks associated with indebtedness, including the risk that interest rates may fluctuate and the possibility that it may not be able to pay principal and interest on the indebtedness when due. Insufficient funds will prevent the Company from implementing its business plan and will require it to delay, scale back, or eliminate certain of its programs or to license to third parties rights to commercialize rights in fields that it would otherwise seek to develop itself. Failure by the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations could eventually result in the cessation of the Company’s operations and require the Company to seek outside financing or discontinue operations. The Company’s business activities require substantial capital from outside sources as well as from internally-generated sources. The Company’s ability to finance a portion of its working capital and capital expenditure requirements with cash flow from operations will be subject to a number of variables, such as: · the level of production of existing wells; · prices of oil and natural gas; · the success and timing of development of proved undeveloped reserves; · cost overruns; · remedial work to improve a well’s producing capability; · direct costs and general and administrative expenses of operations; · reserves, including a reserve for the estimated costs of eventually plugging and abandoning the wells; · indemnification obligations of the Company for losses or liabilities incurred in connection with the Company’s activities; and · general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond the Company’s control. - 17 - - The Company might not generate or sustain cash flow at sufficient levels to finance its business activities. If the Company’s revenues were to decrease due to lower oil and natural gas prices, decreased production or other factors, and if it were unable to obtain capital through reasonable financing arrangements, such as a credit line, or otherwise, its ability to execute its business plan would be limited and it could be required to discontinue operations. The Company’s failure to capitalize on its two existing definitive production agreements, to consummate the transactions contemplated by the ChevronTexaco ATA, BHP ATA or AOC with Well Lead, and/or enter into additional agreements, would likely result in its inability to generate sufficient revenues and continue operations. The Company’s only definitive production contracts that have been secured to date are the Contract for Cooperation and Joint Development with Chifeng covering an oil field in Inner Mongolia and the Zijinshan PSC related to coalbed methane and tight gas sand production in China. The Company has also entered into asset transfer agreements with ChevronTexaco and BHP and an AOC with Well Lead, the consummation of which remains dependent upon a number of closing conditions, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. The Company has not entered into definitive agreements with respect to any other ventures that it is currently pursuing, and the Company’s ability to secure one or more of these additional ventures is subject to, among other things, (i) the amount of capital the Company raises in the future; (ii) the availability of land for exploration and development in the geographical regions in which the Company’s business is focused; (iii) the nature and number of competitive offers for the same projects on which the Company is bidding; and (iv) approval by government and industry officials. The Company may not be successful in executing definitive agreements in connection with any other ventures, or otherwise be able to secure any additional ventures it pursues in the future. Failure of the Company to capitalize on its existing contracts and/or to secure one or more additional business opportunities would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations, and would, in all likelihood, result in the cessation of the Company’s business operations. The Company’s oil and gas operations will involve many operating risks that can cause substantial losses. The Company expects to produce, transport and market potentially toxic materials, and purchase, handle and dispose of other potentially toxic materials in the course of its business. The Company’s operations will produce byproducts, which may be considered pollutants. Any of these activities could result in liability, either as a result of an accidental, unlawful discharge or as a result of new findings on the effects the Company’s operations on human health or the environment. Additionally, the Company’s oil and gas operations may also involve one or more of the following risks: · fires; · explosions; · blow-outs; · uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, formation water, or drilling fluids; · natural disasters; · pipe or cement failures; · casing collapses; · embedded oilfield drilling and service tools; · abnormally pressured formations; · damages caused by vandalism and terrorist acts; and · environmental hazards such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. In the event that any of the foregoing events occur, the Company could incur substantial losses as a result of (i) injury or loss of life; (ii) severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources or equipment; (iii) pollution and other environmental damage; (iv) investigatory and clean-up responsibilities; (v) regulatory investigation and penalties; (vi) suspension of its operations; or (vii) repairs to resume operations. If the Company experiences any of - 18 - - these problems, its ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from typhoons or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. The Company is a development-stage company and expects to continue to incur losses for a significant period of time. The Company is a recently formed development-stage company with minimal revenues to date. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had an accumulated deficit of approximately $9.0 million. The Company expects to continue to incur significant expenses relating to its identification of new ventures and investment costs relating to these ventures. Additionally, fixed commitments, including salaries and fees for employees and consultants, rent and other contractual commitments may be substantial and are likely to increase as additional ventures are entered into and personnel are retained prior to the generation of significant revenue. Energy ventures, such as oil well drilling projects, generally require significant periods of time before they produce resources and in turn generate profits. The Company may not achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, or at all. The Company will be dependent upon others for the storage and transportation of oil and gas, which could significantly reduce its profitability. The Company does not own storage or transportation facilities and, therefore, will depend upon third parties to store and transport all of its oil and gas resources. The Company will likely be subject to price changes and termination provisions in any contracts it may enter into with these third-party service providers. The Company may not be able to identify such third-parties for any particular project. Even if such sources are initially identified, the Company may not be able to identify alternative storage and transportation providers in the event of contract price increases or termination. In the event the Company is unable to find acceptable third-party service providers, it would be required to contract for its own storage facilities and employees to transport the Company’s resources. The Company may not have sufficient capital available to assume these obligations, and its inability to do so could result in the cessation of its business. The Company may not be able to manage its anticipated growth, which could result in the disruption of the Company’s operations and prevent the Company from generating meaningful revenue. Subject to its receipt of additional capital, the Company plans to significantly expand operations to accommodate additional development projects and other opportunities. This expansion will likely strain its management, operations, systems and financial resources. To manage its recent growth and any future growth of its operations and personnel, the Company must improve and effectively utilize its existing operational, management and financial systems and successfully recruit, hire, train and manage personnel and maintain close coordination among its technical, finance, development and production staffs. The Company may need to hire additional personnel in certain operational and other areas during 2009. In addition, the Company may also need to increase the capacity of its software, hardware and telecommunications systems on short notice, and will need to manage an increasing number of complex relationships with strategic partners and other third parties. The failure to manage this growth could disrupt the Company’s operations and ultimately prevent the Company from generating meaningful revenue. An interruption in the supply of materials, resources and services the Company plans to obtain from third party sources could cause a decline in revenue. Once it has identified, financed, and acquired projects, the Company will need to obtain other materials, resources and services, including, but not limited to, specialized chemicals and specialty muds and drilling fluids, pipe, drill-string, geological and geophysical mapping and interruption services. There may be only a limited number of manufacturers and suppliers of these materials, resources and services. These manufacturers and suppliers may experience difficulty in supplying such materials, resources and services to the Company sufficient to meet its needs or may terminate or fail to renew contracts for supplying these materials, resources or services on terms the Company finds acceptable including, without limitation, acceptable pricing terms. Any significant interruption in the supply of any of these materials, resources or services, or significant increases in the amounts the Company is required to pay for these materials, resources or services, could result in a reduction in the Company’s profitability, or the cessation of its operations, if it is unable to replace any material sources in a reasonable period of time. - 19 - - The Company does not have a plan to carry insurance policies in China and will be at risk of incurring personal injury claims for its employees and subcontractors, and incurring loss of business due to theft, accidents or natural disasters. The Company does not carry, and does not plan to carry, any policies of insurance to cover any type of risk to its business in China, including, without limitation, the risks discussed above. In the event that the Company were to incur substantial liabilities with respect to one or more incidents, this could adversely affect its operations and it may not have the necessary capital to pay its portion of such costs and maintain business operations. The Company is exposed to concentration of credit risk, which may result in losses in the future. The Company is exposed to concentration of credit risk with respect to cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term advances. As the Company chooses to maximize investment of its U.S. cash into higher yield investments rather than keeping the amounts in bank accounts, there is a high concentration of credit risk on remaining cash balances which are located principally in China. At December 31, 2008, 78% ($975,681) of the Company’s total cash was on deposit in China at the Bank of China. Also at that date, 48.7% ($4,514,167) of the Company’s total cash equivalents was invested in a single money market fund in the U.S. composed of securities of numerous issuers. At December 31, 2007, 90% ($1,406,357) of the Company’s total cash was on deposit in China at the Bank of China. Also at that date, the Company’s cash equivalents were invested in two money market funds, of which 54% ($348,561) was in a single fund; 18% ($2,000,000) and 15% ($1,650,000) of the Company’s U.S. short-term investments were invested in securities of two individual Moody’s Aaa-rated issuers. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, 100% of the Company’s long-term advances ($386,415 in 2008, and $534,530 in 2007) were receivable as notes from a single borrower, BJHTC, an unaffiliated Chinese corporation and 3% owner of IMPCO Sunrise, a Chinese joint venture company which is owned 97% by IMPCO HK. The Company recorded an impairment charge of $273,618 on these notes in 2008, reflecting principally the write-off of accrued interest income included in the principal balance of the notes. Risks Related to the Company’s Industry The Company may not be successful in finding petroleum resources or developing resources, and if it fails to do so, the Company will likely cease operations. The Company will be operating primarily in the petroleum extractive business; therefore, if it is not successful in finding crude oil and natural gas sources with good prospects for future production, and exploiting such sources, its business will not be profitable and it may be forced to terminate its operations. Exploring and exploiting oil and gas or other sources of energy entails significant risks, which risks can only be partially mitigated by technology and experienced personnel. The Company or any ventures it acquires or participates in may not be successful in finding petroleum or other energy sources; or, if it is successful in doing so, the Company may not be successful in developing such resources and producing quantities that will be sufficient to permit the Company to conduct profitable operations. The Company’s future success will depend in large part on the success of its drilling programs and creating and maintaining an inventory of projects. Creating and maintaining an inventory of projects depends on many factors, including, among other things, obtaining rights to explore, develop and produce hydrocarbons in promising areas, drilling success, ability to bring long lead-time, capital intensive projects to completion on budget and schedule, and efficient and profitable operation of mature properties. The Company’s inability to successfully identify and exploit crude oil and natural gas sources would have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations and would, in all likelihood, result in the cessation of its business operations. In addition to the numerous operating risks described in more detail in this report, exploring and exploitation of energy sources involve the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be discovered or, if discovered, that the cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing wells will not result in profitable operations. The Company’s drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or abandoned as a result of a variety of factors, including: · adverse weather conditions; · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure or irregularities in formations; - 20 - - · equipment failures or accidents; · inability to comply with governmental requirements; · shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment; and · shortages or unavailability of qualified labor to complete the drilling programs according to the business plan schedule. The energy market in which the Company plans to operate is highly competitive and the Company may not be able to compete successfully against its current and future competitors, which could seriously harm the Company’s business. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, particularly with respect to access to drilling rigs and other services, the acquisition of properties and the hiring and retention of technical personnel. The Company expects competition in the market to remain intense because of the increasing global demand for energy, and that competition will increase significantly as new companies enter the market and current competitors continue to seek new sources of energy and leverage existing sources. Recently, higher commodity prices and stiff competition for acquisitions have significantly increased the cost of available properties. Many of the Company’s competitors, including large oil companies, have an established presence in Asia and the Pacific Rim countries and have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, development, extraction and other resources and greater name recognition than the Company does. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, changes in regulations affecting the industry, newly discovered resources and exploration opportunities, as well as to large swings in oil and natural gas prices. In addition, increased competition could result in lower energy prices, and reduced margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm the Company’s business. Furthermore, increased competition may harm the Company’s ability to secure ventures on terms favorable to it and may lead to higher costs and reduced profitability, which may seriously harm its business. The Company’s business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile energy prices, which volatility could adversely affect its ability to operate profitably. The Company’s business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide. Oil and gas prices, market expectations of potential changes in these prices and a variety of political and economic and weather-related factors significantly affect this level of activity. Oil and gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors, including: · the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; · the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, commonly called “OPEC,” to set and maintain production levels and pricing; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · weather conditions; · the level of consumer demand; · global economic conditions; · political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and · government regulations. Within the past 12 months, light crude oil futures have ranged from below $40 per barrel to nearly $150 per barrel, and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. With respect to ventures in China, the prices the Company will receive for oil and gas, in connection with any of its production ventures, will likely be regulated and set by the government. As a result, these prices may be well below the market price established in world markets. Therefore, the Company may be subject to arbitrary changes in prices that may adversely affect its ability to operate profitably. - 21 - - If the Company does not hedge its exposure to reductions in oil and gas prices, it may be subject to the risk of significant reductions in prices; alternatively, use by the Company of oil and gas price hedging contracts could limit future revenues from price increases. To date, the Company has not entered into any hedging transactions but may do so in the future. In the event that the Company chooses not to hedge its exposure to reductions in oil and gas prices by purchasing futures and by using other hedging strategies, it could be subject to significant reduction in prices which could have a material negative impact on its profitability. Alternatively, the Company may elect to use hedging transactions with respect to a portion of its oil and gas production to achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce its exposure to price fluctuations. The use of hedging transactions could limit future revenues from price increases and could also expose the Company to adverse changes in basis risk, the relationship between the price of the specific oil or gas being hedged and the price of the commodity underlying the futures contracts or other instruments used in the hedging transaction. Hedging transactions also involve the risk that the counterparty does not satisfy its obligations. The Company may be required to take non-cash asset write-downs if oil and natural gas prices decline, which could have a negative impact on the Company’s earnings. Under applicable accounting rules, the Company may be required to write down the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties if oil and natural gas prices decline or if there are substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves, increases in its estimates of development costs or deterioration in its exploration results. Accounting standard FAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” requires the Company to review its long-lived assets for possible impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable over time. In such cases, if the asset’s estimated undiscounted future cash flows are less than its carrying amount, impairment exists. Any impairment write-down, which would equal the excess of the carrying amount of the assets being written down over their fair value, would have a negative impact on the Company’s earnings, which could be material. Risks Related to Chinese and Other International Operations The Company’s Chinese and other international operations will subject it to certain risks inherent in conducting business operations in China and other foreign countries, including political instability and foreign government regulation, which could significantly impact the Company’s ability to operate in such countries and impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company conducts substantially all of its business in China. The Company’s Chinese operations and anticipated operations in other foreign countries are, and will be, subject to risks generally associated with conducting businesses in foreign countries, such as: · foreign laws and regulations that may be materially different from those of the United States; · changes in applicable laws and regulations; · challenges to, or failure of, title; · labor and political unrest; · foreign currency fluctuations; · changes in foreign economic and political conditions; · export and import restrictions; · tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · longer time periods in collecting revenues; · difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and enforcing agreements; · possible loss of properties due to nationalization or expropriation; and - 22 - - · limitations on repatriation of income or capital. Specifically, foreign governments may enact and enforce laws and regulations requiring increased ownership by businesses and/or state agencies in energy producing businesses and the facilities used by these businesses, which could adversely affect the Company’s ownership interests in then existing ventures. The Company’s ownership structure may not be adequate to accomplish the Company’s business objectives in China or in any other foreign jurisdiction where the Company may operate. Foreign governments also may impose additional taxes and/or royalties on the Company’s business, which would adversely affect the Company’s profitability. In certain locations, governments have imposed restrictions, controls and taxes, and in others, political conditions have existed that may threaten the safety of employees and the Company’s continued presence in those countries. Internal unrest, acts of violence or strained relations between a foreign government and the Company or other governments may adversely affect its operations. These developments may, at times, significantly affect the Company’s results of operations, and must be carefully considered by its management when evaluating the level of current and future activity in such countries. Compliance and enforcement of environmental laws and regulations may cause the Company to incur significant expenditures and require resources, which it may not have. Extensive national, regional and local environmental laws and regulations in China and other Pacific Rim countries are expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s operations. These laws and regulations set various standards regulating certain aspects of health and environmental quality, which provide for user fees, penalties and other liabilities for the violation of these standards. As new environmental laws and regulations are enacted and existing laws are repealed, interpretation, application and enforcement of the laws may become inconsistent. Compliance with applicable local laws in the future could require significant expenditures, which may adversely effect the Company’s operations. The enactment of any such laws, rules or regulations in the future may have a negative impact on the Company’s projected growth, which could in turn decrease its projected revenues or increase its cost of doing business. A foreign government could change its policies toward private enterprise or even nationalize or expropriate private enterprises, which could result in the total loss of the Company’s investment in that country. The Company’s business is subject to significant political and economic uncertainties and may be adversely affected by political, economic and social developments in China or in any other foreign jurisdiction in which it operates. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity, foreign investment and greater economic decentralization. The Chinese government may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to the Company’s detriment from time to time with little, if any, prior notice. Changes in policies, laws and regulations or in their interpretation or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to stockholders, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Nationalization or expropriation could even result in the loss of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets and in the total loss of your investment in the Company. Because the Company plans to conduct substantially all of its business in China, fluctuations in exchange rates and restrictions on currency conversions could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company expects that it will conduct substantially all of its business in China, and its financial performance and condition will be measured in terms of the RMB. It is difficult to assess whether a devaluation or revaluation (upwards valuation) of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial performance and asset values when measured in terms of U.S. dollars. An increase in the RMB would raise the Company’s costs incurred in RMB; however, it is not clear whether the underlying cause of the revaluation would also cause an increase in the Company’s price received for oil or gas which would have the opposite effect of increasing the Company’s margins and improving its financial performance. - 23 - - The Company’s financial condition could also be adversely affected as a result of its inability to obtain the governmental approvals necessary for the conversion of RMB into U.S. dollars in certain transactions of capital, such as direct capital investments in Chinese companies by foreign investors. Currently, there are few means and/or financial tools available in the open market for the Company to hedge its exchange risk against any possible revaluation or devaluation of RMB. Because the Company does not currently intend to engage in hedging activities to protect against foreign currency risks, future movements in the exchange rate of the RMB could have an adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. If relations between the United States and China were to deteriorate, investors might be unwilling to hold or buy the Company’s stock and its stock price may decrease. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had significant disagreements over political, economic and security issues. Additional controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between these two countries, whether or not directly related to the Company’s business, could adversely effect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. If the United States imposes trade sanctions on China due to its current currency policies, the Company’s operations could be materially and adversely affected. Over the past few years, China has “pegged” its currency to the United States dollar. This means that each unit of Chinese currency has had a set ratio for which it may be exchanged for United States currency, as opposed to having a floating value like many other countries’ currencies. This policy has been under review by policy makers in the United States. Trade groups in the United States have blamed the cheap value of the Chinese currency for causing job losses in American factories, giving exporters an unfair advantage and making its imports expensive. Congress has been considering the enactment of legislation, with the view of imposing new tariffs on Chinese imports. Following increasing pressure for China to change its currency policies, in 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced its decision to strengthen the exchange rate of the Chinese currency to the U.S. dollar, revaluing the Chinese currency by 2.1% and to introduce a “managed floating exchange rate regime.” Since that time, the exchange rate of the Chinese currency has been allowed to float against a basket of currencies. It is difficult to anticipate the reaction of the United States Congress to this reform. If Congress deems that China is still gaining a trade advantage from its exchange currency policy, and an additional tariff is imposed, it is possible that China-based companies will no longer maintain significant price advantages over U.S. and other foreign companies on their goods and services, and that the rapid growth of China’s economy would slow as a result. If the United States or other countries enact laws to penalize China for its currency policies, the Company’s business could be materially and adversely affected. A lack of adequate remedies and impartiality under the Chinese legal system may adversely impact the Company’s ability to do business and to enforce the agreements to which it is a party. The Company anticipates that it will be entering into numerous agreements governed by Chinese law. The Company’s business would be materially and adversely affected if these agreements were not enforced. In the event of a dispute, enforcement of these agreements in China could be extremely difficult. Unlike the United States, China has a civil law system based on written statutes in which judicial decisions have little precedential value. The government’s experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing certain recently enacted laws and regulations is limited, and the Company’s ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is uncertain. Furthermore, enforcement of the laws and regulations may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. These uncertainties could limit the protections that are available to the Company. The Company’s stockholders may not be able to enforce United States civil liabilities claims. Many of the Company’s assets are expected to be located outside the United States and held through one or more wholly-owned subsidiaries incorporated under the laws of foreign jurisdictions, including Hong Kong and China. The Company’s operations are expected to be conducted in China and other Pacific Rim countries. In addition, some of the Company’s directors and officers, including directors and officers of its subsidiaries, may be residents of countries other than the United States. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons may be located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders to effect service of process within the - 24 - - United States upon these persons. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of China and other Pacific Rim countries would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against the Company or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in these countries against the Company or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. Risks Related to the Company’s Stock The market price of the Company’s stock may be adversely affected by a number of factors related to the Company’s performance, the performance of other energy-related companies and the stock market in general. The market prices of securities of energy companies are extremely volatile and sometimes reach unsustainable levels that bear no relationship to the past or present operating performance of such companies. Factors that may contribute to the volatility of the trading price of the Company’s Common Stock include, among others: · the Company’s quarterly results of operations; · the variance between the Company’s actual quarterly results of operations and predictions by stock analysts; · financial predictions and recommendations by stock analysts concerning energy companies and companies competing in the Company’s market in general, and concerning the Company in particular; · public announcements of regulatory changes or new ventures relating to the Company’s business, new products or services by the Company or its competitors, or acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances by the Company or its competitors; · public reports concerning the Company’s services or those of its competitors; · the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors or stock analysts may deem comparable to the Company; · large purchases or sales of the Company’s Common Stock; · investor perception of the Company’s business prospects or the oil and gas industry in general; and · general economic and financial conditions. In addition to the foregoing factors, the trading prices for equity securities in the stock market in general, and of energy-related companies in particular, have been subject to wide fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of the particular company affected by such fluctuations. Consequently, broad market fluctuations may have an adverse effect on the trading price of the Common Stock, regardless of the Company’s results of operations. The limited market for the Company’s Common Stock may adversely affect trading prices or the ability of a shareholder to sell the Company’s shares in the public market at or near ask prices or at all if a shareholder needs to liquidate its shares. The Company’s Common Stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) and there is a very limited market for the Common Stock that may not be maintained or broadened. The market price for shares of the Company’s Common Stock has been, and is expected to continue to be, very volatile. Numerous factors beyond the Company’s control may have a significant effect on the market price for shares of the Company’s Common Stock, including the fact that the Company is a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume. Even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and may be reluctant to follow an unproven, early stage company such as the Company or purchase or recommend the purchase of its shares until such time as the Company becomes more seasoned and viable. There may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in the Company’s shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. Due to these - 25 - - conditions, investors may not be able to sell their shares at or near ask prices or at all if investors need money or otherwise desire to liquidate their shares. The Company’s securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may limit the liquidity and price of the Company’s securities more that if such securities were quoted or listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. The Company’s securities are currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, an NASD-sponsored and operated inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not included in the Nasdaq Stock Market. Quotation of the Company’s securities on the OTC Bulletin Board may limit the liquidity and price of its securities more than if its securities were quoted or listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. Some investors may perceive the Company’s securities to be less attractive because they are traded in the over-the-counter market. In addition, as an OTC Bulletin Board listed company, the Company does not attract the extensive analyst coverage companies listed on Nasdaq or other regional or national exchanges often receive. Further, institutional and other investors may have investment guidelines that restrict or prohibit investing in securities traded in the over-the-counter market. These factors may have an adverse impact on the trading and price of the Company’s securities. Substantial sales of the Company’s Common Stock could cause the Company’s stock price to fall. As of February 27, 2009, the Company had outstanding 40,061,785 shares of Common Stock, substantially all of which are eligible for sale under Rule 144. The Company has also entered into registration rights agreements with shareholders covering the resale of 23,678,957 of such shares. These registration rights agreements provide that if the Company becomes a publicly reporting company under the Exchange Act and successfully lists its shares for trading on a national securities exchange (the “Listing Date”), then the Company shall be required to use commercially reasonable efforts to prepare and file a registration statement under the Securities Act covering the resale of all the Registerable Securities (as defined in the registration rights agreements) within 60 days following the Listing Date and to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC within 210 days after the Listing Date. In addition, the registration rights agreements entitle the holders to demand two registrations of their securities after the Company has effected a registered public offering of its Common Stock and unlimited number of piggy-back registrations. The possibility that substantial amounts of Common Stock may be sold in the public market may adversely affect prevailing market prices for the Common Stock and could impair the Company’s ability to raise capital through the sale of its equity securities. The Company’s issuance of Preferred Stock could adversely affect the value of the Company’s Common Stock. The Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 50 million shares of Preferred Stock, which shares constitute what is commonly referred to as “blank check” Preferred Stock. Approximately 26 million shares of Preferred Stock are currently available for issuance. This Preferred Stock may be issued by the Board of Directors from time to time on any number of occasions, without stockholder approval, as one or more separate series of shares comprised of any number of the authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, designated by resolution of the Board of Directors, stating the name and number of shares of each series and setting forth separately for such series the relative rights, privileges and preferences thereof, including, if any, the: (i) rate of dividends payable thereon; (ii) price, terms and conditions of redemption; (iii) voluntary and involuntary liquidation preferences; (iv) provisions of a sinking fund for redemption or repurchase; (v) terms of conversion to Common Stock, including conversion price; and (vi) voting rights. The designation of such shares could be dilutive of the interest of the holders of our Common Stock. The ability to issue such Preferred Stock could also give the Company’s Board of Directors the ability to hinder or discourage any attempt to gain control of the Company by a merger, tender offer at a control premium price, proxy contest or otherwise. The Common Stock may be deemed “penny stock” and therefore subject to special requirements that could make the trading of the Company’s Common Stock difficult. The Company’s Common Stock may be deemed to be a “penny stock” as that term is defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Penny stocks are stocks (i) with a price of less than five dollars per share; (ii) that are not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) whose prices are not quoted on the NASDAQ automated quotation system (NASDAQ-listed stocks must still meet requirement (i) above); or (iv) of issuers with net tangible assets of less than $2,000,000 (if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least - 26 - - three years) or $5,000,000 (if in continuous operation for less than three years), or with average revenues of less than $6,000,000 for the last three years. Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act, and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder, require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Moreover, Rule 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for investors in the Common Stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them. The Company’s executive officers, directors and major stockholders hold a substantial amount of the Company’s Common Stock and may be able to prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of February 27, 2009, the executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock together beneficially owned approximately 33.0% of the outstanding Common Stock. These stockholders, if they were to act together, would likely be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by stockholders, including the election of Directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without the support of these stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable ITEM 