risk factors discussed under “Risk Factors”. The words “believe”, “may”, “will”, “estimate”, “continue”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “expect” and similar words are intended to identify estimates and forward-looking statements. Estimates and forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and we undertake no obligation to update or to review any estimate and/or forward-looking statement because of new information, future events or other factors. Estimates and forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. Our future results may differ materially from those expressed in these estimates and forward-looking statements. In light of the risks and uncertainties described above, the estimates and forward-looking statements discussed in this transition report might not occur and our future results and our performance may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements due to but not limited to, the factors mentioned above. Because of these uncertainties, you should not make any investment decision based on these estimates and forward-looking statements. Table of Contents Presentation of Financial and Other Information We maintain our books and records in U.S. dollars and prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We have modified our fiscal year to end on March 31. We have included in this transition report our audited consolidated financial statements at and for the eleven months ended March 31, 2009 and for the years ended April 30, 2008 and 2007 prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. For comparison purposes, we have also included as an exhibit to this transition report our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet, income statement, cash flows and statement of changes in shareholders’ equity for the eleven month period ended March 31, 2008. Unless otherwise indicated, all financial information of our company included in this transition report has been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Cosan S.A. Indústria e Comércio or “Cosan” acquired Açucareira Corona S.A., or “Corona”, Mundial Açúcar e Álcool S.A., or “Mundial” and Usina Açucareira Bom Retiro S.A., or “Bom Retiro” and also increased its ownership in FBA—Franco Brasileira S.A. Açúcar e Álcool, or “FBA”, from 47.5% to 99.9% in fiscal year 2006. We also made other smaller acquisitions in fiscal year 2007. In addition, in December 2008, Cosan acquired 100% of the capital of Esso Brasileira de Petróleo Ltda., or “Essobras” (Cosan Combustíveis e Lubrificantes S.A., or “CCL”), and certain affiliates, marketers and distributors of fuel and lubricants in the Brazilian retail and wholesale markets as well as aviation fuel supply from ExxonMobil International Holding B.V., or “Exxon”, which may affect the comparability of the financial information for the periods presented in this transition report. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—A. History and Development of the Company—Acquisitions, Partnerships and Corporate Restructurings.” Fiscal Year We have modified our fiscal year end. Beginning in 2009, our and Cosan’s fiscal year ends on March 31. Previously our fiscal year ended on April 30. References in this transition report to “transition fiscal year 2009” and “transition period 2008” relate to the eleven months ended on March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. References in this transition report to “fiscal year 2008” or prior fiscal years relate to the fiscal year ended on April 30 of that calendar year. However, for purposes of calculating income and social contribution taxes in accordance with Brazilian tax laws, the applicable year ends on December 31. Market Data We obtained market and competitive position data, including market forecasts, used throughout this transition report from market research, publicly available information and industry publications, as well as internal surveys. We include data from reports prepared by LMC International Ltd., or “LMC”, the Central Bank of Brazil (Banco Central do Brasil), or the “Central Bank”, Sugarcane Agroindustry Association of the State of São Paulo (União da Agroindústria Canavieira de São Paulo), or “UNICA”, Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística), or “IBGE”, the National Traffic Agency (Departamento Nacional de Trânsito), or DENATRAN, the Brazilian Association of Vehicle Manufactures (Associação Nacional dos Fabricantes de Veículos Automotores), or “ANFAVEA”, Datagro Publicações Ltda., or “Datagro”, F.O. Licht, Czarnikow, Apoio e Vendas Procana Comunicações Ltda., the São Paulo Stock, Commodities and Futures Exchange (BM&FBOVESPA S.A. – Bolsa de Valores, Mercadorias e Futuros), or “BM&FBOVESPA”, the International Sugar Organization, the Brazilian National Economic and Social Development Bank (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social), or “BNDES”, the New York Board of Trade, or NYBOT, the New York Stock Exchange and the London Stock Exchange. We believe that all market data in this transition report is reliable, accurate and complete. Terms Used in this Transition Report In this transition report, we present information in gallons and liters. One gallon is equal to approximately 3.78 liters. In addition, we also present information in tons. In this transition report, references to “ton” refer to the metric ton, which is equal to 1,000 kilograms. 2 Table of Contents All references in this transition report to “TSR” are to total sugar recovered, which represents the total amount of sugar content in the sugarcane. All references in this transition report to “U.S. dollars,” “dollars” or “US$” are to U.S. dollars. All references to the “real”, “reais” or “R$” are to the Brazilian real, the official currency of Brazil. Rounding We have rounding adjustments to reach some of the figures included in this transition report. Accordingly, numerical figures shown as totals in some tables may not be an arithmetic aggregation of the figures that preceded them. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers Not applicable. Item 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable Not applicable. Item 3. Key Information A. Selected Financial Data The following table presents selected historical financial and operating data for Cosan Limited, or the “Company”, derived from our financial statements and for its predecessor for certain periods. You should read the following information in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes, and the information under “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” in this transition report. U.S. GAAP The financial data at and for the eleven month period ended March 31, 2009 and at and for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The financial data at and for the eleven month period ended March 31, 2008 is unaudited and presented solely for the purpose of providing a meaningful comparison with the eleven month period ended March 31, 2009. For Eleven Months Ended March 31, For Fiscal Year Ended April 30, 2009 (audited) 2008 (unaudited) 2008 2007 2006 2005 (in millions of US$) Statement of Operations Data: Net sales US$ 2,926.5 US$ 1,284.1 US$ 1,491.2 US$ 1,679.1 US$ 1,096.6 US$ 644.4 Sugar 843.1 671.8 784.5 1,031.7 660.5 415.8 Ethanol 548.7 518.9 604.7 551.5 378.4 178.4 Fuel distribution 1,440.3 – – – – – Other products and services 94.4 93.4 102.1 95.8 57.8 50.1 Cost of goods sold (2,621.9 ) (1,170.5 ) (1,345.6 ) (1,191.3 ) (796.3 ) (456.6 ) Gross profit 304.6 113.6 145.6 487.8 300.3 187.8 Selling expenses (213.3 ) (151.0 ) (168.6 ) (133.8 ) (97.8 ) (57.8 ) General and administrative expenses (140.1 ) (105.1 ) (115.1 ) (121.1 ) (72.0 ) (40.0 ) Operating income (loss) (48.8 ) (142.5 ) (138.1 ) 232.9 130.5 90.0 Other income (expenses): Financial income 365.0 250.7 274.8 555.6 186.5 76.8 Financial expenses (735.8 ) (184.1 ) (158.0 ) (266.2 ) (413.1 ) (115.9 ) Other (2.3 ) (3.7 ) (3.7 ) 16.3 (5.5 ) (16.4 ) Income (loss) before income taxes, equity in income (loss) of affiliates and minority interest (421.9 ) (79.6 ) (25.0 ) 538.5 (101.6 ) 34.5 Income taxes (expense)/benefit 144.7 31.8 19.8 (188.8 ) 29.7 (14.9 ) Income (loss) before equity in income (loss) of affiliates and minority interest (277.2 ) (47.8 ) (5.2 ) 349.7 (71.8 ) 19.6 Equity in income (loss) of affiliates 6.1 (2.7 ) (0.2 ) (0.0 ) 1.6 3.4 Minority interest in (net income) loss of subsidiaries 83.0 32.8 22.0 (173.0 ) 33.1 (11.5 ) Net income (loss) US$ (188.1 ) US$ (17.7 ) US$ 16.6 US$ 176.7 US$ (37.1 ) US$ 11.6 4 Table of Contents For Eleven Months Ended March 31, For Fiscal Year Ended April 30, 2009 (audited) 2008 (unaudited) 2008 2007 2006 2005 (in millions of US$) US$ .5 US$ .1 US$ .2 US$ .1 US$ .6 US$ .4 Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents US$ 508.8 US$ 103.1 US$ 68.4 US$ 316.5 US$ 29.2 US$ 13.2 Marketable securities – 975.4 1,014.5 281.9 368.8 2.0 Inventories 477.8 423.1 337.7 247.5 187.2 122.2 Property, plant, and equipment, net 2,271.8 1,764.6 2,108.1 1,194.1 1,008.1 401.8 Goodwill 888.8 574.2 772.6 491.9 497.9 166.6 Total assets 5,421.1 4,878.7 5,269.1 3,253.4 2,691.8 960.2 Current liabilities 1,164.7 299.6 359.1 274.2 397.1 207.8 Estimated liability for legal proceedings and labor claims 497.6 438.7 494.1 379.2 462.2 101.7 Long-term debt 1,251.1 1,234.8 1,249.3 1,342.5 941.7 314.7 Minority interest in consolidated subsidiaries 544.5 894.7 796.8 463.6 287.6 93.7 Total shareholders equity US$ 1,596.2 US$ 1,666.2 US$ 1,995.7 US$ 473.6 US$ 294.3 US$ 97.1 Other Financial and Operating Data: Depreciation and amortization US$ 290.7 US$ 216.8 US$ 236.1 US$ 187.4 US$ 98.6 US$ 41.7 Net debt(1) 1,420.7 80.0 90.8 697.9 517.4 287.0 Working capital(2) 362.8 1,661.0 1,503.8 865.3 563.2 84.7 Cash flow provided by (used in): Operating activities 256.6 (11.8 ) 57.6 284.0 86.0 7.6 Investing activities (787.8 ) (826.6 ) (1,441.7 ) (251.6 ) (825.5 ) (62.7 ) Financing activities US$ 871.9 US$ 595.1 US$ 1,023.3 US$ 222.8 US$ 725.9 US$ 433.6 Crushed sugarcane (in million tons) 43.1 – 40.3 36.2 27.9 24.3 Own sugarcane (in million tons) 22.7 – 22.3 21.6 17.2 15.0 Growers sugarcane (in million tons) 20.4 – 18.0 14.5 10.7 9.3 Sugar production (in thousand tons) 3,179.2 – 3,241.0 3,182.3 2,328.4 2,121.5 Ethanol production (in million liters) 1,688.4 – 1,524.6 1,236.6 915.0 741.3 Earnings per share (basic and diluted) US$ (0.76 ) US$ – US$ 0.09 US$ 1.83 US$ (0.35 ) US$ 0.10 Number of shares outstanding 270,687,385 – 226,242,856 96,332,044 96,332,044 96,332,044 Dividends paid – – – US$ 37.3 – US$ 0.6 (1) Net debt consists of current and non-current debt, net of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and CTNs (Brazilian Treasury bills) recorded in the financial statements as other non-current assets. Net debt is not a U.S. GAAP measure. (2) Working capital consists of current assets less current liabilities. Exchange Rates Until March 4, 2005, there were two legal foreign exchange markets in Brazil, the commercial rate exchange market, or “Commercial Market”, and the floating rate exchange market, or “Floating Market”. The Commercial Market was reserved primarily for foreign trade transactions and transactions that generally required prior approval from Brazilian monetary authorities, such as registered investments by foreign persons and related remittances of funds abroad (including the payment of principal and interest on loans, notes, bonds and other debt instruments denominated in foreign currencies and registered with the Brazilian Central Bank or the “Central Bank”). The Floating Market rate generally applied to specific transactions for which Central Bank approval was not required. Both the Commercial Market rate and the Floating Market rate were reported by the Central Bank on a daily basis. On March 4, 2005, the Central Bank issued Resolution No. 3,265, providing for several changes in Brazilian foreign exchange regulation, including: (1) the unification of the foreign exchange markets into a single exchange market; (2) the easing of several rules for acquisition of foreign currency by Brazilian residents; and (3) the extension of the term for converting foreign currency derived from Brazilian exports. It is expected that the Central Bank will issue further regulations in relation to foreign exchange transactions, as 5 Table of Contents well as on payments and transfers of Brazilian currency between Brazilian residents and non-residents (such transfers being commonly known as the “international transfers of reais”), including those made through the so-called non-resident accounts (also known as CC5 accounts). The Central Bank has allowed the real to float freely since January 15, 1999. Since the beginning of 2001, the Brazilian exchange market has been increasingly volatile, and, until early 2003, the value of the real declined relative to the U.S. dollar, primarily due to financial and political instability in Brazil and Argentina. According to the Central Bank, in 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, however, the real appreciated in relation to the U.S. dollar by 8.8%, 13.4%, 9.5% and 20.7%, respectively. In 2008, the real depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 24.2%. Although the Central Bank has intervened occasionally to control unstable movements in the foreign exchange rates, the exchange market may continue to be volatile as a result of this instability or other factors, and, therefore, the real may substantially decline or appreciate in value in relation to the U.S. dollar in the future. The following tables set forth the exchange rate, expressed in reais per U.S. dollar (R$/US$) for the periods indicated, as reported by the Central Bank. Period-end Average for Period Low High (reais per U.S. dollar) Fiscal Year Ended: April 30, 2005 R$ 2.5313 R$ 2.8450 R$ 2.5195 R$ 3.2051 April 30, 2006 2.0892 2.2841 2.0892 2.5146 April 30, 2007 2.0339 2.1468 2.0231 2.3711 April 30, 2008 1.6872 1.8283 1.6575 2.1124 March 31, 2009 2.3152 2.0047 1.5593 2.5004 Month Ended: April 2009 2.1783 2.2019 2.1699 2.2899 May 2009 1.9730 2.0664 1.9730 2.1783 June 2009 1.9516 1.9540 1.9301 2.0074 July 2009 1.8726 1.9364 1.8726 2.0147 August 2009 1.8864 1.8452 1.8181 1.8864 September 2009 (through September 25, 2009) 1.8017 1.8252 1.7916 1.9038 Source: Central Bank. Exchange rate fluctuation will affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of the market price of our BDRs on BM&FBOVESPA, as well as the U.S. dollar value of any distributions we receive from our subsidiary Cosan, which will be made in reais. See “Item 3D. Risk Factors – Risks Related to Brazil”. 6 Table of Contents B. Capitalization and Indebtedness Not applicable. C. Reasons for the Offer and Use of Proceeds Not applicable. D. Risk Factors This section is intended to be a summary of more detailed discussion contained elsewhere in this transition report. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our financial condition and business operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Industries We operate in industries in which the demand and the market price for our products are cyclical and are affected by general economic conditions in Brazil and the world. The ethanol and sugar industries, both globally and in Brazil, have historically been cyclical and sensitive to domestic and international changes in supply and demand. Ethanol is marketed as a fuel additive to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline, as an enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended or as a substitute fuel for gasoline. As a result, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply and demand for gasoline, and our business and financial performance may be materially adversely affected if gasoline demand or price decreases. The increase in the production and sale of flex fuel cars has resulted, in part, from lower taxation, since 2002, of such vehicles compared to gasoline only cars. This favorable tax treatment may be eliminated and the production of flex fuel cars may decrease, which could adversely affect demand for ethanol. Historically, the international sugar market has experienced periods of limited supply—causing sugar prices and industry profit margins to increase—followed by an expansion in the industry that results in oversupply—causing declines in sugar prices and industry profit margins. In addition, fluctuations in prices for ethanol or sugar may occur, for various other reasons, including factors beyond our control, such as: · fluctuations in gasoline prices; · variances in the production capacities of our competitors; and · the availability of substitute goods for the ethanol and sugar products we produce. The prices we are able to obtain for sugar depends, in large part, on prevailing market prices. These market conditions, both in Brazil and internationally, are beyond our control. The wholesale price of sugar has a significant impact on our profits. Like other agricultural commodities, sugar is subject to price fluctuations resulting from weather, natural disasters, harvest levels, agricultural investments, government policies and programs for the agricultural sector, domestic and foreign trade policies, shifts in supply and demand, increasing purchasing power, global production of similar or competing products, and other factors beyond our control. In addition, a significant portion of the total worldwide sugar production is traded on exchanges and thus is subject to speculation, which could affect the price of sugar and our results of operations. The price of sugar, in particular, is also affected by producers’ compliance with sugar export requirements and the resulting effects on domestic supply. As a consequence, sugar prices have been subject to higher historical volatility when compared to many other commodities. Competition from alternative sweeteners, including saccharine and high fructose corn syrup, known as “HFCS”, changes in Brazilian or international agricultural or trade policies or developments relating to international trade, including those under the World Trade Organization, or “WTO”, are factors that can directly or indirectly result in lower domestic or global sugar 7 Table of Contents prices. Any prolonged or significant decrease in sugar prices could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. If we are unable to maintain sales at generally prevailing market prices for ethanol and sugar in Brazil, or if we are unable to export sufficient quantities of ethanol and sugar to assure an appropriate domestic market balance, our ethanol and sugar business may be adversely affected. Sugar prices started to increase during 2009, reflecting the deficit in global sugar production principally due to the drop in production in India, a large exporter of sugar that became a large importer. Sugar prices in the current fiscal year reached the highest levels in nearly 30 years. Sugar prices may also be influenced by the Brazilian crop this year, which may suffer from a reduction in the sugarcane harvested and its quality, due to unusual rainfalls in periods of historical high yields. The expected benefits of the integration of CCL within the Cosan group may not be realized, in the timeframe anticipated or at all, because of integration or other challenges. We acquired CCL (formerly Essobras) on December 1, 2008. Achieving the expected cost benefits of the acquisition, including the amortization of goodwill associated with the anticipated merger of CCL with one of our subsidiaries, Cosanpar, will depend on the timely and efficient integration of our operations, business culture, technology and personnel within the Cosan Group. In addition, the benefits of our integration may be offset by changes in industry conditions, market demand, or other factors. Our management team has spent a considerable amount of time, and will continue to devote a considerable amount of time, to the integration process, diverting management attention from our business. The challenges involved in the integration include, among others: · hiring additional management and other critical personnel; · conforming our processes to align with the Cosan Group; · integrating business cultures; and · potential loss of key employees. We cannot assure you that the integration will be successful and cannot predict its effects on our business. Ethanol prices are directly correlated to the price of sugar and are becoming closely correlated to the price of oil, so that a decline in the price of sugar will adversely affect both our ethanol and sugar businesses and a decline in the price of oil may adversely affect our ethanol business. The price of ethanol generally is closely associated with the price of sugar and is increasingly becoming correlated to the price of oil. A vast majority of ethanol in Brazil is produced at sugarcane mills that produce both ethanol and sugar. Because sugarcane millers are able to alter their product mix in response to the relative prices of ethanol and sugar, this results in the prices of both products being directly correlated, and the correlation between ethanol and sugar may increase over time. In addition, sugar prices in Brazil are determined by prices in the world market, so that there is a strong correlation between Brazilian ethanol prices and world sugar prices. Because flex fuel vehicles allow consumers to choose between gasoline and ethanol at the pump rather than at the showroom, ethanol prices are now becoming increasingly correlated to gasoline prices and, consequently, oil prices. We believe that the correlation among the three products will increase over time. Accordingly, a decline in sugar prices will have an adverse effect on the financial performance of our ethanol and sugar businesses, and a decline in oil prices may have an adverse effect on that of our ethanol business. 8 Table of Contents We may not successfully acquire or develop additional production capacity through greenfield projects or expansion of existing facilities. We are currently building an ethanol plant in the State of Goiás, the Jataí mill, which is expected to be completed during the second quarter of fiscal year 2010 and will be able to crush approximately 4 million tons when operating at full capacity by 2013. The Jataí mill is part of our project to build three ethanol greenfield mills in the State of Goiás. We plan to invest in the construction of the two other mills. However, the investments are currently on hold and may be cancelled. We are also building another greenfield project called Carapó, which we acquired as part of Nova América acquisition. The completion of Carapó project construction is also expected to occur during the current fiscal year. We expect to explore other greenfield projects in the future. Except for the ethanol greenfield project in the State of Goiás, we do not have environmental or other permits, designs or engineering, procurement and construction contracts with respect to any potential projects. As a result, we may not complete these greenfield projects on a timely basis or at all, and may not realize the related benefits we anticipate. In addition, we may be unable to obtain the required financing for these projects on satisfactory terms, or at all. For example, we may not be able to obtain all of the land for which we have obtained options in the State of Goiás or we may not have the appropriate personnel, equipment and know-how to implement projects. In particular, we have no significant prior experience in planning, developing and managing large-scale greenfield projects. The integration of greenfield projects or expansion of our existing facilities may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be used for the development and ongoing expansion of our existing operations. Planned or future greenfield projects or expansion of existing facilities may not enhance our financial performance. We may not successfully implement our plans to sell energy from our cogeneration projects, and the Brazilian government’s regulation of the energy sector may affect our business and financial performance. Our current total installed energy cogeneration capacity is approximately 294.3 MW, a substantial majority of which is used to generate energy for our own industrial operations. We have already won bids in seven government energy auctions and entered into four bilateral contracts to sell, for the next 15 years, approximately 2,696 GWh/year to the Brazilian electricity grid. We believe that five of our mills will start to deliver energy to the electricity grid this year. We have no significant prior experience in planning, developing and managing large-scale energy cogeneration projects. We may need to invest significant amounts to overcome any operating difficulties. In addition, the Brazilian government regulates the energy sector extensively. We may not be able to satisfy all the requirements necessary to acquire new contracts or to otherwise comply with Brazilian energy regulation. Changes to the current energy regulation or federal authorization programs, and the creation for more stringent criteria for qualification in future public energy auctions, may adversely affect the implementation of this element of our business strategy. We may engage in hedging transactions, which involve risks that can harm our financial performance. We are exposed to market risks arising from the conduct of our business activities—in particular, market risks arising from changes in commodity prices, exchange rates or interest rates. In an attempt to minimize the effects of volatility of sugar prices and exchange rates on our cash flows and results of operations, we engage in hedging transactions involving commodities and exchange rate futures, options, forwards and swaps. We also engage in interest rate-related hedging transactions from time to time. Hedging transactions expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price of commodities or exchange rate. In fiscal year 2006, we experienced losses of US$209.4 million from sugar price and exchange rate hedging transactions. In fiscal year 2007 and fiscal year 2008, we experienced gains of US$190.6 million and US$49.3 million, respectively, from sugar price and exchange rate hedging transactions. In fiscal year 2009, we experienced gains of US$22.9 million. We may incur 9 Table of Contents significant hedging-related losses in the future. We hedge against market price fluctuations by fixing the prices of our sugar export volumes. Since we record derivatives at fair value, to the extent that the market prices of our products exceed the fixed price under our hedging policy, our results will be lower than they would have been if we had not engaged in such transactions as a result of the related non-cash derivative expenses. As a result, our financial performance would be adversely affected during periods in which commodities prices increase. Alternatively, we may choose not to engage in hedging transactions in the future, which could adversely affect our financial performance during periods in which commodities prices decrease. We face significant competition, which may adversely affect our market share and profitability. The ethanol and sugar industries are highly competitive. Internationally, we compete with global ethanol and sugar producers such as Poet, Inc., Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, Cargill, Inc. and A.E. Staley Manufacturing Company (a subsidiary of Tate & Lyle, PLC). Some of our competitors are divisions of larger enterprises and have greater financial resources than our company. In Brazil, we compete with numerous small to medium-size producers. Despite increased consolidation, the Brazilian ethanol and sugar industries remain highly fragmented. Our major competitors in Brazil are Santelisa Vale (the second largest ethanol and sugar producer in Brazil), Group Louis Dreyfus (the third largest ethanol and sugar producer in Brazil), Grupo Carlos Lyra, Grupo São Martinho, Grupo Tercio Wanderley, Grupo Guarani, Grupo Zilor, Grupo Oscar Figueiredo, Grupo Santa Terezinha, Grupo Da Pedra, and Grupo Irmãos Biagi and other ethanol and sugar producers in Brazil market their ethanol and sugar products through the Cooperative of Sugarcane, Sugar and Ethanol Producers of the State of São Paulo (Cooperativa de Produtores de Cana-de-açúcar, Açúcar e Álcool do Estado de São Paulo), or “Copersucar”. During the 2008/2009 harvest, Copersucar had 33 members that produce ethanol and sugar in the states of São Paulo, Minas Gerais and Paraná. We are not a member of Copersucar. We face strong competition from international producers – in particular, in highly regulated and protected markets, such as the United States and the European Union. Historically, imports of sugar have not provided substantial competition for us in Brazil due to, among other factors, the production and logistical cost-competitiveness of sugar produced in Brazil. If the Brazilian government creates incentives for sugar imports, we could face increased competition in the Brazilian market by foreign producers. Many factors influence our competitive position, including the availability, quality and cost of fertilizer, energy, water, chemical products and labor. Some of our international competitors have greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases and broader product ranges than we do. If we are unable to remain competitive with these producers in the future, our market share may be adversely affected. The fuel distribution and lubricant market in Brazil is highly competitive. We compete with domestic fuel distributors who purchase substantially all of their fuels from Petrobras. There are very few domestic competitors, like us, who import certain products into Brazil. In addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and retail consumers. Certain of our competitors, such as Petrobras, have larger fuel distribution networks and vertically integrated oil refineries, and may be able to realize lower per-barrel costs or higher margins per barrel of throughput. Our principal competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. Because of their integrated operations and larger capitalization, these companies may be more flexible in responding to volatile industry or market conditions, such as shortages of crude oil and other feedstocks or intense price fluctuations. The actions of our competitors could lead to lower prices or reduced margins for the products we sell, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Anticompetitive practices in the fuel and lubricants distribution market may distort market prices. In the last few years, anticompetitive practices have been one of the main problems affecting fuel distributors in Brazil. Generally these practices have involved a combination of tax evasion and fuel adulteration, such as the dilution of gasoline by mixing solvents or adding anhydrous ethanol in an amount greater than the 25% permitted by applicable law (the overall taxation of anhydrous ethanol is lower than 10 Table of Contents hydrated ethanol and gasoline). Taxes constitute a significant portion of the cost of fuels sold in Brazil. For this reason, tax evasion on the part of some fuel distributors has been prevalent, allowing them to lower the prices they charge. These practices have enabled certain distributors to supply large quantities of fuel products at prices lower than those offered by the major distributors, including us, which has resulted in a considerable increase in the sales volumes of the distributors who have adopted these practices. The final prices for fuels are calculated based on the taxes levied on their purchase and sale, among others factors. As a result, anticompetitive practices as such tax evasion may affect our sales volume, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. If such practices become more prevalent, it could lead to lower prices or reduced margins for the products we sell, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Petrobras is our principal supplier of our base oils and of our fuel distribution business unit. Significant disruption to our fuels and lubricant sales may occur, in the event of an interruption of supply from Petrobras. Any interruption would immediately affect our ability to provide fuel and lubricant products to our customers. If we are not able to obtain an adequate supply of fuel and base oil products from Petrobras under acceptable terms, we may seek to meet our demands through purchases on the international market. The cost of fuel and base oil products on the international market may be more expensive than the price we obtain through Petrobras. We may face significant challenges in implementing our expansion strategy in other regions of Brazil and international markets. Our growth strategy includes the expansion of our activities in other regions of Brazil and international markets, through organic growth and acquisitions. Our expansion to regions of Brazil in which we do not now operate may involve potential challenges, such as inadequate transportation systems and different state and local laws, regulations and policies. For example, we may not be able to secure an adequate supply of sugarcane either from suppliers or through our own cultivation in sufficient proximity to our mills to be economically viable in terms of transportation costs. We are currently looking at opportunities worldwide, but have not yet identified any particular investment locations outside of Brazil. Our international expansion, to countries in which we do not now operate includes additional challenges, such as the following: · changes in economic, political or regulatory conditions; · difficulties in managing geographically diverse operations; · changes in business regulation, including policies governing ethanol technological standards; · effects of foreign currency movements; · difficulties in enforcing contracts; and · cultural and language barriers. If we fail to address one or more of these challenges, our business and financial performance may be materially adversely affected. Our export sales are subject to a broad range of risks associated with international operations. In transition fiscal year 2009, our net sales from exports were US$929.2 million, representing 31.8% of our total net sales. During this same period, our net sales from sugar exports were US$733.4 million, representing 25.1% of our total net sales, and our net sales from exports of ethanol were US$187.2 million, representing 6.4% of our total net sales. 11 Table of Contents In fiscal year ended April 30, 2008, our net sales from exports were US$823.2 million, representing 55.2% of our total net sales. During this same period, our net sales from sugar exports were US$649.8 million, representing 43.6% of our total net sales, and our net sales from exports of ethanol were US$166.1 million, representing 11.1% of our total net sales. Our net sales from exports in fiscal year ended April 30, 2007 totaled US$1,014.8 million, representing 60.4% of our total net sales. In fiscal year 2007, we had export net sales of sugar of US$873.0 million, representing 52.0% of our total net sales, and we had export net sales of ethanol of US$138.3 million, representing 8.2% of our total net sales. We expect to expand our ethanol exports in the future. Expansion of ethanol exports depends on factors beyond our control, including liberalization of existing trade barriers and the establishment of distribution systems for hydrous ethanol in countries outside of Brazil. Our future financial performance will depend, to a significant extent, on economic, political and social conditions in our main export markets. Most ethanol and/or sugar producing countries, including the United States and member countries of the European Union, protect local producers from foreign competition by establishing government policies and regulations that affect ethanol and sugar production, including quotas, import and export restrictions, subsidies, tariffs and duties. As a result of these policies, domestic ethanol and sugar prices vary greatly in individual countries. We have limited or no access to these large markets as a result of trade barriers. If these protectionist policies continue, we may not be able to expand our export activities at the rate we currently expect, or at all, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Also, if new trade barriers are established in our key export markets, we may face difficulties in reallocating our products to other markets on favorable terms, and our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. We may not be able to maintain rights to use blending formulas and brands supplied by ExxonMobil. We, through our subsidiary CCL, are the exclusive manufacturer and distributor of lubricants products in Brazil based on formulas provided to us under a license from ExxonMobil under the Master Lubricants Agreement, which expires on December 1, 2018. We have also been granted a license to use the ExxonMobil brand to market fuels under the Fuels Trademark License Agreement, which expires on December 1, 2013. The termination of any of these licenses, or the failure by ExxonMobil to adequately maintain and protect its intellectual property rights, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or could require significant unplanned investments by us if we are forced to develop or acquire alternative technology. In the future, it may be necessary or desirable to obtain other third-party technology licenses relating to one or more of our products or relating to current or future technologies to enhance our product offerings. However, we may not be able to obtain licensing rights to the needed technology or components on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The expansion of our business through acquisitions and strategic alliances creates risks that may reduce the benefits we anticipate from these transactions. We have grown substantially through acquisitions. We plan to continue to acquire, from time to time, other ethanol or sugar producers or facilities in Brazil or elsewhere that complement or expand our sugar and ethanol existing operations. Moreover, we plan to acquire and build, from time to time, fuel terminals, lubricant production assets, retail distribution stations and other assets that complement and expand our fuel and lubricants existing operations and also intend to expand our network of service stations through increased branding. We also may enter into strategic alliances to increase our competitiveness. However, our management is unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisitions or strategic alliances will occur, or the likelihood of any particular transaction being completed on favorable terms and conditions. Our ability to continue to expand our business through acquisitions or alliances depends on many factors, including our ability to identify acquisitions or access capital markets on acceptable terms. Even if we are able to identify acquisition targets and obtain the necessary financing to make these acquisitions, we could financially overextend ourselves, especially if an acquisition is followed by a period of lower than projected ethanol and sugar prices. 12 Table of Contents Acquisitions, especially involving sizeable enterprises, may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing business and difficulties in integrating operations and personnel. Any failure by us to integrate new businesses or manage any new alliances successfully could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Some of our major competitors may be pursuing growth through acquisitions and alliances, which may reduce the likelihood that we will be successful in completing acquisitions and alliances. In addition, any major acquisition we consider may be subject to antitrust and other regulatory approvals. We may not be successful in obtaining required approvals on a timely basis or at all. Acquisitions also pose the risk that we may be exposed to successor liability relating to prior actions involving an acquired company, or contingent liabilities incurred before the acquisition. Due diligence conducted in connection with an acquisition, and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from sellers of acquired companies, may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. A material liability associated with an acquisition, such as labor- or environmental-related liabilities, could adversely affect our reputation and financial performance and reduce the benefits of the acquisition. A reduction in market demand for ethanol or a change in governmental policies that ethanol be added to gasoline may materially adversely affect our business. Governmental authorities of several countries, including Brazil and certain states of the United States, currently require the use of ethanol as an additive to gasoline. Since 1997, the Brazilian Sugar and Alcohol Interministerial Council (Conselho Interministerial do Açúcar e Álcool) has set the percentage of anhydrous ethanol that must be used as an additive to gasoline (currently, at 25% by volume). Approximately one-half of all fuel ethanol in Brazil is used to fuel automobiles that run on a blend of anhydrous ethanol and gasoline; the remainder is used in either flex fuel vehicles or vehicles powered by hydrous ethanol alone. Five districts in China require the addition of 10% ethanol to gasoline. Japan is discussing the requirement the addition of 3% of ethanol to gasoline, increasing such requirement to 20% in 2030 and nine states and four union territories in India require the addition of 5% of ethanol to gasoline. Other countries have similar governmental policies requiring various blends of anhydrous ethanol and gasoline. In addition, flex fuel vehicles in Brazil are currently taxed at lower levels than gasoline-only vehicles, which has contributed to the increase in the production and sale of flex fuel vehicles. Any reduction in the percentage of ethanol required to be added to gasoline or increase in the levels at which flex fuel vehicles are taxed in Brazil, as well as growth in the demand for natural gas and other fuels as an alternative to ethanol, lower gasoline prices or an increase in gasoline consumption (versus ethanol), may cause demand for ethanol to decline and affect our business. In addition, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply and demand for gasoline; therefore, a reduction in oil prices resulting in a decrease in gasoline prices and an increase in gasoline consumption (versus ethanol), may have a material and adverse effect in our business. Government policies and regulations affecting the agricultural and fuel sectors and related industries could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Agricultural production and trade flows are significantly affected by Brazilian federal, state and local, as well as foreign, government policies and regulations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, may influence industry profitability, the planting of certain crops versus others, the uses of agricultural resources, the location and size of crop production, the trading levels for unprocessed versus processed commodities, and the volume and types of imports and exports. Future government policies in Brazil and elsewhere may adversely affect the supply, and demand for, and prices of, our products or restrict our ability to do business in our existing and target markets, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Sugar prices, like the prices of many other staple goods in Brazil, were historically subject to controls imposed by the Brazilian government. Sugar prices in Brazil have not been subject to price controls since 1997. However, additional measures may be imposed in the future. In addition, our operations are currently concentrated in the State of São Paulo. Any changes affecting 13 Table of Contents governmental policies and regulations regarding ethanol, sugar or sugarcane in the State of São Paulo may adversely affect our company. In addition, petroleum and petroleum products have historically been subject of price controls in Brazil. Currently there is no legislation or regulation in force giving the Brazilian government power to set prices for petroleum, petroleum products, ethanol or NGV. However, given that Petrobras, the only supplier of oil-based fuels in Brazil, is a state-controlled company, prices of petroleum and petroleum products are subject to government influence, resulting in potential inconsistencies between international prices and internal oil derivative prices that affect our business and our financials results, which are not linked to international prices. We may not be successful in reducing operating costs and increasing operating efficiencies. As part of our strategy, we continue to seek to reduce operating costs and increase operating efficiencies to improve our future financial performance. For example, we are purchasing new harvesters and increasing the outsourcing of the mechanical harvesting with the goal of having, by fiscal year 2012, approximately 80% of our sugarcane harvested mechanically. We may not be able to achieve the cost savings that we expect to realize from this and other initiatives. Any failure to realize anticipated cost savings may adversely affect our competitiveness and financial performance. We incur substantial costs to comply with environmental regulations and may be exposed to liabilities in the event we fail to comply with these regulations or as a result of our handling of hazardous materials. We are subject to various Brazilian federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other matters: · the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of hazardous materials; · the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air or water; and · the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain aspects of our operations. These laws, regulations and permits often require us to purchase and install expensive pollution control equipment or to make operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts on the environment and/or health of our employees. Currently, we do not anticipate any material claims or liabilities resulting from a failure to comply with these laws and regulations. However, any violations of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, revocations of operating permits and/or shutdowns of our facilities. Due to the possibility of changes to environmental regulations and other unanticipated developments, the amount and timing of future environmental expenditures may vary substantially from those currently anticipated. Under Brazilian environmental laws, we could be held strictly liable for all of the costs relating to any contamination at our or our predecessors’ current and former facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites used by us or any of our predecessors. We could also be held responsible for any and all consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances, such as pesticides and herbicides, or other environmental damage. We are party to a number of administrative and judicial proceedings for alleged failures to comply with environmental laws which may result in fines, shutdowns, or other adverse effects on our operations. We have not recorded any provisions or reserves for these proceedings as we do not currently believe that they will result in liabilities material to our business or financial performance. Our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances could adversely affect our business or financial performance. 14 Table of Contents Government laws and regulations governing the burning of sugarcane could have a material adverse impact on our business or financial performance. Approximately 40% of our sugarcane is currently harvested by burning the crop, which removes leaves and destroys insects and other pests. The State of São Paulo and some local governments have established laws and regulations that limit our ability to burn sugarcane or that reduce and/or entirely prohibit the burning of sugarcane. We currently incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations, and there is a likelihood that increasingly stringent regulations relating to the burning of sugarcane will be imposed by the State of São Paulo and other governmental agencies in the near future. As a result, the costs to comply with existing or new laws or regulations are likely to increase, and, as a result, our ability to operate our own plants and harvest our sugarcane crops may be adversely affected. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations may subject us to legal and administrative actions. These actions can result in civil or criminal penalties, including a requirement to pay penalties or fines, which may range from R$50.00 to R$50.0 million (US$21.60 to US$21.6 million) and can be doubled or tripled in case of recidivism, an obligation to make capital and other expenditures or an obligation to materially change or cease some operations. Adverse weather conditions may reduce the volume and sucrose content of sugarcane that we can cultivate and purchase in a given harvest, and we are affected by seasonality of the sugarcane growing cycle. Our sugar production depends on the volume and sucrose content of the sugarcane that we cultivate or that is supplied to us by growers located in the vicinity of our mills. Crop yields and sucrose content depend primarily on weather conditions such as rainfall and temperature, which vary. Weather conditions have historically caused volatility in the ethanol and sugar industries and, consequently, in our results of operations by causing crop failures or reduced harvests. Flood, drought or frost can adversely affect the supply and pricing of the agricultural commodities that we sell and use in our business. Future weather patterns may reduce the amount of sugar or sugarcane that we can recover in a given harvest or its sucrose content. In addition, our business is subject to seasonal trends based on the sugarcane growing cycle in the Center-South region of Brazil. The annual sugarcane harvesting period in the Center-South region of Brazil begins in April/May and ends in November/December. This creates fluctuations in our inventory, usually peaking in November to cover sales between crop harvests (i.e., December through April), and a degree of seasonality in our gross profit, with ethanol and sugar sales significantly lower in the last quarter of the fiscal year. Seasonality and any reduction in the volumes of sugar recovered could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We may be adversely affected by a shortage of sugarcane or by high sugarcane costs. Sugarcane is our principal raw material used for the production of ethanol and sugar. In transition fiscal year 2009, sugarcane purchased from suppliers accounted for 30% of our consolidated costs of goods sold and operating expenses. We purchase 40% of the sugarcane that we use in our production of ethanol and sugar directly from thousands of third-party sugarcane growers. Historically, approximately 80% of the sugarcane purchased by us has been under medium- and long-term contracts with sugarcane growers, 5% on a spot basis and the remaining 15% from sugarcane growers with whom we have long-term relationships but no contractual arrangements. We generally enter into medium- and long-term supply contracts for periods varying from three and one-half to seven years. As of March 31, 2009, we also leased approximately 355,165 hectares under approximately 1,861 land lease contracts with an average term of five years. Any shortage in sugarcane supply or increase in sugarcane prices in the near future, including as a result of the termination of supply contracts or lease agreements representing a material reduction in the sugarcane available to us for processing or increase in sugarcane prices may adversely affect our business and financial performance. 15 Table of Contents We are exposed to the credit and other counterparty risk of our customers in the ordinary course of our business. We have various credit terms with virtually all of our wholesale and retail industrial customers, and our customers have varying degrees of creditworthiness which exposes us to the risk of nonpayment or other default under our contracts and other arrangements with them. In the event that a significant number of material customers default on their payment obligations to us, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, could be materially and adversely affected. Our business would be materially adversely affected if operations at our transportation, terminal and storage and distribution facilities experienced significant interruptions. Our business would also be materially adversely affected if the operations of our customers and suppliers experienced significant interruptions. Our operations are dependent upon the uninterrupted operation of our terminal and storage facilities and various means of transportation. We are also dependent upon the uninterrupted operation of certain facilities owned or operated by our suppliers and customers. Operations at our facilities and at the facilities owned or operated by our suppliers and customers could be partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of any number of circumstances that are not within our control, such as: · catastrophic events, including hurricanes; · environmental remediation; · labor difficulties; and · disruptions in the supply of our products to our facilities or means of transportation. Any significant interruption at these facilities or inability to transport products to or from these facilities or to or from our customers for any reason would materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Fire and other disasters could affect our agricultural and manufacturing properties, which would adversely affect our production volumes and, consequently, financial performance. Our operations will be subject to risks affecting our agricultural properties and facilities, including fire potentially destroying some or our entire yield and facilities. In addition, our operations are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture of inflammable products and transportation of feed stocks and inflammable products. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to provide full protection against these types of casualties. Our Da Barra mill was responsible for approximately 15% of our total sugar production in the 2008/2009 harvest. Any material damage to our Da Barra mill would adversely affect our production volumes and, consequently, our financial performance. Disease and pestilence may strike our crops which may result in destruction of a significant portion of our harvest. Crop disease and pestilence can occur from time to time and have a devastating effect on our crops, potentially rendering useless or unusable all or a substantial portion of affected harvests. Even when only a portion of the crop is damaged, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected because we may have incurred a substantial portion of the production cost for the related harvest. The cost of treatment of crop disease tends to be high. Any serious incidents of crop disease or pestilence, and related costs, may adversely affect our production levels and, as a result, our net sales and overall financial performance. 16 Table of Contents Disruption of transportation and logistics services or insufficient investment in public infrastructure could adversely affect our operating results. One of the principal disadvantages of Brazilian agriculture sector is that key growing regions lie far from major ports. As a result, efficient access to transportation infrastructure and ports is critical to the growth of Brazilian agriculture as a whole and of our operations in particular. As part of our business strategy, we intend to invest in areas where existing transportation infrastructure is under developed. Improvements in transportation infrastructure are likely to be required to make more agricultural production accessible to export terminals at competitive prices. A substantial portion of Brazilian agricultural production is currently transported by truck, a means of transportation significantly more expensive than the rail transportation available to U.S. and other international producers. Our dependence on truck transport may affect our position as low-cost producer, so that our ability to compete in world markets may be impaired. Even though road and rail improvement projects have been considered for some areas of Brazil, and in some cases implemented, substantial investments are required for road and rail improvement projects, which may not be completed on a timely basis – if at all. Any delay or failure in developing infrastructure systems could hurt the demand for our products, impede our delivery of products or impose additional costs on us. We currently outsource the transportation and logistics services necessary to operate our business. Any disruption in these services could result in supply problems at our processing plants and impair our ability to deliver processed products to our customers in a timely manner. In addition, a natural disaster or other catastrophic event could result in disruption in regional transportation infrastructure systems affecting our third-party transportation providers. We depend on third parties to provide our customers and us with facilities and services that are integral to our business. We have entered into agreements with third-party contractors to provide facilities and services required for our operations, such as the transportation and storage of ethanol and sugar. The loss or expiration of our agreements with third-party contractors or our inability to renew these agreements or to negotiate new agreements with other providers at comparable rates could harm our business and financial performance. Our reliance on third parties to provide essential services on our behalf also gives us less control over the costs, efficiency, timeliness and quality of those services. Contractors’ negligence could compromise the safety of the transportation of ethanol from our production facilities to our export facilities. We expect to be dependent on such agreements for the foreseeable future, and if we enter any new market, we will need to have similar agreements in place. Technological advances could affect demand for our products or require substantial capital expenditures for us to remain competitive. The development and implementation of new technologies may result in a significant reduction in the costs of ethanol production. We cannot predict when new technologies may become available, the rate of acceptance of new technologies by our competitors or the costs associated with such new technologies. Advances in the development of alternatives to ethanol also could significantly reduce demand or eliminate the need for ethanol as a fuel oxygenate. Any advances in technology which require significant capital expenditures to remain competitive or which otherwise reduce demand for ethanol will have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Alternative sweeteners have negatively affected demand for our sugar products in Brazil and other countries. We believe that the use of alternative sweeteners, especially artificial alternative sweeteners such as aspartame, saccharine and HFCS, has adversely affected the growth of the overall demand for sugar in Brazil and the rest of the world. Soft drink bottlers in many countries have switched from sugar to, or increased consumption of, alternative sweeteners. In addition, the use of alternative sweeteners by sugar consumers, including soft drink bottlers, may also reduce the demand for sugar in Brazil. A substantial decrease in sugar 17 Table of Contents consumption, or the increased use of alternative or artificial sweeteners, would decrease demand for our sugar products and could result in lower growth in our net sales and overall financial performance. Our sugar and ethanol products are sold to a small number of customers which may be able to exercise significant bargaining power concerning pricing and other sale terms. A substantial portion of our sugar and ethanol production is sold to a small number of customers that acquire large portions of our production and thus may be able to exercise significant bargaining power concerning pricing and other sale terms. In the transition fiscal year 2009, five of our customers accounted for 66.8% of our net sales of sugar. In the same fiscal year, five of our customers accounted for 60.5% of our net sales of ethanol. In addition, intensive competition in the ethanol and sugar industries further increases the bargaining power of our customers. Our subsidiary’s port concession is subject to termination by the granting authority. We own and operate a sugar-loading terminal at the Port of Santos in the State of São Paulo through our subsidiary Rumo Logística S.A., or “Rumo”. This port terminal is a result of the association of two previous terminals, Cosan Operadora Portuária S.A., or “Cosan Portuária”, and Teaçu Armazéns Gerais S.A., or “Teaçu” (previously owned by Nova América). The close proximity of our mills to the port enables us to benefit from lower transportation costs. Pursuant to the port concession agreement with the State of São Paulo’s Port Authority (Companhia de Docas do Estado de São Paulo – CODESP), or “CODESP”, Cosan Portuária’s concession to operate this terminal will expire on 2016, and it may be renewed for an additional 20 years if Cosan Portuária meets its obligations under the port concession agreement. We are already discussing with the CODESP the renewal of this concession, but we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to renew the concession at all or on favorable terms. The South Terminal concession (formerly Teaçu) was initially scheduled to in 2016, but has been extended until 2036. All port concessions may be unilaterally terminated by the granting authority prior to that time upon: · expropriation of the port concession in the public interest; · default by Rumo in the performance of its obligations under the port concession agreement, including the payment of concession fees or failure to comply with other legal and regulatory obligations; · Rumo’s failure to comply with determinations by the granting authority; or · bankruptcy or dissolution of Rumo. Termination of the port concession agreement may adversely impact our transportation costs and the turn-around time for the export of our products as well as our revenues from service agreements related to our port facilities. We may be adversely affected by unfavorable outcomes in pending legal proceedings. We are involved in a significant number of tax, civil and labor proceedings, which we estimate involve claims against us aggregating US$1,493.8 million, and as to which, at March 31, 2009, we recorded a provision totaling US$423.7 million, net of judicial deposits in an aggregate amount of US$74.0 million. We cannot predict whether we will prevail in these or other proceedings, or whether we will have to pay significant amounts, including penalties and interest, as payment for our liabilities, which would materially and adversely impact our business and financial performance. Funding, especially on terms acceptable to us, may not be available to meet our future capital needs. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disruptive and volatile. The debt capital markets have been impacted by significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the re-pricing of credit risk, among other things. These events have negatively affected general economic conditions. In 18 Table of Contents particular, the cost of raising money in the debt capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, meeting our capital needs or otherwise taking advantage of business opportunities or responding to competitive pressures may become challenging, which could have a material and adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. The production of lubricants and the storage and transportation of fuel products, lubricant products are inherently hazardous. The complex manufacturing operations we perform at our Lubricants Oil Blending Plant, or LOBP, involve a variety of safety and other operating risks, including the handling, production, storage and transportation of toxic materials. These risks could result in personal injury and death, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage. A material accident at one of our plants, service stations or storage facilities could force us to suspend our operations and result in significant remediation costs and lost revenue. In addition, insurance proceeds, if available, may not be received on a timely basis and may be insufficient to cover all losses, including lost profit. Equipment breakdowns, natural disasters, and delays in obtaining supplies or required replacement parts or equipment could also materially adversely affect our manufacturing operations and consequently our results of operations. We are not insured against business interruption for our Brazilian operations and most of our assets are not insured against war or sabotage. In addition, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses and/or liabilities that may be incurred in our operations. We do not maintain coverage for business interruptions of any nature for our Brazilian operations, including business interruptions caused by labor disruptions. If, for instance, our workers were to strike, the resulting work stoppages could have a material and adverse effect on us. In addition, we do not insure most of our assets against war or sabotage. Therefore, an attack or an operational incident causing an interruption of our business could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our operations are subject to a number of hazards and risks. We maintain insurance at levels that are customary in our industry to protect against these liabilities; however, our insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities that might be incurred in our operations. Moreover, we will be subject to the risk that we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount desired at reasonable rates. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent on our chief executive officer and other members of our management to develop and implement our strategy and to oversee our operations. We are dependent upon Mr. Rubens Ometto Silveira Mello, our chairman and chief executive officer, other members of senior management and certain members of our board of directors, especially with respect to business planning, strategy and operations. If any of these key members of our management leaves our company, our business and financial performance may be negatively affected. Our business is particularly dependent on Mr. Rubens Ometto Silveira Mello, who is also our controlling shareholder. We currently do not carry any key man insurance. We are indirectly controlled by a single individual who has the power to control us and all of our subsidiaries. Mr. Rubens Ometto Silveira Mello, our controlling shareholder, chairman and chief executive officer, has the power to indirectly control us, including the power to: 19 Table of Contents · elect a majority of our directors and appoint our executive officers, set our management policies and exercise overall control over our company and subsidiaries; · agree to sell or otherwise transfer his controlling stake in our company; and · determine the outcome of substantially all actions requiring shareholder approval, including transactions with related parties, corporate reorganizations, acquisitions and dispositions of assets, and dividends. Our class B common shares have ten votes per share and our class A common shares have one vote per share. Currently, because of our share capital structure, our controlling shareholder is able to control substantially all matters submitted to our shareholders for a vote or approval even if the controlling shareholder comes to own less than 50% of the issued and outstanding share capital in the company. The concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our shareholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our class A common shares could be adversely affected. We may face conflicts of interest in transactions with related parties. We engage in business and financial transactions with our controlling shareholder and other shareholders that may create conflicts of interest between our company and these shareholders. For example, we enter into land leasing agreements with our affiliates, including Amaralina Agrícola Ltda., or “Amaralina”, Santa Bárbara Agrícola S.A., or “Santa Bárbara” and São Francisco S.A., or “São Francisco”. The accounts payable balances result mainly from the lease of agriculture land, which are at prices and on terms equivalent to the average terms and prices of transactions that we enter into with third parties. Commercial and financial transactions between our affiliates and us, even on if entered into on an arm’s length basis, create the potential for, or could result in, conflicts of interests. Risks Related To Brazil Brazilian economic, political and other conditions, and Brazilian government policies or actions in response to these conditions, may negatively affect our business and financial performance and the market price of our class A common shares. The Brazilian economy has been characterized by frequent and occasionally extensive intervention by the Brazilian government and unstable economic cycles. The Brazilian government has often changed monetary, taxation, credit, tariff and other policies to influence the course of Brazil’s economy. For example, the government’s actions to control inflation have at times involved setting wage and price controls, blocking access to bank accounts, imposing exchange controls and limiting imports into Brazil. We have no control over, and cannot predict, what policies or actions the Brazilian government may take in the future. Our business, financial performance and prospects, as well as the market prices of our class A common shares, may be adversely affected by, among others, the following factors: · exchange rate movements; · exchange control policies; · expansion or contraction of the Brazilian economy, as measured by rates of growth in gross domestic product, or “GDP”; · inflation; · tax policies; · other economic, political, diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Brazil; 20 Table of Contents · interest rates; · liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; and · social and political instability. These factors, as well as uncertainty over whether the Brazilian government may implement changes in policy or regulations relating to these factors, may adversely affect us and our business and financial performance and the market price of our class A common shares. Cosan generally invoices its sales in Brazilian reais, but a substantial portion of Cosan’s net sales are from export sales that are billed in U.S. dollars. At the same time, the majority of Cosan’s costs are denominated in reais. As a result, our operating margins are negatively affected when there is an appreciation of the real to the U.S. dollar. Additionally, we have indebtedness with fixed and floating rates, and we are thus exposed to the risk of fluctuations in interest rates. If there is an increase in interest rates, our financial results may be affected. Inflation and government measures to curb inflation, may adversely affect the Brazilian economy, the Brazilian securities market, our business and operations and the market prices of our class A common shares. At times in the past, Brazil has experienced high rates of inflation. According to the General Market Price Index (Índice Geral de Preços – Mercado), or “IGP-M”, a general price inflation index, the inflation rates in Brazil were 12.4% in 2004, 1.2% in 2005, 3.8% in 2006, 7.7% in 2007 and 9.8% in 2008. In addition, according to the National Extended Consumer Price Index (Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor Amplo), or “IPCA”, published by the IBGE, the Brazilian price inflation rates were 7.6% in 2004, 5.7% in 2005, 3.1% in 2006 and 4.5% in 2007 and 5.9% in 2008. The Brazilian government’s measures to control inflation have often included maintaining a tight monetary policy with high interest rates, thereby restricting availability of credit and reducing economic growth. Inflation, actions to combat inflation and public speculation about possible additional actions have also contributed materially to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets. Brazil may experience high levels of inflation in future periods. Periods of higher inflation may slow the rate of growth of the Brazilian economy, which could lead to reduced demand for our products in Brazil and decreased net sales. Inflation is also likely to increase some of our costs and expenses, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers and, as a result, may reduce our profit margins and net income. In addition, high inflation generally leads to higher domestic interest rates, and, as a result, the costs of servicing any floating-rate real-denominated debt may increase, resulting in lower net income. Inflation and its effect on domestic interest rates can, in addition, lead to reduced liquidity in the domestic capital and lending markets, which could affect our ability to refinance our indebtedness in those markets. Any decline in our net sales or net income and any deterioration in our financial performance would also likely lead to a decline in the market price of our class A common shares. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar but a substantial portion of our sales is in Brazilian reais, so that exchange rate movements may increase our financial expenses and negatively affect our profitability. Cosan generally invoices its sales in Brazilian reais, but reports results in U.S. dollars. The results of Cosan and our other Brazilian subsidiaries are translated from reais into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, our net sales and net income may decrease. Significant volatility in the value of the real in relation to the U.S. dollar could harm our ability to meet our U.S. dollar-denominated liabilities. The Brazilian currency has historically suffered frequent devaluations. In the past, the Brazilian government has implemented various economic plans and exchange rate policies, including sudden 21 Table of Contents devaluations and periodic mini-devaluations, during which the frequency of adjustments has ranged from daily to monthly, floating exchange rate systems, exchange controls and dual exchange rate markets. There have been significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Brazilian currency and the U.S. dollar and other currencies. In fiscal year 2004, the real devalued slightly by 1.9%, ending at R$2.945 per US$1.00. In fiscal year 2005, the real ended at R$2.531 per US$1.00, which represented a 14.0% appreciation. In fiscal year 2006, the real appreciated by 17.5%, ending at R$2.089 per US$1.00. In fiscal year 2007, the real appreciated by 2.6%, ending at R$2.034 per US$1.00. In fiscal year 2008, the real appreciated by 20.5%, closing at R$1.687 per US$1.00. In transition fiscal year 2009, the real devalued by 37.2%, closing at R$2.315 per US$1.00. Because Cosan generally invoices its sales in Brazilian reais, devaluation of the real against foreign currencies may generate losses in our foreign currency-denominated liabilities as well as an increase in our funding costs with a negative impact on our ability to finance our operations through access to the international capital markets and on the market value of the class A common shares. A strengthening of the real in relation to the U.S. dollar generally has the opposite effect. Further devaluations of the Brazilian currency may occur and impact our business in the future. These foreign exchange and monetary gains or losses can be substantial, which can significantly impact our earnings from one period to the next. In addition, depreciation of the real relative to the U.S. dollar could (1) result in additional inflationary pressures in Brazil by generally increasing the price of imported products and services and requiring recessionary government policies to curb demand and (2) weaken investor confidence in Brazil and reduce the market price of the class A common shares. On the other hand, further appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar may lead to a deterioration of the country’s current account and the balance of payments and may dampen export-driven growth. Because a substantial portion of Cosan’s indebtedness is, and will continue to be, denominated in or indexed to the U.S. dollar, our foreign currency exposure related to Cosan’s indebtedness as of March 31, 2009 was US$1,099.8 million. We manage a portion of our exchange rate risk through foreign currency derivative instruments, but our foreign currency debt obligations are not completely hedged. In addition, a devaluation of the real would effectively increase the interest expense in respect of our U.S. dollar-denominated debt. Changes in tax laws may increase our tax burden and, as a result, adversely affect our profitability. The Brazilian government regularly implements changes to tax regimes that may increase the tax burden on Cosan and its customers. These changes include modifications in the rate of assessments and, on occasion, enactment of temporary taxes, the proceeds of which are earmarked for designated governmental purposes. In April 2003, the Brazilian government presented a tax reform proposal, which was mainly designed to simplify tax assessments, to avoid internal disputes within and between the Brazilian states and municipalities, and to redistribute tax revenues. The tax reform proposal provided for changes in the rules governing the federal Social Integration Program (Programa de Integração Social), or “PIS”, the federal Contribution for Social Security Financing (Contribuição para Financiamento da Seguridade Social), or “COFINS”, the federal Tax on Bank Account Transactions (Contribuição Provisória sobre Movimentação ou Transmissão de Valores e de Créditos e Direitos de Natureza Financeira), or “CPMF”, the state Tax on the Circulation of Merchandise and Services (Imposto Sobre a Circulação de Mercadorias e Serviços), or “ICMS”, and some other taxes. The effects of these proposed tax reform measures and any other changes that result from enactment of additional tax reforms have not been, and cannot be, quantified. Moreover, as a measure to avoid unfair competitive practices in the ethanol business, the federal government has recently enacted Law No. 11,727/08. According to this new law, the collection of PIS and COFINS has shifted from the distributors to distilleries, thereby increasing the burden of these taxes collected at the distilleries from 25% to 40%. The law further requires the installation of flow meters at distilleries to control the output of ethanol. However, some of these measures may result in increases in our overall tax burden, which could negatively affect our overall financial performance. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Shares We are a Bermuda company, and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. We are a Bermuda exempted company, so that the rights of holders of our shares will be governed by Bermuda law and our bye-laws. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. All of our directors and some of the experts referred to in this transition report are not citizens or residents of the United States, and all of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on those persons in the United States or to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts against us or those persons based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. We have been advised by our Bermuda counsel, Attride-Stirling & Woloniecki, that uncertainty exists as to whether courts in Bermuda will enforce judgments obtained in other jurisdictions, including the United States, against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of those jurisdictions or entertain actions in Bermuda against us or our directors or officers under the securities laws of other jurisdictions. The United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, may not necessarily be enforceable in Bermuda. Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and Brazil and may afford less protection to shareholders. Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States or Brazil. As a Bermuda company, we are governed by the Companies Act 1981. The Companies Act 1981 differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. or Brazilian corporations and their shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, amalgamations, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Under Bermuda law, directors and officers of a company generally owe fiduciary duties to the company and not to individual shareholders. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under Bermuda law. The Bermuda courts may, however, in certain circumstances permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company’s memorandum of association or bye-laws. Consideration would be given by a Bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or, for example, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company’s shareholders than that which actually approved it. The Companies Act 1981 imposes a duty on directors and officers to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and to exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. Directors of a Bermuda company have a duty to avoid conflicts of interest. However, if a director discloses a direct or indirect interest in any contract or arrangement with us as required by Bermuda law, our bye-laws provide that such director is entitled to be counted for quorum purposes, but may not vote in respect of any such contract or arrangement in which he or she is interested. In addition, the rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under the Companies Act 1981 are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in jurisdictions in the United States, particularly in the State of Delaware. Provisions in our bye-laws may discourage takeovers, which could affect the return on the investment of our shareholders. Our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions provide, among other things, for: · a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; 23 Table of Contents · restrictions on the time period in which directors may be nominated; · the affirmative vote of a majority of our directors in office and the resolution of the shareholders passed by a majority of votes cast at a general meeting or, if not approved by a majority of the directors in office, the resolution of the shareholders at a general meeting passed by 66- 2/3% of all votes attaching to all shares then in issue for amalgamation and other business combination transactions; and · the tag-along rights described under “Description of Share Capital – Tag-along Rights”. These bye-laws provisions could deter a third party from seeking to acquire us, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a holding company, we may face limitations on our ability to receive distributions from our subsidiaries. We conduct all of our operations through subsidiaries and are dependent upon dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. For example, Brazilian law permits the Brazilian government to impose temporary restrictions on conversions of Brazilian currency into foreign currencies and on remittances to foreign investors of proceeds from their investments in Brazil, whenever there is a serious imbalance in Brazil’s balance of payments or there are reasons to expect a pending serious imbalance. The Brazilian government last imposed remittance restrictions for approximately six months in 1989 and early 1990. The Brazilian government may take similar measures in the future. Any imposition of restrictions on conversions and remittances could hinder or prevent us from converting into U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies and remitting abroad dividends, distributions or the proceeds from any sale in Brazil of common shares of our Brazilian subsidiaries. We currently conduct all of our operations through our Brazilian subsidiaries. As a result, any imposition of exchange controls restrictions could reduce the market prices of the class A common shares. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our directors and officers and also provide our directors and officers with indemnification from their actions and omissions, although such indemnification for liabilities under the Securities Act is unenforceable in the United States. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. Our bye-laws also indemnify our directors and officers in respect of their actions and omissions, except in respect of their fraud or dishonesty. The indemnification provided in our bye-laws is not exclusive of other indemnification rights to which a director or officer may be entitled, provided these rights do not extend to his or her fraud or dishonesty. Insofar as indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act may be permitted to directors, officers or persons controlling us pursuant to the foregoing provisions, we understand that, in the opinion of the staff of the SEC, such indemnification is against public policy as expressed in the Securities Act and is, therefore, unenforceable in the United States. The sale, or issuance, of a significant number of our common shares may adversely affect the market value of our class A common shares. The sale of a significant number of our common shares, or the perception that such a sale could occur, may adversely affect the market price of our class A common shares. We have an authorized share capital of 1,000,000,000 class A common shares and 188,886,360 class B common shares, of which 174,355,341 class A common shares are issued and outstanding and 96,332,044 class B series 1 common shares are issued and outstanding as of March 31, 2009. In accordance with lock-up agreements, holders of our class B common 24 Table of Contents shares have agreed, subject to limited exceptions, not to offer, sell, transfer, or dispose in any other way, directly or indirectly before August 16, 2010 less than all of the class B common shares that they own. After the end of such lock-up period, such previously restricted class B common shares may be traded freely. Our bye-laws establish that our board of directors is authorized to issue any of our authorized, but unissued share capital. Our shareholders at a shareholders general meeting may authorize the increase of our authorized share capital. As a result, we will be able to issue a substantial number of new shares after the lock-up period, which, if we decided to do so, could dilute the participation of our shareholders in our share capital. Actual dividends paid on our shares may not be consistent with the dividend policy adopted by our board of directors. Our board of directors will adopt a dividend policy that provides, subject to Bermuda law, for the payment of dividends to shareholders equal to approximately 25% of our annual consolidated net income (as calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP). Our board of directors may, in its discretion and for any reason, amend or repeal this dividend policy. Our board of directors may decrease the level of dividends provided for in this dividend policy or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends. Future dividends with respect to our common shares, if any, will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, distribution of dividends made by our subsidiaries, contractual restrictions, business opportunities, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Cosan has a dividend policy that is similar to that of our company, although the net income is calculated in accordance with Brazilian GAAP (subject to certain adjustments mandated by Brazilian corporate law). Because Brazilian GAAP differs in significant respects from U.S. GAAP, Cosan’s dividends to us may be lower than the corresponding amounts under our dividend policy, which is based upon net income under U.S. GAAP. Accordingly, we may not be able to pay the dividends anticipated under our dividend policy in the event that Cosan’s net income under Brazilian GAAP is substantially lower than our net income under U.S. GAAP. To the extent we pay dividends to our shareholders, we will have less capital available to meet our future liquidity needs. Our business strategy contemplates substantial growth over the next several years, and we expect that such growth will require considerable liquidity. To the extent that we pay dividends in accordance with our dividend policy, the amounts distributed to our shareholders will not be available to us to fund future growth and meet our other liquidity needs. We may require additional funds in the future, which may not be available or which may result in dilution of the interests of shareholders in our company. We may need to issue debt or equity securities in order to obtain additional public or private financing. The securities that we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our shares. If we decide to raise additional capital through an offering of common shares, the participation of our shareholders in our share capital may be diluted. Moreover, additional funding that may be required in the future may not be available under favorable terms. The price of our class A common shares is subject to volatility. The market price of our class A common shares could be subject to significant fluctuations due to various factors, including actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial performance, losses of key personnel, economic downturns, political events in Brazil or other jurisdictions in which we operate, developments affecting the ethanol and sugar industries, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, the introduction of new products or technologies by us or our competitors, or our failure to meet expectations of analysts or investors. 25 Table of Contents 