Risk Factors” beginning on page 9. • uncertainties as to the timing and closing of the Graham Transaction (as defined herein); • approval of the Graham Transaction by our stockholders; • the satisfaction of closing conditions to the Graham Transaction, including the receipt of regulatory approvals; • costs related to the Graham Transaction; • the diversion of management time on Graham Transaction-related issues; • other issues and risks related to the business of Graham Packaging including loss of customers, violations of purchase and customer contracts; decline in prices and loss of key management. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. 1 Table of Contents PART I References to “we,” “us” or “our company” refer to Hicks Acquisition Company I, Inc., a Delaware corporation. References to our “management” or our “management team” refer to our officers and directors and references to our “sponsor” refer to HH-HACI, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership. References to our “initial stockholders” refer to our sponsor, William H. Cunningham, William A. Montgomery, Brian Mulroney and William F. Quinn. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Company Overview We are a blank check company formed in Delaware on February 26, 2007 for the purpose of acquiring, or acquiring control of, through a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination one or more businesses or assets. Our efforts in identifying prospective target businesses will not be limited to a particular industry, but we will not complete a business combination with any entity engaged in the energy industry as its principal business or whose principal business operations are conducted outside of the United States or Canada. We intend to effect our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of our initial public offering, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. On October 3, 2007, we completed our initial public offering of 55,200,000 units with each unit consisting of one share of our common stock and one warrant, each to purchase one share of our common stock at an exercise price of $7.50 per share. The units from the initial public offering were sold at an offering price of $10.00 per unit, generating total gross proceeds of $552 million. Simultaneously with the consummation of our initial public offering, we consummated the private sale of 7,000,000 warrants to our sponsor, HH-HACI, L.P., at a price of $1.00 per warrant, generating gross proceeds of $7,000,000. After deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and the initial public offering expenses, approximately $536.1 million of the proceeds from the initial public offering and the private placement was deposited into a trust account at JP Morgan Chase, N.A. with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company as trustee. Such funds will not be released from the trust account to us until the earlier of completion of our initial business combination or our liquidation although we may withdraw up to an aggregate of approximately $6.6 million of the interest income accumulated on the funds for working capital requirements, in addition to any sums necessary to pay taxes. After the payment of approximately $1.35 million in expenses relating to the initial public offering, $250,000 of the net proceeds of the public offering and private placement was not deposited into a trust account and retained by us for working capital purposes. Through December 31, 2008, we have used approximately $1.3 million of the net proceeds that were not deposited into the trust account to pay offering expenses while the remaining balance was used for general corporate purposes. The net proceeds deposited into the trust account remain on deposit in the trust account earning interest. As of December 31, 2008, there was $539.8 million plus accrued interest of approximately $388,000 held in the trust account. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $3.8 million had been withdrawn from the trust account for taxes and approximately $5.0 million had been withdrawn for working capital purposes. We are not presently engaged in, and we will not engage in, any substantive commercial business until we consummate a business combination. We intend to utilize our cash, including the funds held in the trust account, capital stock, debt or a combination of the foregoing in effecting a business combination. A business combination may involve the acquisition of, or merger with, a company which does not need substantial additional capital but which desires to establish a public trading market for its shares, while avoiding what it may deem to be adverse consequences of undertaking a public offering itself. These include time delays, significant expense, loss of voting control and compliance with various Federal and state securities laws. In the alternative, we may seek to consummate a business combination with a company that may be financially unstable or in its early stages of development or growth. On July 1, 2008, we entered into an Equity Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”), with GPC Holdings, L.P., a Pennsylvania limited partnership (“GPCH”), Graham Packaging Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (“GPC”), Graham Capital Company, a Pennsylvania limited partnership, (“GCC”), Graham Engineering Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (“GEC” and, together with GPCH, GCC and GPC, the “Graham Family Holders”), BMP/Graham Holdings Corporation, a Delaware corporation (“BMP/GHC” and, together with the Graham Family Holders, the “Sellers”), GPC Capital Corp. II, a Delaware corporation (“Graham IPO Corp.”), Graham Packing Holdings Company, a Pennsylvania 2 Table of Contents limited partnership (“Graham Packaging”), and the other parties signatory thereto, pursuant to which through a series of transactions (collectively, the “Graham Transaction”), our stockholders would acquire a majority of the outstanding common stock of Graham IPO Corp., par value $0.01 per share (the “Graham IPO Corp. Common Stock”), and Graham IPO Corp. would own, either directly or indirectly, 100% of the partnership interests of Graham Packaging Company, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the “Operating Company”). On January 27, 2009, we entered into a First Amendment (the “Amendment”) to the Purchase Agreement. The Amendment stipulates that (i) we and Blackstone Capital Partners III Merchant Banking Fund L.P., as the Seller Representative, each have the right to terminate the Purchase Agreement by giving written notice to the other and (ii) each party is released from the Purchase Agreement’s exclusivity provisions and is permitted to consider other possible transactions. Selection of a target business and structuring of our initial business combination Subject to the requirements that (i) our initial business combination have a fair market value of at least 80% of the initial amount held in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting commissions of approximately $17.4 million), and (ii) we will not enter into a business combination with any entity engaged in the energy industry as its principal business or whose principal business operations are conducted outside of the United States or Canada, our management will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting one or more prospective target businesses. We will only consummate an initial business combination in which we become the controlling shareholder of the target. The key factor that we will rely on in determining controlling shareholder status would be our acquisition of more than half of the voting equity interests of the target company. We will not consider any transaction that does not meet such criteria. We have not established any other specific attributes or criteria (financial or otherwise) for prospective target businesses. In evaluating a prospective target business, our management may consider a variety of factors, including one or more of the following: • financial condition and results of operations; • growth potential; • brand recognition and potential; • experience and skill of management and availability of additional personnel; • capital requirements; • stage of development of the business and its products or services; • existing distribution arrangements and the potential for expansion; • degree of current or potential market acceptance of the products or services; • proprietary aspects of products and the extent of intellectual property or other protection for products or formulas; • impact of regulation on the business; • regulatory environment of the industry; • seasonal sales fluctuations and the ability to offset these fluctuations through other business combinations, introduction of new products, or product line extensions; • costs associated with effecting the business combination; • industry leadership, sustainability of market share and attractiveness of market sectors in which target business participates; and • macro competitive dynamics in the industry within which the company competes. 3 Table of Contents These criteria are not intended to be exhaustive, and our management may consider additional factors it deems to be relevant. Any evaluation relating to the merits of a particular initial business combination may be based, to the extent relevant, on the above factors as well as other considerations our management deems relevant to our business objective. In evaluating a prospective target business, we will conduct an extensive due diligence review which will encompass, among other things, meetings with incumbent management and employees, document reviews, interviews of customers and suppliers, inspection of facilities, as well as review of financial and other information which will be made available to us. The time required to select and evaluate a target business and to structure and complete our initial business combination, and the costs associated with this process, are not currently ascertainable with any degree of certainty. Any costs incurred with respect to the identification and evaluation of a prospective target business with which a business combination is not ultimately completed will result in our incurring losses and will reduce the funds we can use to complete another business combination. As of December 31, 2008, $5.0 million of the $6.6 million in trust interest income available to us for working capital expenses had been withdrawn by us from our trust account. We will not pay any finders or consulting fees to members of our management team, or any of their respective affiliates, for services rendered to or in connection with a business combination. Fair market value of target business or businesses In order to constitute our initial business combination, a business combination must satisfy the threshold fair market value requirement of at least 80% of the initial amount held in the trust account (excluding $17.4 million held in the trust account representing the underwriters’ deferred commission). Our board of directors will determine the fair market value based on standards generally accepted by the financial community. If our board of directors is not able to independently determine the fair market value of our initial business combination, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is subject to oversight by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority as to the fair market value. We will seek to have any such opinion provide that our stockholders would be entitled to rely upon such opinion. The willingness of an investment banking firm to provide for such reliance would be a factor considered by us in selecting an independent investment banking firm. If no opinion is obtained, our public stockholders will be relying solely on the judgment of our board of directors. Opportunity for stockholder approval of our initial business combination Prior to the completion of our initial business combination, we will submit a business combination to our stockholders for approval, even if the nature of the acquisition is such as would not ordinarily require stockholder approval under applicable law or regulations. In connection with our initial business combination, we will also submit to our stockholders for approval a proposal to amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for our corporate life to continue perpetually following the consummation of such business combination. Any vote to extend our corporate life to continue perpetually following the consummation of our initial business combination will be taken only if such business combination is approved. We will only consummate our initial business combination if (i) the business combination is approved by a majority of votes cast by our public stockholders at a duly held stockholders meeting, (ii) an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for our perpetual existence is approved by holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock and (iii) public stockholders owning no more than 30% (minus one share) of our outstanding shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering both vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights. This may have the effect of making it easier for us to have a business combination approved over stockholder dissent than other blank check companies with a business purpose similar to ours. Similar blank check companies generally will not consummate a business combination if public stockholders holding more than 20% of their outstanding shares of common stock exercise their conversion rights. In connection with seeking the approval of our stockholders for any business combination, we will furnish our stockholders with proxy solicitation materials prepared in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the “Securities Exchange Act”) which, among other things, will include a description of the operations of target candidates and audited historical financial statements of the target candidates. In connection with the vote required for any initial business combination, our initial stockholders have agreed to vote all of the founder’s shares in accordance with the majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders and to vote any shares purchased during or after our initial public offering and held by it in favor of our initial business combination. Our initial stockholders have also agreed that they will vote all shares of the company owned by them 4 Table of Contents in favor of an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for our perpetual existence in connection with a vote to approve our initial business combination. Conversion rights At the time we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination, each public stockholder will have the right to convert its shares of common stock into a pro rata share of the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account (before payment of deferred underwriting commissions and including interest earned on their pro rata portion of the trust account, net of income taxes payable on such interest and net of interest income of up to $6.6 million on the trust account previously released to us to fund our working capital requirements) if our initial business combination is approved and completed. Our initial stockholders will not have such conversion rights with respect to founder’s shares. The actual per-share conversion price will be equal to the per share amount of $9.71 initially deposited in the trust account (plus any interest earned on the proceeds in the trust account in excess of the amount released to us for working capital purposes, net of taxes payable on such interest, on such amount per share). As this amount is lower than our $10.00 per unit initial public offering price and it may be less than the market price of the common stock on the date of repurchase, there may be a disincentive on the part of public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights. As of December 31, 2008, $5.0 million of the $6.6 million in trust interest income available to us for working capital expenses had been withdrawn by us from our trust account. An eligible public stockholder who wishes to exercise its conversion rights may request conversion of its shares at any time after the mailing to our stockholders of the proxy statement and prior to the vote taken with respect to a proposed business combination at a meeting held for that purpose, but the request will not be granted unless the public stockholder votes against our initial business combination, our initial business combination is approved and completed, the public stockholder holds its shares through the closing of our initial business combination and the public stockholder follows the specific procedures for conversion that will be set forth in the proxy statement relating to the stockholder vote on a proposed initial business combination. Following the approval of our initial business combination by our stockholders and until the completion of our initial business combination or termination of the definitive agreement relating to the proposed initial business combination, any transfer of shares owned by a public stockholder who has requested to exercise its conversion rights will be blocked. If a public stockholder votes against our initial business combination but fails to properly exercise its conversion rights, such public stockholder will not have its shares of common stock converted. Any request for conversion, once made, may be withdrawn at any time up to the date of the meeting of stockholders being held for the purpose of approving the initial business combination. It is anticipated that the funds to be distributed to public stockholders who elect conversion will be distributed promptly after completion of our initial business combination. Public stockholders who exercise their conversion rights will still have the right to exercise any warrants they still hold. We may require public stockholders to tender their certificates to our transfer agent prior to the meeting or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using the Depository Trust Company’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. We will notify investors on a Current Report on Form 8-K and in our proxy statement related to the initial business combination if we impose this requirement. Traditionally, in order to perfect conversion rights in connection with a blank check company’s business combination, a holder could simply vote against a proposed business combination and check a box on the proxy card indicating such holder was seeking to exercise their conversion rights. After the business combination was approved, the company would contact such stockholder to arrange for him or her to deliver his certificate to verify ownership. As a result, the stockholder then had an “option window” after the consummation of the business combination during which he or she could monitor the price of the stock in the market. If the price rose above the conversion price, he or she could sell his shares in the open market before actually delivering his or her shares to the company for cancellation in consideration for the conversion price. Thus, the conversion right, to which stockholders were aware they needed to commit before the stockholder meeting, would become a “put” right surviving past the consummation of the business combination until the converting holder delivered his certificate. The requirement for physical or electronic delivery prior to the meeting ensures that a converting holder’s election to convert is irrevocable once the business combination is approved. If we elect to require physical delivery of the share certificates, we would expect that stockholders would have to comply with the following steps. If the shares are held in street name, stockholders must instruct their account executive at the stockholders’ bank or broker to withdraw the shares from the stockholders’ account and request that a physical certificate be issued in the stockholders’ name. Our transfer agent will be available to assist with the process. No later than the day prior to the stockholder meeting, the written instructions stating that the stockholder wishes to convert his or her shares into a pro rata share of the trust account and confirming that the stockholder has held the shares since the record date and will continue to hold them through the stockholder meeting and the closing of our business combination must be presented to our transfer agent. Certificates that have not been tendered in accordance with these procedures by the day prior to the stockholder meeting will not be converted into cash. In the event that a stockholder tenders his or her shares and decides prior to the 5 Table of Contents stockholder meeting that he or she does not want to convert his or her shares, the stockholder may withdraw the tender. In the event that a stockholder tenders shares and our business combination is not completed, these shares will not be converted into cash and the physical certificates representing these shares will be returned to the stockholder. We will not consummate a business combination if holders of more than 30% (minus one share) of our outstanding shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights. This may have the effect of making it easier for us to have a business combination approved over stockholder dissent than other blank check companies with a business purpose similar to ours. Similar blank check companies generally will not consummate a business combination if public stockholders holding more than 20% of their outstanding shares of common stock exercise their conversion rights. If a vote on our initial business combination is held and our initial business combination is not approved, we may continue to try to consummate our initial business combination with a different target until September 28, 2009. Liquidation if no business combination Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that our corporate existence will automatically cease on September 28, 2009, except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating pursuant to Section 278 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This has the same effect as if our board of directors and stockholders had formally voted to approve our dissolution pursuant to Section 275 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Limiting our corporate existence to a specified date as permitted by Section 102(b)(5) of the Delaware General Corporation Law removes the necessity to obtain formal stockholder approval of our dissolution and liquidation and to file a certificate of dissolution with the Delaware Secretary of State. Instead, we will notify the Delaware Secretary of State in writing on the termination date that our corporate existence is ceasing, and include with such notice payment of any franchise taxes then due to or assessable by the state. We view this provision terminating our corporate life by September 28, 2009, as an obligation to our stockholders and will not take any action to amend or waive this provision to allow us to survive for a longer period of time except in connection with the consummation of our initial business combination. If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination by September 28, 2009, as soon as practicable thereafter we will adopt a plan of distribution in accordance with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 278 of the Delaware General Corporation Law provides that our existence will continue for at least three years after its expiration for the purpose of prosecuting and defending suits, whether civil, criminal or administrative, by or against us, and of enabling us gradually to settle and close our business, to dispose of and convey our property, to discharge our liabilities and to distribute to our stockholders any remaining assets, but not for the purpose of continuing the business for which we were organized. Our existence will continue automatically even beyond the three-year period for the purpose of completing the prosecution or defense of suits begun prior to the expiration of the three-year period, until such time as any judgments, orders or decrees resulting from such suits are fully executed. Section 281(b) will require us to pay or make reasonable provision for all then-existing claims and obligations, including all contingent, conditional, or unmatured contractual claims known to us, and to make such provision as will be reasonably likely to be sufficient to provide compensation for any then-pending claims and for claims that have not been made known to us or that have not arisen but that, based on facts known to us at the time, are likely to arise or to become known to us within 10 years after the date of dissolution. Under Section 281(b), the plan of distribution must provide for all of such claims to be paid in full or make provision for payments to be made in full, as applicable, if there are sufficient assets. If there are insufficient assets, the plan must provide that such claims and obligations be paid or provided for according to their priority and, among claims of equal priority, ratably to the extent of legally available assets. Any remaining assets will be available for distribution to our stockholders. We will distribute to all of our public stockholders, in proportion to their respective equity interests, an aggregate sum equal to the amount in the trust account, inclusive of any interest, plus any remaining net assets (subject to our obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors as described below). We anticipate notifying the trustee of the trust account to begin liquidating such assets promptly after our dissolution and anticipate it will take no more than 10 business days to effectuate such distribution. Our initial stockholders have waived their rights to participate in any liquidation distribution with respect to the founder’s shares. There will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our warrants, which will expire worthless. We will pay the costs of liquidation from our remaining assets outside of the trust account. If the assets remaining outside of the trust account are insufficient to pay such liquidation costs, we will pay the remaining liquidation costs from the proceeds of the trust account prior to distributing the funds in the trust account to our public stockholders. In such event, the initial per-share liquidation price could be less than the $9.71 per-share liquidation price described below. 6 Table of Contents If we do not complete our initial business combination by September 28, 2009 and expend all of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, other than the proceeds deposited in the trust account, and without taking into account interest, if any, earned on the trust account, the initial per-share liquidation price would be $9.71, or $0.29 less than our per-unit initial public offering price of $10.00. The per share liquidation price includes approximately $17.4 million in deferred underwriting commissions that would also be distributable to our public stockholders. The proceeds deposited in the trust account could, however, become subject to the claims of our creditors (which could include vendors and service providers we have engaged to assist us in any way in connection with our search for a target business and that are owed money by us, as well as target businesses themselves) which could have higher priority than the claims of our public stockholders. Thomas O. Hicks, our founder and chairman of the board, has agreed that he will be liable to us if and to the extent any claims by a third party for services rendered or products sold, or by a prospective target business, reduce the amounts in the trust account, except as to (i) any claims by a third party who executed a waiver (even if such waiver is subsequently found to be invalid and unenforceable) of any and all rights to seek access to the funds in the trust account, or (ii) any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). In the event that this indemnity obligation arose and Mr. Hicks did not comply with such obligation, we believe that we would have an obligation to seek enforcement of the obligation and that our board of directors would have a fiduciary duty to seek enforcement of such obligation on our behalf. In the event Mr. Hicks has liability to us under this indemnification arrangement, we cannot assure you that he will have the assets necessary to satisfy those obligations. Accordingly, the actual per-share liquidation price could be less than $9.71, plus interest, due to claims of creditors. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders at least $9.71 per share. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, we do not intend to comply with those procedures since, as stated above, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after September 28, 2009 in the event our initial business combination has not been consummated. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend beyond the third anniversary of such date. Because we will not be complying with Section 280, Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law requires us to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any claims of creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to our distributing the funds in the trust account to our public stockholders. As a result, if we liquidate, the per-share distribution from the trust account could be less than $9.71 due to claims or potential claims of creditors. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the most likely claims, if any, to arise would be from our vendors and service providers (such as accountants, lawyers, investment bankers, etc.) and potential target businesses. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the then-remaining proceeds held in the trust account, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, and thereby exposed itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. 7 Table of Contents Competition In identifying, evaluating and selecting a target business for a business combination, we may encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including other blank check companies, private equity groups and leveraged buyout funds, and operating businesses seeking strategic acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Moreover, many of these competitors possess greater financial, technical, human and other resources than us. Our ability to acquire larger target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of a target business. Furthermore: • our obligation to seek stockholder approval of a business combination or obtain necessary financial information may delay the completion of a transaction; • our obligation to repurchase for cash shares of common stock held by our public stockholders who vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights may reduce the resources available to us for a business combination; • we will not consummate a business combination if holders of more than 30% (minus one share) of our outstanding shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights; • our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses; and • the requirement to acquire one or more businesses or assets that have a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the balance of the trust account at the time of the acquisition (excluding deferred underwriting commissions of approximately $17.4 million) could require us to acquire the assets of several businesses at the same time, all of which sales would be contingent on the closings of the other sales, which could make it more difficult to consummate the initial business combination. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. Employees We currently have seven officers. These individuals are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our matters but they intend to devote as much of their time as they deem necessary to our affairs until we have completed our initial business combination. The amount of time they will devote in any time period will vary based on whether a target business has been selected for our initial business combination and the stage of the business combination process the company is in. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of our initial business combination. Available Information We are required to file Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), on a regular basis, and are required to disclose certain material events (e.g., changes in corporate control, acquisitions or dispositions of a significant amount of assets other than in the ordinary course of business and bankruptcy) in a current report on Form 8-K. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s Internet website is located at http://www.sec.gov. 8 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this report, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive and you are encouraged to perform your own investigation with respect to our company and our business. You should also read the other information included in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business We are a newly formed development stage company with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed development stage company with no operating results. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing our initial business combination with one or more target businesses. If we fail to complete a business combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required timeframe, in which case our corporate existence would cease and we would liquidate our assets. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we must complete our initial business combination by September 28, 2009. If we fail to consummate our initial business combination within such time period, our corporate existence will cease and we will liquidate and wind up. The foregoing requirements are set forth in Article IX of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and, until the consummation of our initial business combination, may not be eliminated without the vote of our board and the vote of 100% of the shares of our outstanding voting stock cast at a meeting of the stockholders at which a quorum is present. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within such time period. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of our initial business combination. If we liquidate before concluding our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive less than $10.00 per share on our liquidation and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination and must liquidate, the per-share liquidation distribution may be less than $10.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking our initial business combination. If we were unable to conclude our initial business combination and expended all of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, other than the proceeds deposited in the trust account, and without taking into account interest, if any, earned on the trust account, net of income taxes payable on such interest and net of up to $6.6 million in interest income on the trust account balance previously released to us to fund working capital requirements, the initial per-share liquidation amount would be $9.71, or $0.29 less than our per-unit initial public offering price of $10.00. Furthermore, our outstanding warrants are not entitled to participate in a liquidating distribution and the warrants will therefore expire worthless if we liquidate before completing our initial business combination. If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination, our public stockholders will be forced to wait, at a minimum, until September 28, 2009 before receiving liquidation distributions. We have until September 28, 2009 to consummate our initial business combination. If we do not consummate our initial business combination during such time period, we will liquidate in accordance with our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. We have no obligation to return funds to public stockholders prior to such date unless we consummate our initial business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where public stockholders have sought conversion of their shares. Only after the expiration of this full time period will public stockholders be entitled to liquidation distributions if we are unable to complete our initial business combination. Further, we may not be able to disburse the funds in our trust account immediately following September 28, 2009, until we have commenced the liquidation process in accordance with our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and Delaware law. If we have not consummated our initial business combination by September 28, 2009, we will automatically liquidate and dissolve without need of a stockholder vote. 9 Table of Contents We may require stockholders who wish to convert their shares to comply with specific requirements for conversion that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their conversion rights prior to the deadline for exercising conversion rights. We may require public stockholders who wish to convert their shares to physically tender their stock certificates to our transfer agent prior to the stockholder meeting or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using the Depository Trust Company’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. In order to obtain a physical stock certificate, a stockholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that stockholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical stock certificate. If we elect to require physical tender and it takes longer than we anticipate to obtain a physical certificate, stockholders who wish to convert may be unable to obtain physical certificates by the deadline for exercising their conversion rights and thus will be unable to convert their shares. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete an initial business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since our securities are listed on NYSE Alternext US, a national securities exchange, and we have net tangible assets in excess of $5 million, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC, to protect investors in blank check companies, such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Among other things, this means we will have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in some circumstances than do companies subject to Rule 419. Moreover, offerings subject to Rule 419 would prohibit the release of any interest earned on funds held in the trust account to us unless and until the funds in the trust account were released to us in connection with our consummation of an initial business combination. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate business combinations, it may be more difficult for us to do so. There are a number of other blank check companies seeking initial business combinations. Furthermore, there are a number of additional offerings for blank check companies that are still in the registration process but have not completed initial public offerings and there are likely to be more blank check companies filing registration statements for initial public offerings after the date of this report and prior to our completion of a business combination. While some of those companies must complete a business combination in specific industries, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. Therefore, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering not being held in the trust account, together with the $6.6 million of interest in the trust account which may be released to us for working capital purposes, are insufficient to allow us to operate until September 28, 2009, we may be unable to complete our initial business combination. We believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account, plus the interest earned on the funds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to operate until September 28, 2009. However, we cannot assure you that our estimate will be accurate. We could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. As of December 31, 2008, $5.0 million of the $6.6 million in trust interest income available to us for working capital expenses had been withdrawn by us from our trust account. 10 Table of Contents Subsequent to our consummation of our initial business combination, we may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will surface all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. As a result of these factors, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even if our due diligence successfully identifies certain risks, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. A decline in interest rates could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete our initial business combination since we will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search, to pay our taxes and to complete our initial business combination. We depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with up to $6.6 million of additional working capital we may need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination. A substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close our initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our sponsor or management team to operate or may be forced to liquidate. Neither our sponsor nor our management team is under any obligation to advance funds in such circumstances. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders may be less than approximately $9.71 per share. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses and other entities with which we do business execute agreements waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, and the execution of such an agreement is not a condition to our doing business with anyone. Even if they do execute such agreements, they would not be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account. There is also no guarantee that a court would uphold the validity of such waivers and, if a court failed to uphold the validity of such waivers, we would not be indemnified by Mr. Hicks. Mr. Hicks, our founder and chairman of the board, has agreed that he will be liable to us if and to the extent any claims by a third party for services rendered or products sold, or by a prospective target business, reduce the amounts in the trust account, except as to (i) any claims by a third party who executed a waiver (even if such waiver is subsequently found to be invalid and unenforceable) of any and all rights to seek access to the funds in the trust account and (ii) any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. In the event that this indemnity obligation arose and Mr. Hicks did not comply with such obligation, we believe that we would have an obligation to seek enforcement of the obligation and that our board of directors would have a fiduciary duty to seek enforcement of such obligation on our behalf. Based on representations made to us by Mr. Hicks, we currently believe that Mr. Hicks is of substantial means and capable of funding his indemnity obligations, even though we have not asked him to reserve funds for such an eventuality. However, we cannot assure you that Mr. Hicks will be able to satisfy those obligations. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders and, as a result, the per-share liquidation amount would be less than $9.71 due to claims of such creditors. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts described in this report. 11 Table of Contents If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, our activities may be restricted, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities, each of which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the U.S. Investment Company Act. The proceeds held in the trust account may be invested by the trustee only in U.S. government treasury bills with a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act. Because the investment of the proceeds will be restricted to these instruments, we believe we will meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act. If we were deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expenses for which we have not allotted. Changes in laws or regulations, or a failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business, investments and results of operations. We are subject to laws and regulations enacted by national, regional and local governments. In particular, upon admission, we will be required to comply with certain SEC and other legal requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws and regulations may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws and regulations and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, as interpreted and applied, by any of the persons referred to above could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution conducted in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after we liquidate; therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan of distribution that will reasonably provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims including those that are contingent, (ii) all pending proceedings to which we are a party and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. 12 Table of Contents Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the most likely claims, if any, to arise would be from our vendors that we engage (such as accountants, lawyers, investment bankers, etc.) and potential target businesses. If our plan of distribution complies with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share or the amount distributed to the stockholder. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of the date of distribution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the then-remaining proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after our liquidation in the event our initial business combination has not been consummated by September 28, 2009, such distributions may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Also, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or acting in bad faith by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors, which may expose the board and our company to claims of punitive damages. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. Although we have agreed to file a registration statement registering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants prior to the time the warrants become exercisable, an effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing such warrants to expire worthless. No warrant held by public stockholders will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless, at the time such holder seeks to exercise such warrant, we have a registration statement under the Securities Act in effect covering the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to the common stock. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to file and have a registration statement in effect covering shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants from the date the warrants became exercisable and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise, whether by net cash settlement or otherwise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current, the warrants held by public stockholders may have no value, we will have no obligation to settle the warrants for cash, the market for such warrants may be limited, such warrants may expire worthless and, as a result, an investor may have paid the full unit price solely for the shares of common stock included in the units. An investor will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of common stock upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless the common stock issuable upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Because the exemptions from qualification in certain states for resales of warrants and for issuances of common stock by the issuer upon exercise of a warrant may be different, a warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for issuance of common stock upon an exercise and the holder will be precluded from exercise of the warrant. At the time that the warrants become exercisable (following the later of our completion of an initial business combination or September 28, 2009), we expect to either continue to be listed on a national securities exchange, which would provide an exemption from registration in every state, or we would register the warrants in every state (or seek another exemption from registration in such states). Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. However, we cannot assure you of this fact. As a result, the warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants and they may expire worthless if the common stock issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. 13 Table of Contents Since we have not completed our initial business combination, you will be unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. We may consummate our initial business combination with a company in any industry, other than with an entity that is engaged in the energy industry as its principal business, and are not limited to any particular type of business, although we will not consummate a business combination with any entity whose principal business operations are conducted outside the United States or Canada. To the extent we complete our initial business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. If we complete our initial business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Even if we properly assess those risks, some of them may be outside of our control or ability to affect. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to our investors than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. We may not obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party as to the fair market value of acquisition candidates or the fairness of the transaction to our stockholders. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that the price we are paying is fair to our public stockholders. In addition, we are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that any initial business combination we select has a fair market value of at least 80% of the initial amount held in the trust account (less deferred underwriting commissions), the threshold value to constitute our initial business combination. If our board of directors is not able to independently determine the fair market value of our initial business combination, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is subject to oversight by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority as to the fair market value. If no opinion is obtained, our public stockholders will be relying solely on the judgment of our board of directors. We may issue additional common or preferred shares to complete our initial business combination or under an employee incentive plan after consummation of our initial business combination, which would dilute the interest of our stockholders and likely present other risks. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 225,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. We have 156,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of common stock available for issuance. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of common or preferred stock to complete our initial business combination or under an employee incentive plan after consummation of our initial business combination. The issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock: • may significantly dilute the equity interest of our investors; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock; • could cause a change in control if a substantial number of common stock is issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and/or warrants. We are dependent upon Mr. Hicks and his loss could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of individuals and, in particular, upon our founder and chairman of the board, Mr. Hicks. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of Mr. Hicks, at least until we have consummated a business combination. In addition, Mr. Hicks is not required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence. We do not have an employment agreement with, or key-man insurance on the life of, Mr. Hicks. The unexpected loss of the services of Mr. Hicks could have a detrimental effect on us. 14 Table of Contents Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following our initial business combination. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The role of our key personnel in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following a business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a company regulated by the SEC, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following a business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous. Our key personnel may be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to the company after the consummation of the business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. However, we believe the ability of such individuals to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. There is no certainty, however, that any of our key personnel will remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you that any of our key personnel will remain in senior management or advisory positions with the combined company. The determination as to whether any of our key personnel will remain with the combined company will be made at the time of our initial business combination. The officers and directors of an acquisition candidate may resign upon consummation of a business combination. The role of an acquisition candidate’s key personnel upon the consummation of a business combination cannot be ascertained at this time. Although we contemplate that certain members of an acquisition candidate’s management team will remain associated with the acquisition candidate following a business combination, it is possible that members of the management of an acquisition candidate will not wish to remain in place. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Certain of our officers and directors are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Certain of our officers and directors are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. In the event that any of our officers becomes aware of a business combination opportunity that falls within the line of business of any entity to which he or she has pre-existing fiduciary or contractual obligations, he or she may be required to present such business combination opportunity to such entity prior to presenting such business combination opportunity to us. 15 Table of Contents Each of Mr. Hicks, Joseph B. Armes, our president, chief executive officer, chief financial officer and one of our directors, Eric C. Neuman, a senior vice president of our company, Robert M. Swartz, a senior vice president of our company, Christina Weaver Vest, a senior vice president of our company, Thomas O. Hicks, Jr., our secretary and one of our vice presidents, and Mack H. Hicks, a vice president of our company, is an officer, member or partner of Hicks Holdings LLC (“Hicks Holdings”) or Hicks Equity Partners LLC (“Hicks Equity Partners”). Hicks Holdings is a holding company for sports, real estate and private equity investments of Thomas O. Hicks and his family, and Hicks Equity Partners is an entity engaged in the private equity business. The controlling member and manager of Hicks Equity Partners is Thomas O. Hicks. Each of such officers will be required to offer all suitable business opportunities with a fair market value less than $200 million to Hicks Holdings or Hicks Equity Partners prior to presenting them to us; provided that in order to minimize potential conflicts of interest which may arise from multiple corporate affiliations, each of our officers has agreed, until the earliest of our initial business combination, our liquidation or such time as he or she ceases to be an officer, to present to our company for our consideration, prior to presentation to any other entity, any business opportunity with a fair market value of $200 million or more, subject to any pre-existing fiduciary or contractual obligations he or she might have. Each of our officers, other than Thomas O. Hicks, Jr., currently has certain relevant fiduciary duties or contractual obligations, which may take priority over his or her duties to us. Our officers may become involved with subsequent blank check companies similar to our company, although they have agreed not to participate in the formation of, or become an officer or director of, any blank check company that may complete a business combination with an entity other than with an entity engaged in the energy industry as its principal business or whose principal business operations are conducted outside of the United States or Canada until we have entered into a definitive agreement regarding our initial business combination or we have failed to complete our initial business combination by September 28, 2009. As discussed above, our officers may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe certain fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor or that a potential target business would not be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us. Certain of our directors own shares of our common stock issued prior to our initial public offering and an entity affiliated with our officers owns shares of our common stock and warrants issued prior to our initial public offering and purchased additional warrants simultaneously with the closing of our initial public offering. These shares and warrants will not participate in liquidation distributions if our initial business combination is not consummated and, therefore, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for our initial business combination. Certain members of our board of directors own shares of our common stock and warrants and all of our officers are affiliated with an entity that owns shares of our common stock or warrants. Our sponsor, HH-HACI, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, purchased 10,000,000 founder’s units (which were increased to 11,500,000 founder’s units as a result of a stock split approved by our board of directors in July 2007 and later increased to 13,524,000 units after giving effect to the August 2007 transfer discussed below and a stock dividend declared by our board of directors in September 2007). In August 2007, our sponsor transferred an aggregate of 230,000 founder’s units (which were increased to 276,000 units as a result of the September 2007 stock dividend) to William Cunningham, William Montgomery, Brian Mulroney and William F. Quinn, each of whom is a member of our board of directors. Our sponsor also purchased 7,000,000 sponsor warrants simultaneously with the closing of our initial public offering. Mr. Hicks is the sole member of HH-HACI GP, LLC, the general partner of our sponsor. In addition, Mr. Hicks, Mr. Armes, Mr. Neuman, Mr. Swartz, Ms. Vest, Thomas O. Hicks, Jr. and Mack H. Hicks are each limited partners of our sponsor. Our sponsor and each of Messrs. Cunningham, Montgomery, Mulroney and Quinn have waived their rights to receive distributions with respect to the founder’s shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Accordingly, the founder’s shares, as well as the founder’s warrants, will be worthless if we do not consummate our initial business combination by September 28, 2009. The sponsor warrants will also expire worthless if we fail to consummate our initial business combination within such time period. Furthermore, the $7 million purchase price of the sponsor warrants will be held in the trust account and will be distributed to our public stockholders in the event of our liquidation. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. NYSE Alternext US may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. 16 Table of Contents Our securities are listed on NYSE Alternext US (formerly, American Stock Exchange), a national securities exchange. However, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on NYSE Alternext US in the future prior to an initial business combination. Additionally, in connection with our initial business combination, it is likely that NYSE Alternext US will require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If NYSE Alternext US delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. On February 10, 2009, we received a deficiency letter from NYSE Alternext US indicating that we are not in compliance with the annual stockholder meeting requirements of Section 704 of the NYSE Alternext US Company Guide (the “Company Guide”), because we did not hold an annual stockholders meeting during the year ended December 31, 2008. We have been afforded the opportunity to submit a plan to NYSE Alternext US by March 10, 2009, which we have done, advising NYSE Alternext US of actions taken, or to be taken, to bring us into compliance with Section 704 of the Company Guide (the “Plan”) by August 11, 2009. We submitted our Plan on March 5, 2009, but if our Plan is not accepted by NYSE Alternext US, we may be subject to delisting procedures. NYSE Alternext US will evaluate our Plan and make a determination as to whether we have made a reasonable demonstration in the Plan of an ability to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by August 11, 2009 (the “Plan Period”). If our Plan is accepted, we should be able to continue listing during the Plan Period up to August 11, 2009. However, if we do not make progress consistent with the Plan during the Plan Period or we are not in compliance with the listing standards at the conclusion of the Plan Period, NYSE Alternext US staff may initiate delisting procedures as appropriate. We explain in the Plan we submitted that, pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we must acquire, or acquire control of, through a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination one or more businesses or assets by September 28, 2009 pursuant to a transaction approved by our stockholders, or we will dissolve and liquidate. As a result, we must hold a stockholder meeting prior to September 28, 2009 at which such a transaction is approved, or we will liquidate. Accordingly, in our Plan we requested that NYSE Alternext US defer the required August 11, 2009 stockholder meeting until September 28, 2009. However, we cannot guarantee that NYSE Alternext US will accept our proposal to delay the required stockholder meeting date until September 28, 2009. In the event NYSE Alternext US does not grant the requested delayed date, we may be required to hold a stockholder meeting by August 11, 2009. We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business, which may have a limited number of products or services. Our initial business combination must be with a target business having a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) at the time of such acquisition, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several businesses or assets at the same time. However, we may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. By consummating an initial business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: 17 Table of Contents • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to an initial business combination. Alternatively, if we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses or assets, which are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the initial business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. We may seek to effect our initial business combination with one or more privately held companies, which may present certain challenges to us including the lack of available information about these companies. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may seek to effect our initial business combination with a privately held company. By definition, very little public information exists about private companies, and we could be required to make our decision on whether to pursue a potential initial business combination on the basis of limited information. We may be dependent on a single business or asset that is likely to operate in a non-diverse industry or segment and which may have a limited number of products or services. The prospects for our success may be solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, property or asset that we acquire through our initial business combination. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. The ability of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to consummate a desirable initial business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek the approval of our public stockholders for our initial business combination, each public stockholder will have the right to elect to convert its shares for cash if such public stockholder votes against our initial business combination and our initial business combination is approved and completed and the public stockholder holds its shares through the closing of our initial business combination. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and elect to convert its shares by notifying us of such election to convert at the appropriate time, as described in the proxy materials. We will be permitted to proceed with our initial business combination if we are able to confirm that we have sufficient funds to pay the consideration to close the business combination plus all sums due to our public stockholders who vote against the business combination and duly exercise their right to elect to convert their shares for cash. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate an initial business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may be required to incur an amount of leverage that is not optimal for our business combination. In addition, we will not consummate an initial business combination if holders of more than 30% (minus one share) of our outstanding shares of common stock purchased in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights. These restrictions may limit our ability to consummate the most attractive business combinations available to us. We may proceed with an initial business combination even if public stockholders owning up to 30% (minus one share) of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights. This requirement may make it easier for us to have an initial business combination approved over stockholder dissent. We may proceed with an initial business combination as long as public stockholders owning no more than 30% (minus one share) of the shares sold in our initial public offering both vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, public stockholders holding up to 16,559,999 shares of our common stock may both vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights, and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. We have set the conversion percentage at 30% (minus one share) in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a block of our stock will be able to stop us from completing a business combination that is 18 Table of Contents otherwise approved by a large majority of our public stockholders. However, this may have the effect of making it easier for us to have a business combination approved over stockholder dissent than other blank check companies. While there are some other offerings similar to ours which include conversion provisions greater than 20%, a 20% threshold is common for offerings similar to ours. Because we permit a larger number of stockholders to exercise their conversion rights, it may be easier for us to obtain stockholder approval of an initial business combination than other blank check companies. Our initial business combination may require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price. In such case, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our initial business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Additionally, even if our business combination does not require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, if a significant number of stockholders exercise their conversion rights, we will have less cash available to use in furthering our business plans following a business combination and may need to arrange third party financing. We have not taken any steps to secure third party financing for either situation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such third party financing on terms favorable to us or at all. Because of our limited resources and structure, we may not be able to consummate an attractive initial business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from entities in addition to blank check companies having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination with a target business by September 28, 2009, we will be forced to liquidate. We may be unable to obtain additional financing to complete our initial business combination or to fund the operations and growth of a target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering, including the interest earned on the proceeds held in the trust account that may be available to us for a business combination, will be sufficient to allow us to consummate our initial business combination, because we have not yet identified any prospective target business we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of our initial business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or the obligation to repurchase for cash a significant number of shares from stockholders who elect conversion in connection with our initial business combination, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate our initial business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular initial business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. Even if we do not need additional financing to consummate our initial business combination we may require such financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our sponsor, which is an entity controlled by Thomas O. Hicks, our founder and chairman of the board, controls a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our sponsor (an entity controlled by Mr. Hicks) owns 19.6% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock and Mr. Hicks is required to purchase, directly or through a controlled affiliate, 2,000,000 co-investment units in connection with our initial business combination (a portion of which co-investment units may be assigned by Mr. Hicks in limited circumstances). Our board of directors is and will be divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It may be unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the 19 Table of Contents current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our sponsor, because of its ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our sponsor will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of our initial business combination. In the event that our initial stockholders purchase any additional shares of our common stock, they will vote any such shares acquired by them in favor of our initial business combination and in favor of an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for our perpetual existence in connection with a vote to approve our initial business combination. Furthermore, in the event that Mr. Hicks or our officers acquire shares of our common stock, we anticipate that they would vote such shares in favor of our initial business combination. Thus, additional purchases of shares of our common stock by our directors, officers or initial stockholders would likely allow them to exert additional influence over the approval of our initial business combination. Factors that would be considered in making such additional purchases would include consideration of the current trading price of our common stock. Another factor that would be taken into consideration would be that any such additional purchases would likely increase the chances that our initial business combination would be approved. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Prior to our initial public offering, we issued 13,800,000 founder’s warrants to our initial stockholders. We issued warrants to purchase 55,200,000 shares of our common stock as part of the units initially offered and, simultaneously with the closing of our initial public offering, we issued in a private placement sponsor warrants to purchase 7,000,000 shares of common stock. The founder’s warrants and the sponsor warrants are identical to the warrants sold as part of the units in our initial public offering except that: (i) they will not be redeemable by us so long as they are held by, as applicable, our initial stockholders, our sponsor or their permitted transferees; (ii) they (including the common stock issuable upon exercise of these warrants) may not, subject to certain limited exceptions, be transferred, assigned or sold by the sponsor until 180 days after the completion of our initial business combination; and (iii) may be exercised by the holders on a cashless basis. In addition, the founder’s warrants may not be exercised unless and until: (A) the last sale price of our common stock equals or exceeds $13.75 for any 20 days within any 30 trading day period beginning 90 days after our initial business combination; and (B) there is an effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. Thomas O. Hicks, our founder and chairman of the board, also committed to purchase, directly or through one of his controlled affiliates, 2,000,000 co-investment units consisting of an aggregate of 2,000,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 2,000,000 shares of our common stock in a private placement that will occur immediately prior to our completion of our initial business combination, which will not occur until after the signing of a definitive business combination agreement and the approval of the initial business combination by holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering; provided that holders of no more than 30% (minus one share) of our outstanding shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering elect to exercise their conversion rights. The co-investment warrants will be identical to the warrants sold in our initial public offering, except that (i) they will not be redeemable by us so long as they are held by Thomas O. Hicks, the relevant controlled affiliate or their permitted transferees and (ii) with limited exceptions, they (including the common stock issuable upon exercise of these warrants) may not, subject to certain limited exceptions, be transferred, assigned or sold until 180 days after the completion of our initial business combination. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect our initial business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete our initial business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate our initial business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities and on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements, we may not be able to complete an initial business combination with some prospective target businesses. We will provide stockholders with audited financial statements of the prospective target business as part of the proxy solicitation materials sent to stockholders to assist them in assessing the target business. In all likelihood, these financial statements will need to be prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. We cannot assure you that any particular target business identified by us as a potential acquisition candidate will have financial statements prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles or that the potential target business will be able to prepare its financial statements in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting 20 Table of Contents principles. To the extent that this requirement cannot be met, we may not be able to acquire the proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2008. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm report on management’s evaluation of our system of internal controls. A target company may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Under Delaware law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains certain requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering that apply to us until the consummation of our initial business combination. Specifically, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that: • upon the closing of our initial public offering, approximately $536.1 million (including $7 million from the sale of the sponsor warrants and approximately $17.4 million in deferred underwriting commissions), was placed into the trust account; • we shall submit any proposed business combination to our stockholders for approval prior to consummating our initial business combination; • our public stockholders will have the right to convert their shares of common stock into cash in accordance with the conversion rights described below; • public stockholders who exercise their conversion rights and vote against our initial business combination may convert their shares into a pro rata share of the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account; • we will consummate a business combination only if it has a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the initial amount held in trust (excluding deferred underwriting commissions of approximately $17.4 million); • prior to our initial business combination, we may not issue additional stock that participates in any manner in the proceeds of the trust account, or that votes as a class with the common stock sold in our initial public offering on a business combination; • we will consummate our initial business combination only if: (i) the initial business combination is approved by a majority of votes cast by our public stockholders at a duly held stockholders meeting; (ii) an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for our perpetual existence is approved by holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock; (iii) public stockholders owning no more than 30% (minus one share) of our outstanding shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering both vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights; and (iv) we have confirmed that we have sufficient cash resources to pay both (x) the consideration required to close our initial business combination, and (y) the cash due to public stockholders who vote against the business combination and who exercise their conversion rights; and 21 Table of Contents • if we do not consummate our initial business combination by September 28, 2009, our corporate purposes and powers will immediately thereupon be limited to acts and activities related to liquidating and winding up our affairs, including liquidation, and we will not be able to engage in any other business activities. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires that we obtain the vote of our board of directors and the unanimous vote of our stockholders, by a vote of all outstanding shares at a meeting of stockholders, to amend the above-described provisions. However, the validity of unanimous consent provisions under Delaware law has not been settled. This unanimous consent requirement is more stringent than the minimum stockholder consent requirement under Delaware law, and a court could conclude that the unanimous consent requirement constitutes a practical prohibition on amendment in violation of the stockholders’ implicit rights to amend the corporate charter. In that case, the above-described provisions would be amendable without unanimous consent and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include a staggered board of directors and the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preference shares, which may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. There may be tax consequences to our business combinations that may adversely affect us. While we expect to undertake any merger or acquisition so as to minimize taxes both to the acquired business and/or asset and us, such business combination might not meet the statutory requirements of a tax-free reorganization, or the parties might not obtain the intended tax-free treatment upon a transfer of shares or assets. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of substantial taxes. We and Graham Packaging have incurred and expect to incur significant costs associated with the Graham Transaction, whether or not the Graham Transaction is completed and the incurrence of these costs will reduce the amount of cash available to be used for other corporate purposes. Further, if the Graham Transaction is not consummated, resources spent by us to research the Graham Transaction will have been wasted, which could materially adversely affect our subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. We and Graham Packaging have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs associated with the Graham Transaction. These expenses, coupled with reduced interest income attributable to recent decreases in interest rates, would reduce the amount of cash available to the Graham IPO Corp., as the surviving company, for other corporate purposes including the repayment of debt. As of December 31, 2008, $5.0 million of the $6.6 million in trust income available to us for working capital expenses had been withdrawn by us from our trust account. Furthermore, declines in the financial markets occurring during the second half of 2008 and first quarter of 2009 may have the effect of making it more difficult to consummate the Graham Transaction. In the event the Graham Transaction is not consummated, the incurrence of costs relating to the Graham Transaction will have had the effect of reducing the amount of cash available to us for other corporate purposes, including pursuit of other potential business combinations. If a decision is made to not complete the Graham Transaction, the costs incurred up to that point for the Graham Transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, we may fail to consummate the Graham Transaction for any number of reasons including those beyond our control, such as if the number of our public stockholders who vote against the Graham Transaction and opt to have us repurchase their stock represent more than 30% (minus one share) of the outstanding shares of our common stock sold in our initial public offering. If our due diligence investigation of Graham Packaging was inadequate, then stockholders of GPC following the Graham Transaction could lose some or all of their investment. Even though we conducted a due diligence investigation of Graham Packaging, we cannot be sure that this diligence surfaced all material issues that may be present inside Graham Packaging or its business, or that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence, or that factors outside of Graham Packaging and its business and outside of its control will not later arise. Even if our due diligence successfully identifies certain risks, 22 Table of Contents unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis. We, and after the Graham Transaction, GPC, may redeem its stockholders’ unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to them, thereby making their warrants worthless. We have, and after any completion of the Graham Transaction, GPC, would have, the ability to redeem outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that (i) the last reported sale price of the common stock equals or exceeds $13.75 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading-day period ending on the third business day prior to proper notice of such redemption and (ii) on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the warrants, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force our warrant holders: (i) to exercise their warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for them to do so; (ii) to sell their warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold their warrants; or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of their warrants. None of the warrants held by our founder will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by the initial stockholders or their permitted transferees and none of the warrants held by our sponsor will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by our sponsor or its permitted transferees, and none of the co-investment warrants will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by Mr. Hicks, any relevant controlled affiliate of Mr. Hicks that purchases the co-investment units, or their permitted transferees. In the event that the Graham Transaction is consummated, GPC will assume the rights and obligations of us under the warrants pursuant to the Graham Transaction. The price of Graham IPO Corp.’s shares after any completion of the Graham Transaction may be volatile. The price of Graham IPO Corp.’s shares after any completion of the Graham Transaction may be volatile, and may fluctuate due to factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in Graham IPO Corp.’s quarterly and annual results and those of its publicly held competitors; • mergers and strategic alliances in the packaging industry; • market conditions in the industry; • changes in government regulation; • fluctuations in Graham IPO Corp.’s quarterly revenues and earnings and those of its publicly held competitors; • shortfalls in Graham IPO Corp.’s operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts; • investor sentiment toward the stocks of packaging companies in general and plastic packaging companies in particular; • announcements concerning Graham IPO Corp. or its competitors; and • the general state of the securities markets. 23 Table of Contents We may waive one or more of the conditions to the Graham Transaction without resoliciting stockholder approval for the Graham Transaction. We may agree to waive, in whole or in part, some of the conditions to its obligations to complete the Graham Transaction, to the extent permitted by applicable laws. Our board of directors would evaluate the materiality of any waiver to determine whether amendment of the proxy statement/prospectus and resolicitation of proxies is warranted. In some instances, if our board of directors determines that a waiver is not sufficiently material to warrant resolicitation of stockholders, we have the discretion to complete the Graham Transaction without seeking further stockholder approval. Following any consummation of the Graham Transaction, Graham IPO Corp. would have anti-takeover provisions in its organizational documents that may discourage a change of control. Following any consummation of the Graham Transaction, certain provisions of Graham IPO Corp.’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by stockholders. These provisions provide for, among other things: • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • the removal of directors only for cause and only with the affirmative vote of holders of at least a majority of the shares of Graham IPO Corp. Common Stock entitled to vote in the election of directors; • advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at annual meetings; and • no ability for stockholders to call special stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may, under certain circumstances, make it more difficult for a person who would be an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as a person with 15% or more of a corporation’s outstanding voting stock) to effect a “business combination” (defined generally as mergers, consolidations and certain other transactions, including sales, leases or other dispositions of assets with an aggregate market value equal to 10% or more of the aggregate market value of the corporation) with the corporation for a three-year period. These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Graham IPO Corp., even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many stockholders. As a result, stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. The cash available for Graham IPO Corp. to pay down debt will be reduced if our stockholders exercise their right to convert their shares into cash. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, holders of shares issued in our initial public offering may vote against the Graham Transaction and demand that we convert their shares into cash. We will not consummate the Graham Transaction if holders of 30% or more shares of common stock issued in our initial public offering exercise these conversion rights. To the extent the Graham Transaction is consummated and our public stockholders properly exercise their conversion rights, there will be a corresponding reduction in the amount of funds available to Graham IPO Corp., as the surviving company, following any completion of the Graham Transaction and the amount of cash that could be used to pay down debt under Graham Packaging’s credit agreement, as contemplated by the Purchase Agreement. As of December 31, 2008, assuming the Graham Transaction proposal is adopted, the maximum amount of funds that could be disbursed to our stockholders upon the exercise of their conversion rights is approximately $163.3 million, or approximately 30% of the funds then held in the trust account. The New York Stock Exchange may fail to list Graham IPO Corp.’s securities on its exchange, or delist Graham IPO Corp.’s securities from quotation on its exchange in the future, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in its securities and subject Graham IPO Corp. to additional trading restrictions. Graham IPO Corp. intends to list its securities on the New York Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange, if the Graham Transaction is consumated. However, Graham IPO Corp. cannot assure you that its securities would be listed, or would continue to be listed, on the New York Stock Exchange, following the consummation of the Graham Transaction. 24 Table of Contents Additionally, Graham IPO Corp. would be required to file an initial listing application for the New York Stock Exchange and meet the New York Stock Exchange’s initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. Graham IPO Corp. cannot be certain that it would be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the New York Stock Exchange fails to list Graham IPO Corp.’s securities on its exchange, or delists Graham IPO Corp.’s securities from trading on its exchange in the future, Graham IPO Corp. could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for its securities; • a determination that its common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in its common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for its company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources both before and after any consummation of the Graham Transaction. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require that Graham IPO Corp. evaluate and report on its system of internal controls and that Graham IPO Corp. have such system of internal controls. If Graham IPO Corp. fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls, it could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm Graham IPO Corp.’s business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that Graham IPO Corp.’s independent registered public accounting firm report on management’s evaluation of Graham IPO Corp.’s system of internal controls. The development of the internal controls in order to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete the Graham Transaction. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over its financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm Graham IPO Corp.’s operating results or cause Graham IPO Corp. to fail to meet its reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in Graham IPO Corp.’s reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of Graham IPO Corp.’s stock. There may be tax consequences to the Graham Transaction that may adversely affect the parties to the Purchase Agreement. While it is expected that the Graham Transaction will be structured so as to minimize taxes to the parties to the Graham Transaction, the Graham Transaction might not meet the statutory requirements of a tax-free reorganization, or the parties might not obtain the intended tax-free treatment upon a transfer of shares or assets. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of substantial taxes. The Blackstone Group, L.P. and affiliates of Thomas O. Hicks would hold a significant ownership interest in Graham IPO Corp. following any closing of the Graham Transaction and may have conflicts of interest with Graham IPO Corp. in the future. After giving effect to any completion of the Graham Transaction, affiliates of The Blackstone Group, L.P. (“Blackstone”) would be the largest stockholder of Graham IPO Corp. and would be in a position to exert considerable influence over Graham IPO Corp., including matters related to the appointment of management and the entering into of mergers, sales of substantially all assets and other extraordinary transactions. In addition, Blackstone, as well as affiliates of Thomas O. Hicks, who are expected after any closing of the Graham Transaction to comprise the second largest stockholder, are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with Graham IPO Corp. and pursue competing acquisition opportunities. In addition, after giving effect to the Graham Transaction, various affiliates of Blackstone, which controls a principal equity holder of Graham Packaging, would be required by Graham Operating Company’s existing credit agreement to be the stockholders holding, in the aggregate, the single largest share of the voting power attributable to Graham IPO Corp. Common Stock. In the event that a party acquires beneficial ownership representing voting power in Graham IPO Corp. 25 Table of Contents greater than the voting power represented by the equity interests beneficially owned by Blackstone and its affiliates, it may trigger an event of default under the Graham Packaging’s credit agreement. Graham IPO Corp. expects to record a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, and may never realize the full value of its intangible assets. In connection with any consummation of the Graham Transaction, Graham IPO Corp. would record a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition and, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, will be reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products and services sold by Graham IPO Corp., and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to results of operations. Depending on future circumstances, it is possible that Graham IPO Corp. may never realize the full value of its intangible assets. Any future determination of impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets would have an adverse effect on Graham IPO Corp.’s financial position and results of operations. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of Graham IPO Corp. Common Stock, warrants and units could cause the price of Graham IPO Corp. Common Stock, warrants and units to decline. Upon any closing of the Graham Transaction, Blackstone, our sponsor and the other Sellers would own a substantial amount of Graham IPO Corp. Common Stock (in addition to warrants). In the future, such shares may be sold from time to time in the public market pursuant to the registration rights to be granted in connection with the Graham Transaction or pursuant to Rule 144. Such sales may commence after six months or 180 days after the closing in the case of Blackstone and the Sponsor, respectively, and after three months after the closing in the case of certain other Sellers. The sale of these shares or the availability for future sale of these shares could adversely affect the market price of the Graham IPO Corp. Common Stock, warrants and units and could impair the future ability of the Graham IPO Corp. to raise capital through offerings of Graham IPO Corp. Common Stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 