Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below and you should take these risks into account in making a decision to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or which management believes are immaterial, may also impair our operations. RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We are a development stage company and have a limited operating history. Our future prospects should be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving markets such as the market for our current product and future products, if any, in the United States. We will continue to encounter risks and difficulties that companies at a similar stage of development frequently experience, including the potential failure to: ● Offer products to attract customers; ● Develop new products; ● Increase awareness of our brand and develop customer loyalty; ● Respond to competitive market conditions; ● Respond to changes in our regulatory environment; ● Manage risks associated with intellectual property rights; ● Maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; and ● Attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. If we are unable to address any or all of the foregoing risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. MYO-T12 is currently our sole product and we are highly dependent on the successful marketing and sales of MYO-T12. There is no assurance that we will be able to develop any additional products. MYO-T12 is currently our sole product. In 2011, our revenues for this product were only$99,475. We may fail to successfully market and promote MTO-T12. Successfully marketing and promoting products such as MTO-T12 is a complex and uncertain process, dependent on the efforts of management, outside consultants and general economic conditions, among other things. Any factors that adversely impact the marketing and sales of MYO-T12 including, but not limited to, competition, acceptance in the marketplace, or delays related to production and distribution or regulatory issues, will likely have a negative impact on our cash flow and operating results. The commercial success of our product also depends upon: ● the quality and acceptance of other competing brands and products; ● creating effective distribution channels and brand awareness; ● critical reviews; ● the availability of alternatives; ● general economic conditions; and ● other tangible and intangible factors. Each of these factors is subject to change and cannot be predicted with certainty. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing or marketing any potential enhancements to MYO-T12 or any other products. Our inability to successfully market our current products and/or successfully develop and market additional products, or any enhancements to our products which we may develop, would have a material adverse effect on the our business and results of operations. 8 Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a “going concern” opinion. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to generate profitable operations in the future and/or to obtain the necessary financing to meet our obligations and repay our liabilities arising from normal business operations when they come due. We plan to continue to provide for our capital requirements by issuing additional equity. No assurance can be given that additional capital will be available when required or on terms acceptable to us. We also cannot give assurance that we will achieve sufficient revenues in the future to achieve profitability and cash flow positive operations. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted at this time and there are no assurances that, if achieved, we will have sufficient funds to execute our business plan or to generate positive operating results. Our independent registered public accounting firm has indicated that these matters, among others, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have a history of losses and cash flow deficits, and we expect to continue to operate at a loss and to have negative cash flow for the foreseeable future, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. We have incurred net losses since our inception. At December 31, 2011, we had cumulative net losses of approximately $5,731,246. We also had negative cash flow from start-up activities. As such, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Historically, we have funded our operations from the proceeds from the sale of equity securities, and to a lesser extent, internally generated funds. Our growth strategy is to implement our strategic business plan, which is likely to result in additional losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future. We cannot give assurances that we will ever become profitable. We will need to raise additional funds in the future to grow our business, which funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise funds as needed, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. We expect that our current funds, as of March 30, 2012, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to fund our projected operations through the second quarter of 2012. We will require substantial funds to fund operating expenses, fund research and development activities, develop manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities and cover public company costs. We may seek additional funding through public or private financing or through collaborative arrangements with strategic partners. The extent of our capital needs will depend on numerous factors, including (i) our profitability, (ii) the release of competitive products by our competition, (iii) the level of investment in research and development and (iv) the amount of our capital expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain capital in the future to meet our needs. If we cannot obtain additional funding, we may be required to limit our marketing efforts, decrease or eliminate capital expenditures or cease all or a portion of our operations, including any research and development activities. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, any available additional financing may not be adequate to meet our goals. Any equity financing would result in dilution to stockholders. Even if we are able to locate a source of additional capital, we may not be able to negotiate terms and conditions for receiving the additional capital that are acceptable to us. Any future capital investments could dilute or otherwise materially adversely affects the holdings or rights of our existing shareholders. In addition, new equity or convertible debt securities issued by us to obtain financing could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. There is no assurance that any additional financing will be available, or if available, will be on terms favorable to us. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We need to manage growth in operations to maximize our potential growth and achieve our expected revenues. In order to maximize potential growth in our current market, we believe that we must fully utilize our marketing operations. This will require a constant flow of working capital. Engaging the full capacity of our limited staff may place a significant strain on our management, operations, and accounting and information systems. We expect that we will need to continue to improve our financial controls, operating procedures and management information system. The failure to manage our growth could adversely affect our business and operations. 9 If we are not able to implement our strategies to achieve our business objectives, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. Our principle objectives are to: (i) deepen the scientific understanding of the activity of our initial product MYO-T12, specifically as a modulator of the regulatory peptide myostatin, (ii) initiate a research and development program to evaluate myostatin modulation in a range of disorders, (iii) identify other products and technologies which may broaden our portfolio and define a business development strategy to protect, enhance and accelerate the growth of our products and (iv) create a marketing and sales apparatus internally and through alliances to maximize near-term and future revenues. Our business plan is based on circumstances currently prevailing and the bases and assumptions that certain circumstances will or will not occur as well as the inherent risk and uncertainties involved in various stages of development. However there is no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our strategies or that our strategies, even if implemented, will lead to the successful achievement of our objectives. If we are not able to successfully implement our strategies, our business operations and financial performance may be adversely affected. If we lose the services of our key personnel, we may be unable to replace them, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success largely depends on the continued skills, experience, efforts and policies of our management, directors and other key personnel and our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees. In particular, the services of Carlon Colker, MD, FACN, our Chief Medical Officer, are integral to the creation of our current and future products and the execution of our business strategy. Dr. Colker maintains a separate medical practice and other activities relating to Peak and does not devote his full-time to our business. In addition, his obligations to his medical practice and certain of his other activities take precedence over his obligations to our business. Furthermore, Dr. Colker is not subject to any non-competition or non-solicitation restrictions subsequent to the termination of his employment with us. In addition, certain of our directors, including Dr. Robert Hariri and Dr. Louis Aronne, have significant research and development experience and are integral to the creation of our future products and the execution of our business strategy. If one or more of our key employees or directors leaves our employment, we will need to find a replacement with the combination of skills and attributes necessary to execute our strategy. Because competition for skilled employees is intense, and the process of finding qualified individuals can be lengthy and expensive, we believe that the loss of the services of key personnel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will continue to retain such personnel. In addition, we do not presently have a Chief Financial Officer who is familiar with the accounting and reporting requirements of a U.S. publicly-listed company. No assurances can be given that we will be able to identify or afford the financial requirements of qualified candidates. The position of Chief Financial Officer of a U.S. publicly-listed company is critical to the operations of such a company, and our failure to fill this position in a timely and effective manner will negatively impact our business. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer demands. Our success depends on the appeal of our current and future products to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change. If our current and future products do not meet consumer demands, our sales may decline. In addition, our growth depends upon our ability to develop new products through product line extensions and product modifications, which involve numerous risks. We may not be able to accurately identify consumer preferences, translate our knowledge into customer accepted products or successfully integrate these products with our existing product platform or operations. We may also experience increased expenses incurred in connection with product development, marketing and advertising that are not subsequently supported by a sufficient level of sales, which would negatively affect our margins. Furthermore, product development may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could cause sales of our existing product to suffer. We cannot assure you that newly developed products will contribute favorably to our operating results. If our current or future products fail to properly perform, our business could suffer due to increased costs and reduced income. Failure of our current or future products to meet consumer expectations could result in decreased sales, delayed market acceptance of our products, increased accounts receivable and divert our resources to reformulation or alternative products. Intense competition from existing and new entities may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We face competitors that will attempt to create, or are already creating, products that are similar to our current and future products. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly longer operating histories and significantly greater managerial, financial, marketing, technical and other competitive resources, as well as greater name recognition, than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to customers or adopt more aggressive pricing policies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. 10 Our business is dependent on continually developing or acquiring new and advanced products and processes and our failure to do so may cause us to lose our competitiveness and may adversely affect our operating results. To remain competitive in our industry, we believe it is important to continually develop new and advanced products and processes. There is no assurance that our competitors’ new products and processes will not render our existing products obsolete or non-competitive. Our competitiveness in the marketplace relies upon our ability to enhance our current products, introduce new products, and develop and implement new technologies and processes. Our failure to evolve and/or develop new or enhanced products may cause us to lose our competitiveness in the marketplace and adversely affect our operating results. Adverse publicity or consumer perception of our products and any similar products distributed by others could harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales and revenues. We are highly dependent upon positive consumer perceptions of the safety and quality of our products as well as similar products distributed by our competitors. Consumer perception of nutritional maximization products and our products in particular can be substantially influenced by scientific research or findings, national media attention and other publicity about product use. Adverse publicity from such sources regarding the safety, quality or efficacy of neutraceuticals, in general, and our products in particular, could harm our reputation and results of operations. The mere publication of reports asserting that such products may be harmful or questioning their efficacy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, regardless of whether such reports are scientifically supported or whether the claimed harmful effects would be present at the dosages recommended for such products. We may be exposed to material product liability claims, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our reputation and business. As a marketer and distributor of products designed for human consumption, we are subject to product liability claims if the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of these ingredients could occur. The cost of defending against such claims can be substantially higher than the cost of settlement even when such claims are without merit. The high cost to defend or settle product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover our legal claims or other losses that we may incur in the future. We expect to maintain insurance, including property, general and product liability and other forms of insurance to protect ourselves against potential loss exposures. In the future, insurance coverage may not be available at adequate levels or on adequate terms to cover potential losses. If insurance coverage is inadequate or unavailable, we may face claims that exceed coverage limits or that are not covered, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our operating results. The scientific support for our products is subject to uncertainty. Our research, scientific knowledge and clinical testing supporting the benefits of our products are an essential element of our ability to legally market our products. There is, however, the risk that new or undiscovered information may become available that may undermine or refute our scientific support. In addition, our clinical testing of MYO-T12 has been limited in scope and additional testing may reveal deficiencies and side effects that we are currently unaware of. A reduction in the credibility of our scientific support for the nutritional benefits of our products could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial conditions. If side effects associated with our current or future products are indentified, we may be required to withdraw such products from the market, change the labeling of our product and/or be subject to product liability claims. There is a potential for all ingested products to result in side effects in certain consumers. Although we are not aware of any adverse effects on the health of consumers, if any such side effects are identified after marketing and sale of the product, the product may be required to be withdrawn from the market or require a change in labeling. If a product liability claim is brought against us, it may, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, result in damage to our reputation, breach of contracts with consumers, decreased demand for our products, costly litigation and loss of revenue. 11 We are dependent on third-party suppliers and a single manufacturer. We currently rely on third-party suppliers to provide us with the raw materials for our products. In addition, we depend on one manufacturer (located in Germany) to manufacture our products. If our suppliers cannot provide us with the required raw materials in a timely fashion or our sole manufacturer is unable or unwilling to produce sufficient quantities of our products, our business and revenues will be adversely affected. A shortage in the supply of, or a price increase in, raw materials could increase our costs or adversely affect our sales and revenues. All of the raw materials is sourced by our manufacturer from third-party suppliers with whom we do not, and our manufacturer may not, have significant long-term supply contracts. Any shortages in our raw materials could result in materially higher raw material prices and adversely affect our ability to outsource the manufacture of our product. Price increases from a supplier will affect our profitability if we are not able to pass price increases on to customers. The inability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or a material increase in the price of our raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our research and development may be costly and/or untimely, and there are no assurances that our research and development will either be successful or completed within the anticipated timeframe, if ever at all. Research and development may be costly and/or untimely, and there are no assurances that the Company's research and development will either be successful or completed within the anticipated timeframe, if at all. The continued research and development of MYO-T12 and our future pharmaceutical and other products is important to the Company's success. In addition, the development of new products requires significant research, development and testing all of which require significant investment and resources. At this time, our resources are limited and our research and development activities are dependent upon our ability to raise capital which may not be possible. We may enter into agreements with third party vendors to engage in research and development for us. However, the failure of the third-party research to perform under agreements entered into with us, or our failure to renew important research agreements with a third party, may delay or curtail our research and development efforts. The research and development of new products is costly and time consuming, and there are no assurances that our research and development will be successful. Even if a new product is developed, there is no assurance that it will be commercialized or result in sales. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights upon which our business relies, which could cause our assets to lose value. Our business depends and will continue to depend on our intellectual property, including our valuable brands, content, services and internally developed products. We believe our intellectual property rights are important to our continued success and our competitive position. However, we may be unable or unwilling to strictly enforce our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks, from infringement. In addition, we have not patented our intellectual property nor have we submitted a patent application to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for our product. Our failure to enforce our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands and product offerings and harm our business and future growth prospects. In addition, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our services, technology and other intellectual property, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will prevent any misappropriation or confusion among consumers and merchants, or unauthorized use of these rights. Advancements in technology have exacerbated the risk by making it easier to duplicate and disseminate intellectual property. In addition, as our business becomes more global in scope, we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights in a cost-effective manner in a multitude of jurisdictions with varying laws. If we are unable to procure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, we may not realize the full value of these assets, and our business may suffer. If we must litigate in the United States or elsewhere to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, such litigation may be costly and divert the attention of our management. We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages and could limit our ability to sell some of our products. We may become subject to intellectual property litigation or infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses to defend such claims, divert management’s attention or prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using some aspect of our current or future products. If we choose or are forced to settle such claims, we may be required to pay for a license to certain rights, pay royalties on both a retrospective and prospective basis, and/or cease manufacturing and selling certain infringing products. Future infringement claims against us by third parties may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 We have not developed independent corporate governance. We do not presently have an audit, compensation, or nominating committee. This lack of independent controls over our corporate affairs may result in conflicts of interest between our officers, directors and our shareholders. We presently have no policy to resolve such conflicts. As a result, our directors have the ability to, among other things, determine their own level of compensation. Until we comply with such corporate governance measures to form audit and other board committees in a manner consistent with rules of a national securities exchange, there is no assurance that we will not be subject to any conflicts of interest. As a result, potential investors may be reluctant to provide us with funds necessary to expand our operations. We may be subject to uncertain and costly compliance with government regulations. The manufacturing, processing, formulating, packaging, labeling, distributing, selling and advertising of our current and future products may be subject to regulation by one or more federal or state agencies. The most active regulation has been administered by The Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) which regulates our products pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the “FDCA”) and regulations promulgated thereunder. In addition, the Dietary Supplement and Health Education Act (DSHEA), which amended the FDCA, created a separate regulatory framework for the safety and labeling of dietary supplements. In particular, the FDA regulates the safety, manufacturing, labeling and distribution of dietary supplements, including vitamins, minerals and herbs. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) has overlapping jurisdiction with the FDA to regulate the labeling, promotion and advertising of dietary supplements and foods. In addition, private agencies and web sites, such as the Better Business Bureau or various dietary supplement industry associations provide voluntary claim advertising oversight. Compliance with applicable FDA, FTC and any state or local statute is critical. We believe that we are in compliance with applicable statutes. However, there can be no assurance that, should the FDA or FTC amend their guidelines or impose more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations, we would be able to comply with these new guidelines. We are unable to predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, nor can we predict what effect additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, would have on our business in the future. These regulations could, however, require the reformation of our product to meet new standards, market withdrawal or discontinuation of certain products not able to be reformulated. The Company requires its contract manufacturers to manufacture the product under Good Manufacturing Practices (GMPs), as specified by the FDA. The Company complies with the Adverse Event Reporting Act and has not been required to report any serious adverse event as defined in the statute. Food products, including dietary supplements, are deemed safe when used as directed. The Company’s product contains an egg extract ingredient. Since eggs are considered a “major food allergen” under the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act of 2004 , the labeling must note that the product contains egg yolk. Advertising of dietary supplement products is subject to regulation by the FTC under the Federal Trade Commission Act (the “FTCA”), which prohibits unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive trade acts or practices in or affecting commerce. The FTCA provides that the dissemination or the causing to be disseminated of any false advertising pertaining to foods, which would include dietary supplements, is an unfair or deceptive act or practice. Under the FTC's Substantiation Doctrine, an advertiser is required to have a “reasonable basis” for all objective product claims before the claims are made. All advertising is required to be truthful and not misleading. All testimonials are required to be typical of the results the consumer may expect when using the product as directed. Accordingly, we are required to have adequate substantiation of all material advertising claims made for our products. Failure to adequately substantiate claims may be considered either deceptive or unfair practices. We are unable to develop a naturally occurring mammalian follistatin-based myostatin inhibitor. Pursuant to Peak’s settlement agreement with a third party, such third party retained all rights to develop a naturally occurring mammalian follistatin-based myostatin inhibitor in which the follistatin is extracted from a single mammalian species. As a result, we are prohibited from developing a naturally occurring mammalian follistatin-based myostatin inhibitor, which may limit our ability to improve our current product or develop additional products. Our inability to develop a naturally occurring mammalian follistatin-based myostatin inhibitor could have an adverse effect on our operations. 13 We have limited recourse in the event there are any breaches of the representations, warranties and covenants under the Purchase Agreement. The Purchase Agreement provides that in the event of a breach of a representation, warranty or covenant of Peak, our sole remedy for such breach is against Peak. Accordingly, our inability to recover against Peak for any breach under the Purchase Agreement could have a material adverse effect on our operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Trading in our common stock over the last 12 months has been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as many of their shares as they want at prevailing prices. Shares of our common stock are traded on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “ATTH”. There has been limited trading in our shares over the last 12 months. If limited trading in the common stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell such shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Also, the sale of a large block of common stock could depress the market price of the common stock to a greater degree than a company that typically has a higher volume of trading of its securities. An active and visible trading market for our common stock may not develop. We cannot predict whether an active market for our common stock will develop in the future. In the absence of an active trading market: ● Investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations; ● Market visibility for our common stock may be limited; and ● A lack of visibility for our common stock may have a depressive effect on the market price for our common stock. The OTC Bulletin Board is an unorganized, inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than NASDAQ Capital Market or the NYSE Amex. The trading price of the common stock is expected to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, changes in analysts’ earnings estimates, announcements of innovations by us or our competitors, general conditions in the industry in which we operate and other factors. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may have a material or adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The market price for our stock may be volatile. The market price for our stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: ● actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; ● changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; ● conditions in neutraceutical and pharmaceutical markets; ● changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other neutraceutical companies; ● announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ● addition or departure of key personnel; ● intellectual property or other litigation; and ● general economic or political conditions. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock. 14 Our stockholders may experience significant dilution if future equity offerings are used to fund operations or acquire complementary businesses. If our future operations or acquisitions are financed through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders could experience significant dilution. In addition, securities issued in connection with future financing activities or potential acquisitions may have rights and preferences senior to the rights and preferences of our common stock. We also intend to establish an incentive compensation plan for our management and employees. We expect to grant options or warrants to purchase shares of our common stock to our directors, employees and consultants. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon the exercise of these options may result in dilution to our stockholders. Our current management can exert significant influence over us and make decisions that are not in the best interests of all stockholders. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own as a group approximately 27.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to assert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any change in control. In particular, this concentration of ownership of our outstanding shares of common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, or otherwise discouraging or preventing a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control. This, in turn, could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. It could also prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market prices for their shares of common stock. Moreover, the interests of the owners of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders and, accordingly, could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. Compliance with changing corporate governance regulations and public disclosure, and our management’s inexperience with such regulations, will result in additional expenses and creates a risk of non-compliance. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the public markets and public reporting. Our management team will need to invest significant time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which will lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, our management has limited experience with compliance with U.S. securities laws. This inexperience may cause us to fall out of compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, which could lead to enforcement action against us and a negative impact on our stock price. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. Accordingly, we are required to include a management report on our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our management has concluded that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our stock. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with the other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock,” and thereby be subject to additional sale and trading regulations that may make it more difficult to sell. Our common stock, which is currently and will be quoted for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, may be considered to be a “penny stock” if it does not qualify for one of the exemptions from the definition of “penny stock” under Section 3a51-1 of the Exchange Act. Our common stock may be a “penny stock” if it meets one or more of the following conditions: (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) it is NOT traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) it is not quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market, or even if so, has a price less than $5.00 per share; or (iv) is issued by a company that has been in business less than three years with net tangible assets less than $5 million. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers participating in sales of our common stock will be subject to the “penny stock” regulations set forth in Rules 15g-2 through 15g-9 promulgated under the Exchange Act. For example, Rule 15g-2 requires broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document at least two business days before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to: (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult and time consuming for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. 15 We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, as a result, our investors’ sole source of gain, if any, will depend on capital appreciation, if any. We do not plan to declare or pay any cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future and currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. As a result, investors should not rely on an investment in our securities if they require the investment to produce dividend income. Capital appreciation, if any, of our shares may be investors’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Moreover, investors may not be able to resell their common stock at or above the price they paid for them. We could issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval with the effect of diluting then current stockholder interests and impairing their voting rights, and provisions in our charter documents and under Nevada law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation provides for the authorization to issue up to 25,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue a series of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could dilute the interest of, or impair the voting power of, our common stockholders. The issuance of a series of preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. For example, it would be possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to change control of our company. In addition, advanced notice is required prior to stockholder proposals. Risks Related to our Future Pharmaceutical Products Our failure to obtain costly government approvals, including required FDA approvals, or to comply with ongoing governmental regulations relating to our technologies and proposed products and formulations could delay or limit introduction of our proposed formulations and products and result in failure to achieve revenues or maintain our ongoing business. Our research and development activities and the manufacture and marketing of our products and product candidates are currently at an early development stage and are subject to extensive regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by numerous government authorities in the United States and abroad. Before receiving FDA regulatory clearance to market our future proposed formulations and products, we will have to demonstrate that our formulations and products are safe and effective in the patient population and for the diseases that are to be treated. Clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of drugs are subject to the rigorous testing and approval process of the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal, state and foreign statutes and regulations govern and influence the testing, manufacture, labeling, advertising, distribution and promotion of drugs and medical devices. As a result, regulatory approvals can take a number of years or longer to accomplish and require the expenditure of substantial financial, managerial and other resources. Conducting and completing the clinical trials necessary for FDA approval is costly and subject to intense regulatory scrutiny as well as the risk of failing to meet the primary endpoint of such trials. We will not be able to commercialize and sell our proposed products and formulations without successfully completing such trials. In order to conduct clinical trials that are necessary to obtain approval by the FDA to market a formulation or product, it is necessary to receive clearance from the FDA to conduct such clinical trials. The FDA can halt clinical trials at any time for safety reasons or because we or our clinical investigators did not follow the FDA’s requirements for conducting clinical trials. If we are unable to receive clearance to conduct clinical trials or the trials are permanently halted by the FDA, we would not be able to achieve any revenue from such product as it is illegal to sell any drug or medical device for human consumption or use without FDA approval. 16 Data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory clearances. Data we may obtain in the future, from non-clinical studies and clinical trials do not necessarily predict the results that will be obtained from later non-clinical studies and clinical trials. Moreover, non-clinical and clinical data are susceptible to multiple and varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of a proposed formulation or product under development could delay or prevent regulatory clearance of the product candidate, resulting in delays to commercialization, and could materially harm our business. In addition, our clinical trials may not demonstrate sufficient levels of safety and efficacy necessary to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our drugs, and thus our proposed drugs may not be approved for marketing. Finally, if any of our clinical trials do not meet their primary endpoints, we would need to redo such clinical trials in order to progress development of the subject product. These additional trials would be costly and divert resources from other projects. Competitors in the drug development or specialty pharmaceutical industries may develop competing technologies or products which outperform or supplant our technologies or products. Drug companies and/or other technology companies may in the future seek to develop and market pharmaceutical products which do and may compete with our future technologies and products. Competitors may in the future develop similar or different technologies or products which may become more accepted by the marketplace or which may supplant our technology entirely. In addition, many of our future competitors may be, significantly larger and better financed than we are, thus giving them a significant advantage over us. We may be unable to respond to competitive forces presently in the marketplace (including competition from larger companies), which would severely impact our business. Moreover, should competing or dominating technologies or products come into existence and the owners thereof patent the applicable technological advances, we could also be required to license such technologies in order to continue to manufacture, market and sell our products. We may be unable to secure such licenses on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, and our resulting inability to manufacture, market and sell the affected products could have a material adverse effect on us. The market for our product candidates is rapidly changing and competitive, and new drug delivery mechanisms, drug delivery technologies, new drugs and new treatments which may be developed by others could impair our ability to maintain and grow our business and remain competitive. Even if successfully developed, our products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payers, which may not utilize our products. If our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Developments by others may render our technologies and our product candidates noncompetitive or obsolete, or we may be unable to keep pace with technological developments or other market factors. Technological competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and others now existing or diversifying into the field is intense and is expected to increase. Many of these entities have significantly greater research and development capabilities, human resources and budgets than we do, as well as substantially more marketing, manufacturing, financial and managerial resources. These entities represent significant competition for us. Acquisitions of, or investments in, competing pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies by large corporations could increase such competitors’ financial, marketing, manufacturing and other resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 17 