RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. A number of these risks are listed below. These risks could affect actual future results and could cause them to differ materially from any forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information set forth in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Should any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, any of the risks described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall and our shareholders may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our securities. 8 Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a “going concern” opinion. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to generate profitable operations in the future and/or to obtain the necessary financing to meet our obligations and repay our liabilities arising from normal business operations when they come due. We plan to continue to provide for our capital requirements by issuing additional equity. No assurance can be given that additional capital will be available when required or on terms acceptable to us. We also cannot give assurance that we will achieve sufficient revenues in the future to achieve profitability and cash flow positive operations. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted at this time and there are no assurances that, if achieved, we will have sufficient funds to execute our business plan or to generate positive operating results. Our independent regi stered public accounting firm has indicated that these matters, among others, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Possible need for substantial additional funds. We may need additional funds to finance our operations. Our cash requirement may vary from those now planned because of unexpected costs or delays due to changes in the direction of our business strategy, competition and other factors. Adequate funds for these purposes may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on acceptable terms. We have a history of losses and cash flow deficits, and we expect to continue to operate at a loss and to have negative cash flow for the foreseeable future, which could cause the price of our stock to decline. Since our inception, we have incurred net losses. At December 31, 2009, we had cumulative net losses of $39,308 and working capital of $145. We also had negative cash flow from start-up activities. As such, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Historically, we have funded our operations from internally generated funds and the proceeds from the sale equity securities. Our growth strategy is to increase our markets and our market share by implementing our strategic business plan. This is likely to result in additional losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future. We cannot give assurances that we will ever become profitable. Our future success depends on broad market acceptance of our services and products, which may not happen, and therefore we may never achieve profitability. Our target market is very fragmented and competitive. As is typical of any rapidly evolving industry, the demand for, and market acceptance of our services and products and services is highly uncertain, especially in uncertain economic times. In order to be successful, we must implement our strategic business plan, gain general public acceptance and create public awareness, especially name recognition. We believe that one of the major obstacles we face in marketing our services and products is the lack of knowledge of the importance of our services and lack of easily accessible locations. We spend a considerable amount of time attempting to develop these points. We can provide no assurances that these efforts will be successful or result in increased revenue. Our cash balance may not be sufficient to fully execute on our growth strategy, and therefore, we may plan to raise additional capital in the future. As of December 31, 2009, we had minimal cash on-hand for use in expansion, sales and marketing, capital expenditures and working capital. In all likelihood this amount will not be sufficient to execute our growth strategy in full necessitating a contingency plan to raise additional capital, if necessary, in order to execute our business strategy. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will suffer dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. 9 A significant downturn in the national economy, and prolonged economic weakness in the spending of discretionary funds, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be unfavorably affected by changes in national economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, and availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates and the effects of governmental plans to manage stable economic conditions. Although we believe we have adopted an effective strategy of slow and steady growth so that we would be less negatively influenced by adverse economic conditions, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in expanding the nature and scope of our product and service offerings. In such an environment, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not succeed in establishing our brand name, which could prevent us from acquiring customers and increasing our revenues. A significant element of our business strategy is to build market share by continuing to promote and establish our brand name. If we cannot establish our brand identity, we may fail to build the critical mass of customers required to substantially increase our revenues. Promoting and positioning our brand in the marketplace will depend largely on the success of our sales and marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. To promote our brand, we expect that we will incur substantial expenses related to advertising and other marketing efforts. If our brand promotion activities fail, our ability to attract new customers and maintain customer relationships will be adversely affected, and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations wi ll suffer. We are likely to face increasing competition, making it more difficult for us to capture market share. With minimal barriers to entry, any number of potential competitors could enter the market and provide the same services that we provide. This factor could materially and adversely affect our business and the value of any investment in our securities. Our future success depends on retaining our existing senior executives and hiring and retaining additional management personnel as well as skilled personnel for our service centers, and, therefore, the loss of any of our key employees or the failure to hire adequate personnel could limit our ability to execute our growth strategy, resulting in lost sales and a slower rate of growth. Our future success to a significant extent depends upon the continued service of our key executives and the acquisition and retention of key personnel, including service providers. The competition for high-quality, skilled service providers and key personnel is intense, causing the search process to be time-consuming and expensive. In addition we may need to hire skilled sales and account management executives to market, license or sell our services and proposed proprietary products that we intend to develop and acquire in the future. We may not be able to hire enough qualified, reliable personnel to meet our needs as our business grows. Our inability to hire and retain the individuals we need could hinder our ability to sell our services and existing and planned products. If we are not able to attract and retain qualified employees, we will not be able to successfully implement our business plan and our business will be harmed. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively, create operating efficiencies or achieve or sustain profitability. The ability to manage and operate our business as we execute our growth strategy will require effective planning. Rapid growth could strain our internal resources, leading to a lower quality of customer service, reporting problems and delays in meeting important deadlines, resulting in loss of market share and other problems that could adversely affect our reputation and financial performance. Our efforts to grow have placed, and we expect will continue to place, a significant strain on our personnel, management systems, infrastructure and other resources. Our ability to manage future growth effectively will also require us to continue to update and improve our operational, financial and management controls and procedures. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we could be faced with slower growth and a failure to achieve or sustain profitability. 10 We may incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management devotes substantial time to new compliance initiatives. We may incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company, including costs resulting from regulations regarding corporate governance practices. For example, the listing standards of the NASDAQ Capital Market require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, and solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of conduct. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, thes e rules and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”) requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, for the year ended December 31, 2007, we performed system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 may require that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if our independen t registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock would likely decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Stock Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. While we continue to take action to ensure compliance with the disclosure controls and other requirements of SOX and the related SEC and NASDAQ Stock Market rules, there are inherent limitations in our ability to control all circumstances. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that any company’s controls, including our own, will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be evaluated in relation to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all co ntrol systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Risks Related to Our Industry If the economy continues its downturn, we expect competition to increase, which could make it more difficult for us to grow and achieve profitability. We expect competition to increase. As we demonstrate the success of our products and services we expect other individuals and companies to enter the market. A rapid increase in competition could negatively affect our ability to develop new clientele, retain any existing clients and stabilize the prices that we can charge. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial resources, customer support, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and more established relationships than we do. We cannot be sure that we will have the resources or expertise to compete successfully. Compared to us, our competitors may be able to: 11 · develop and expand their products and services more quickly; · adapt faster to new or changing customer needs and preferences; · take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily; · negotiate more favorable agreements with vendors and customers; · devote greater resources to marketing and selling their products or services; and · address customer service issues more effectively. Some of our competitors also may be able to increase their market share by providing customers with additional benefits or by reducing their prices. We cannot be sure that we will be able to match price reductions or additional benefits provided by our competitors. In addition, our competitors may form strategic relationships to better compete with us. These relationships may take the form of strategic investments, joint-marketing agreements, or other contractual arrangements that could increase our competitors’ ability to serve customers. If our competitors are successful in entering our market, our ability to grow or even sustain any current business could be adversely impacted. If we fail to keep up with changes in our industry, we will become less competitive, limiting our ability to generate new business and increase our revenues. In order to remain competitive, serve our customers effectively and increase our revenue, we must respond on a timely and cost-effective basis to changes in the industry and customer preferences. We need to continuously develop new experiences that address customer preferences. In the market segments we serve and the regions in which we operate, we need to stay current and compliant with laws, regulations, rules, standards, guidelines, releases and other pronouncements that are periodically issued by legislatures, government agencies, courts, professional associations and others. In some cases these changes may be significant and the cost to comply with these changes may be substantial. We cannot give assurances that we will be able to adapt to any changes in the future, that we will have the financial res ources to keep up with changes in the marketplace or that we will be able to offset those costs with increases in the amounts we change for our services. This could cause our net income to decline, which likely will lead to a decline in the price of our publicly traded securities, resulting in a loss of all or a part of an investment in our securities. Risk Related to Our Securities Our stock price may be volatile and there is a limited market for our shares. The stock markets generally have experienced, and will probably continue to experience, extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of the shares of many small capital companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated to the operating results of such companies. Factors that may affect the volatility of our stock price include the following: · our success, or lack of success, in developing and marketing our products and services; · our ability to maintain compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements: · our ability to raise the required capital to fund our business: · the announcement of new locations, products and/or services by us or our competitors; · changes in the executive leadership of the company; · actual or perceived changes in the national economy and the views toward discretionary spending; 12 · quarterly fluctuations of our operating results; · changes in revenue or earnings estimates; and · competition. Based on the factors described above, recent trends should not be considered reliable indicators of our future stock prices or financial results. Investors should not expect the payment of dividends. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Investors who require cash dividends from their investments should not purchase our common stock. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause our stock price to decline and limit our stockholders’ ability to sell our common stock in the public markets. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our operating results may in some future quarter fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition to the risks disclosed elsewhere in this report, factors outside of our control, which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate may include: · fluctuations in the national economy; · demand for our services and products; · fluctuation in the capital budgets and the views of discretionary spending of our customers; and · development of superior services, products and marketing by our competitors. In addition, factors within our control, such as our ability to gain market share, may cause our operating results to fluctuate in the future. The factors listed above may affect both our quarter-to-quarter operating results as well as our long-term success. Given the potential fluctuation in our operating results, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance or to determine any trend in our performance. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit the ability of our stockholders to sell our securities in the public markets. If persons engage in short sales of our common stock, the price of our common stock may decline. Selling short is a technique used by a stockholder to take advantage of an anticipated decline in the price of a security. A significant number of short sales or a large volume of other sales within a relatively short period of time can create downward pressure on the market price of a security. Holders of our securities could, therefore, experience a decline in the value of their investment as a result of short sales of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Our current stockholders hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they are able to sell in the public market. Significant portions of these shares are held by a small number of stockholders. Sales by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares or the expectation that such sale may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. 13 (5) Sources and availability of raw materials and the names of principal suppliers We will not procure any raw materials and have no need for any principal suppliers as we do not produce a tangible product per se. Our company is a service oriented company. (6) Customers While we believe that our operations will rely heavily upon long-term relationships, we have not entered into any such relationships with any customers. We will rely on building special relationships with quality service and pricing in the locations’ local market. (7) Intellectual Property At the time of this filing, we do not have intellectual property such as trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, and thus do not have any need for nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions to protect our rights. Presently, we do not possess any patents and we do not have any patent applications pending. (8) Need for Government Approval We are not aware of the need to obtain governmental approval for any aspect of our operations with the possible exception of local business licenses, if applicable. All employees who perform services for our customers must be licensed massage therapists. (9) Effect of existing or probable government regulations Marvin’s Place, Inc. is not aware of any existing or probable government regulations that would have a material effect on our business. (10) Cost of Research and Development Our research and development activities are limited to individual observations and feedback at this point, and directed toward improving existing products and services and developing new products and services. (11) Costs and effects of compliance with environmental laws To date, we have not expended any material amounts to comply with environmental laws. In addition, we do not believe that our current business plan exposes us to any material compliance issues with respect to environmental laws. (12) Employees As of December 31, 2009, we did not have any employees. 