Item 1A. RISK FACTORSWe operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The risks described below highlight some of the factors that have affected and could affect us in the future. We may also be affected by unknown risks or risks that we currently think are immaterial. If any such events actually occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Risk Factors Relating to Our BusinessWe work in a highly competitive marketplace. We have multiple competitors in all of the areas in which we work, and some of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater resources than we do. Government funding for public works projects is limited, thus contributing to competition for the limited number of public projects available. This increased competition may result in a decrease in the number of new project awards we are able to procure at acceptable profit margins. We depend on continued federal, state and local government funding for marine infrastructure. A reduction in government funding for marine construction or maintenance contracts can materially affect our financial results.A substantial portion of our operations, particularly in the heavy civil marine construction segment, depend on project funding by various government agencies and are adversely affected by reduced levels of, or delays in, government funding. Decreases or delays in government funding often delay project lettings and result in intense competition and pricing pressures for projects on which we bid. As a result of competitive bidding and pricing pressures, we may either be awarded fewer projects, or realize lower profit margins on contracts awarded to us, which in either case could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.A significant portion of our heavy civil marine construction business is awarded through government contracts. Our operating results may be adversely affected by the terms of the government contracts or our failure to comply with applicable terms.Government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations, contract provisions and a variety of regulatory requirements relating to their formation, administration, performance and accounting. Many of these contracts include express or implied certifications of compliance with applicable laws and contract provisions. As a result of our government contracting and subcontracting, claims for civil or criminal fraud may be brought by the government for violations of these regulations, requirements or statutes. We may also be subject to qui tam ("Whistle Blower") litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, which could include claims for up to treble damages. Further, if we fail to comply with any of these regulations, requirements or statutes, our existing government contracts could be terminated, or we could be suspended or debarred from future government contracting or subcontracting, including federally funded projects at the state level. In addition, government customers typically can terminate or modify any of their contracts with us at their convenience, and certain government agencies may claim immunity from suit to recover disputed contract amounts. If our government contracts are terminated for any reason, or if we are suspended or debarred from government work, we could suffer a significant reduction in expected revenue which could have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition.We depend on continued growth in population to support residential and nonresidential construction for our commercial concrete construction segment.Our commercial concrete construction segment depends on continued growth in population to support residential and nonresidential construction. A growing population generates economic growth and expansion in construction for retail, office buildings, etc. If the population decreases or slows in growth, it often times adversely affects economic growth, which ultimately limits the need for residential and nonresidential construction services in the areas we currently perform services.The timing of new contracts may result in volatility in our cash flow and profitability. These factors as well as others that may cause our actual financial results to vary from any publicly disclosed earnings guidance and forecasts are outside of our control.Our revenues are generated from project-based work. It is generally very difficult to predict the timing and source of awarded contracts. The selection of, timing of or failure to obtain projects, delays in awards of projects, the rebidding or termination of projects due to budget overruns, or the cancellations of projects or delays in completion of contracts could result in the under-utilization of our assets and reduce our cash flows. Even if we are awarded contracts, we face additional risks that could affect whether, or when, work will begin. For example, some of our contracts are subject to financing and other contingencies that may 13Table of Contentsdelay or result in termination of projects. This may make it difficult to match workforce size and equipment location with contract needs. In some cases, we may be required to bear the cost of a readily available workforce and fleet of equipment that is larger than needed at the time, resulting in unpredictability in our cash flow, expenses and profitability. If an expected contract award or the related notice to proceed is delayed or not received, we could incur substantial costs without receipt of any corresponding revenues. Delays by our customers in obtaining required approvals for their infrastructure projects may delay their awarding contracts for those projects and, once awarded, the ability to commence construction under those contracts. Moreover, construction projects for which our services are contracted may require significant expenditures by us prior to receipt of relevant payments by a customer and may expose us to potential credit risk if such customer should encounter financial difficulties. Such expenditures could reduce our cash flows and necessitate increased borrowings under our credit facilities. Finally, the winding down or completion of work on significant projects that were active in previous periods will reduce our revenue and earnings if such significant projects have not been replaced in the current period. From time-to-time we may publicly provide earnings or other forms of guidance, which reflect our predictions about future revenue, operating costs and capital structure, among other factors. Any such predictions may be impacted by these factors as well as others that are beyond our control and might not turn out to be correct.Fluctuations in commodity prices may affect our customers’ investment decisions and therefore subject us to risks of cancellation, delays in existing work, or changes in the timing and funding of new awards. Additionally, fluctuations in commodity prices can negatively affect our project costs.Commodity prices can affect our customers in a number of ways. For example, for those customers that produce commodity products such as oil, gas, concrete, steel products, fluctuations in price can have a direct effect on their profitability and cash flow and, therefore, their willingness to continue to invest or make new capital investments. To the extent commodity prices decline or fluctuate and our customers defer new investments or cancel or delay existing projects, the demand for our services decreases, which may have a material adverse impact on the business, financial condition, and results of operations. Commodity prices can also strongly affect the costs of projects. Rising commodity prices can negatively impact the potential returns on projects that are planned, as well as those in progress, and result in customers deferring new investments or canceling or delaying existing projects. The short-term nature of the majority of our projects typically protects us from these potential price increases, however, if we are unable to procure commodities for completion of our projects at estimated prices due to rising commodity prices, our margins may erode on certain in progress or future projects.We may be unable to obtain sufficient bonding capacity for our contracts and the need for performance and surety bonds may adversely affect our business.As more fully described in “Insurance and Bonding” under “Item 1. Business,” we are generally required to post bonds in connection with government and certain private sector contracts to ensure job completion. We have entered into a bonding agreement with a large multinational surety which acts as surety, issues bid bonds, performance bonds and payment bonds, and obligates itself upon other contracts of guaranty required by us in the day-to-day operations of our business. However, our surety is not obligated under the bonding agreement to issue bonds for us and bonding decisions are made on a case-by-case basis. We may not be able to maintain a sufficient level of bonding capacity in the future, which could preclude us from being able to bid for certain contracts and successfully contract with certain customers, or cause us to have to increase our letter of credit utilization in lieu of bonds, thereby reducing availability under our credit facility. In addition, the conditions of the bonding market may change, increasing our costs of bonding or restricting our ability to get new bonding which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.Our business depends on good customer relationships and our reputation in both the heavy civil marine and commercial concrete infrastructure markets, which is developed and maintained by our executives and key project managers. Loss of any of our relationships, reputation or executives or key project managers could materially reduce our revenues and profits.Our contracts are typically entered into on a project-by-project basis, so we generally do not have continuing contractual commitments with our customers beyond the terms of the current contract. We benefit from key customer relationships built over time and with both public and private entities. We also benefit from our reputation in the heavy civil marine and commercial concrete infrastructure markets developed over years of successfully performing on projects. Both of these aspects of our business were developed and are maintained through our executives and key project managers. Our inability to retain our executives and key project managers or inability to complete projects timely and successfully resulting in customer satisfaction could have a material adverse effect on our current customer relationships and reputation. The inability to maintain relationships with our customers in general or obtain new customers based on our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.14Table of ContentsThe loss of, or a significant reduction in, business from a few customers could have an adverse impact on us.A few customers have in the past, and may in the future, account for a significant portion of our revenue and/or backlog in any one year or over a period of consecutive years, depending on the size, scope and mix of projects at the time. Although we have long-standing relationships with many of our customers, many of our contracts allow for the unilateral reduction, delay or cancellation of work at any time, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to fully realize the revenue value reported in our backlog.We had a backlog of work to be completed on contracts totaling approximately $194.3 million as of December 31, 2015 in our heavy civil marine construction segment. We had a backlog of work to be completed on contracts totaling approximately $163.3 million as of December 31, 2015 in our commercial concrete construction segment. Backlog develops as a result of new awards, which represent the potential revenue value realizable pursuant to new project commitments received by us during a given period. Backlog consists of awarded projects which have either (a) not yet been started or (b) are in progress but are not yet complete. In the latter case, the revenue value reported in backlog is the remaining value related to work that has not yet been completed. We cannot guarantee that the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized, or if realized, will result in earnings. From time-to-time, projects are cancelled that appeared to have a high certainty of going forward at the time they were recorded as new awards. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to recover the total revenue reflected in our backlog. In addition to being unable to recover certain direct costs, cancelled projects may also result in additional unrecoverable costs due to the resulting under-utilization of our assets or labor force.We could suffer contract losses if we fail to accurately estimate our costs or fail to execute within our cost estimates on fixed-price, lump-sum contracts.Much of our revenue is derived from fixed-price, lump-sum contracts. Under these contracts, we perform our services and execute our projects at a fixed price and where, as a result, we could benefit from cost savings, but we may be unable to recover any cost overruns. Fixed-price contracts carry inherent risks, including risks of losses from underestimating costs, operational difficulties and other factors that may occur over the contract period. If our cost estimates for a contract are inaccurate, or if we do not execute the contract within our cost estimates, we may incur losses or the project may not be as profitable as we expected. In addition, we are sometimes required to incur costs in connection with modifications to a contract (change orders) that may not be approved by the customer as to scope and/or price, or to incur unanticipated costs, including costs for customer-caused delays, errors in specifications or designs, or contract suspension or termination that we may not be able to recover. These, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The revenue, cost and gross profit realized on such contracts can vary, sometimes substantially, from the original projections due to changes in a variety of factors, such as:•failure to properly estimate costs of engineering, design, material, equipment or labor;•unanticipated technical problems with the structures or services being supplied by us, which may require that we spend our own money to remedy the problem;•project modifications creating unanticipated costs;•changes in the costs of equipment, materials, labor or subcontractors;•our suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform;•difficulties in our customers obtaining required governmental permits or approvals;•changes in local laws and regulations;•delays caused by local weather conditions; and•exacerbation of any one or more of these factors as projects grow in size and complexity.These risks increase if the project is of a long-term duration because of the elevated risk that the circumstances upon which we based our original bid will change in a manner that increases costs. In addition, we sometimes bear the risk of delays caused by unexpected conditions or events.Our dependence on petroleum-based products increases our costs as the prices of such products increase, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.We use diesel fuel and other petroleum-based products to operate our equipment used in our construction contracts. Fluctuations in supplies relative to demand and other factors can cause unanticipated increases in their cost. Currently, the cost of diesel fuel and other petroleum-based products are relatively low compared to prior years due to the reduction of oil pricing. However, future increases in the costs of fuel and other petroleum-based products used in the business, particularly if a bid has been submitted for 15Table of Contentsa contract and the costs of those products have been estimated at amounts less than the actual costs thereof, could result in a lower profit, or even a loss, on one or more contracts.Our dependence on concentrated suppliers to procure goods and services.We rely on suppliers to provide most of our materials for our construction projects. Thus, to the extent that we cannot obtain commitments from our suppliers for these products, our ability to bid for contracts may be impaired. Any increases charged for these products, particularly if a bid has been submitted for a contract and the costs of such products have been estimated at amounts less than the actual costs thereof, could result in a lower profit, or a loss, on a contract. Additionally, if certain of our suppliers has a disruption in service for our procured materials, our projects may be delayed, potentially resulting in liquidated damages or other losses on our projects.Many of our contracts have penalties for late completion.In many instances, including in our fixed-price contracts, we guarantee that we will complete a project by a scheduled date. If we subsequently fail to complete the project as scheduled, we may be liable for any customer losses resulting from such delay, generally in the form of contractually agreed-upon liquidated damages. In addition, failure to maintain a required schedule could cause us to default on our government contracts, giving rise to a variety of potential damages. To the extent that these events occur, the total costs of the project could exceed our original estimates, and we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project.We are dependent on third parties to complete many of our contracts. Some of the work performed under our contracts is performed by third-party subcontractors we hire. We also rely on third-party equipment manufacturers or suppliers to provide much of the materials used for projects. If we are unable to hire qualified subcontractors or find qualified equipment manufacturers or suppliers, our ability to successfully complete a project could be impaired. If we are not able to locate qualified third-party subcontractors or the amount we are required to pay for subcontractors or equipment and supplies exceeds what we have estimated, especially in a lump-sum or a fixed-price contract, we may suffer losses on these contracts. If a subcontractor, supplier, or manufacturer fails to provide services, supplies or equipment as required under a contract for any reason, we may be required to source these services, equipment or supplies to other third parties on a delayed basis or on less favorable terms, which could impact contract profitability. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors relating to, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed, customer concerns about the subcontractor, or our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a contract. In addition, faulty workmanship, equipment or materials could impact the overall project, resulting in claims against us for failure to meet required project specifications.In the current economic environment, third parties may find it difficult to obtain sufficient financing to help fund their operations. The inability to obtain financing could adversely affect a third party’s ability to provide materials, equipment or services which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, a failure by a third party subcontractor, supplier or manufacturer to comply with applicable laws, regulations or client requirements could negatively impact our business and, for government clients, could result in fines, penalties, suspension or even debarment being imposed on us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We may choose, or be required, to pay our suppliers and subcontractors even if our customers do not pay, or delay paying, us for the related services.We use suppliers to obtain necessary materials and, from time to time, subcontractors to perform portions of our services and to manage work flow. In some cases, we pay our suppliers and subcontractors before our customers pay us for the related services. If we choose, or are required, to pay our suppliers and subcontractors for materials purchased and work performed for customers who fail to pay, or delay paying, us for the related work, we could experience a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.We extend credit to customers for purchases of our services, and in the past we have had, and in the future we may have, difficulty collecting receivables from major customers that have filed bankruptcy or are otherwise experiencing financial difficulties.We generally perform services in advance of payment from our customers, which include governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of marine and port facilities, among others. Consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors. On occasion, we have had difficulty collecting from governmental entities or customers with financial difficulties. If we cannot collect receivables for present or future services, we could experience decreased cash flows resulting in inability to pay other obligations.16Table of ContentsWe may incur higher costs to acquire, manufacture and maintain equipment necessary for our operations.We have traditionally owned most of the equipment used in our projects, and we do not bid on contracts for which we do not have, or cannot quickly procure, whether through construction, acquisition or lease, the necessary equipment to complete projects. We are capable of building much of the specialized equipment used in our projects, including dayboats, tenders and dredges. To the extent that we are unable to buy or build equipment necessary for our needs, either due to a lack of available funding or equipment shortages in the marketplace, we may be forced to rent equipment on a short-term basis, which could increase the costs of completing contracts, thereby reducing contract profitability. In addition, our equipment requires continuous maintenance, which we primarily provide through our own repair facilities, as well as certification by the U.S. Coast Guard for certain heavy civil marine construction segment assets. If we are unable to continue to maintain the equipment in our fleet or are unable to obtain the requisite certifications, we may be forced to obtain third-party repair services, be unable to use our uncertified equipment or be unable to bid on contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.In addition, our vessels in the heavy civil marine construction segment may be subject to arrest or seizure by claimants as security for maritime torts committed by the vessel or us or the failure by us to pay for necessaries, including fuel and repair services, which were furnished to the vessel. Such arrest or seizure could preclude the vessel from working, thereby causing delays in marine construction projects.To be successful, we need to attract and retain qualified personnel, and any inability to do so could adversely affect our business.Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel in various areas, including engineering, project management, procurement, project controls, finance, and senior executive management. If we do not succeed in retaining and motivating our current employees and attracting new high quality employees, our business could be adversely affected. Accordingly, our ability to increase our productivity and profitability will be dependent upon our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel adequate to meet our requirements. We may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently. Our labor expenses may also increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel, or we may have to curtail our planned internal growth as a result of labor shortages. We may also spend considerable resources training employees who may then be hired by our competitors, forcing us to spend additional funds to attract personnel to fill those positions. In addition, certain of our employees hold licenses and permits under which we operate. The loss of any such employees could result in our inability to operate under such licenses and permits, which could adversely affect our operations until replacement licenses or permits are obtained. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel in the future, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.We may be subject to unionization, work stoppages, slowdowns or increased labor costs.Only a small percentage of our heavy civil marine construction segment workforce, located in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska, is currently unionized. If at any time, a majority of our employees unionized, it could limit the flexibility of the workforce and could result in demands that might increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our profitability. Each of our different employee groups could unionize at any time and would require separate collective bargaining agreements. If any group of our employees were to unionize and we were unable to agree on the terms of their collective bargaining agreement or we were to experience widespread employee dissatisfaction, we could be subject to work slowdowns or stoppages. In addition, we may be subject to disruptions by organized labor groups protesting our non-union status. Any of these events would be disruptive to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition.Construction worksites are inherently dangerous workplaces. If we fail to maintain safe worksites, we may be subject to significant operating risks and hazards that could result in injury or death to persons, which could result in losses or liabilities to us.Construction and maintenance sites are potentially dangerous workplaces and often put our employees and others in close proximity with mechanized equipment, moving vehicles, etc. On most sites, we are responsible for safety and, accordingly, must implement safety procedures. Our safety record is an important consideration for us and for our customers. If serious accidents or fatalities occur or our safety record was to deteriorate, we may be ineligible to bid on certain work, expose ourselves to possible litigations, and existing service arrangements could be terminated, thus having a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Further, regulatory changes implemented by OSHA or the U.S. Coast Guard could impose additional costs on us. Adverse experience with hazards and claims could have a negative effect on our reputation with our existing or potential new customers and our prospects for future work.17Table of ContentsOur business is subject to significant operating risks and hazards that could result in damage or destruction to property, which could result in losses or liabilities to us.The businesses of marine infrastructure construction, port maintenance, dredging and salvage are generally subject to a number of risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, hurricanes, adverse weather conditions, collisions with fixed objects, cave-ins, encountering unusual or unexpected geological formations, disruption of transportation services and flooding. These risks could result in damage to or destruction of, dredges, transportation vessels, other maritime structures and buildings, and could also result in personal injury or death, environmental damage, performance delays, monetary losses or legal liability.In the commercial concrete infrastructure, our workers are subject to the usual hazards associated with providing construction and related services on construction sites including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, hurricanes, adverse weather conditions, and flooding. Operating hazards can cause personal injury or death, damage to or destruction of property, plant and equipment, environmental damage, performance delays, monetary losses or legal liability. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all.We maintain various insurance policies, including general liability and workers’ compensation. We are partially self-insured under some of our policies, and our insurance does not cover all types or amounts of liabilities. We are not required to, and do not, specifically set aside funds for our self-insurance programs.At any given time, we are subject to multiple workers’ compensation and personal injury claims. We maintain substantial loss accruals for workers’ compensation claims, and, until recently, our workers’ compensation and insurance costs have been rising for several years notwithstanding our emphasis on safety. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. In addition, some of the projects that we bid on require us to maintain high levels of builder’s risk insurance. We may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain such insurance coverage at acceptable rates or at all could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.Furthermore, due to a variety of factors such as increases in claims and projected significant increases in medical costs and wages, our insurance premiums may increase in the future and we may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Any such inadequacy of, or inability to obtain, insurance coverage at acceptable rates, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.Insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and quantify due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs above our estimates, we might be required to use working capital to satisfy these costs rather than to maintain or expand our operations. To the extent that we experience a material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents or workers’ compensation and health claims, or unfavorable developments on existing claims, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.Our employees in the heavy civil marine construction segment are covered by federal laws that provide seagoing employees remedies for job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws.Many of our heavy civil marine construction segment employees are covered by federal maritime law, including provisions of the Jones Act, the Longshore and Harbor Workers Act, (“USL&H”) and the Seaman’s Wage Act. Jones Act laws typically operate to make liability limits established by USL&H and state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue litigation against employers for job-related injuries. Because in some cases we are not protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes, we have greater exposure for claims made by these employees as compared to employers whose employees are not covered by these provisions.For example, in the normal course of business, we are a defendant in various personal injury lawsuits. We maintain insurance to cover claims that arise from injuries to our workforce subject to a deductible. During 2015, we recorded approximately $1.9 million of expense for our self-insured portion of these liabilities. We believe our recorded self-insurance reserves represent our best estimate of the outcomes of these claims. Should negative trends persist; we could continue to be negatively impacted in the future.18Table of ContentsDuring the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.We have been and may from time to time be named as a defendant in legal actions claiming damages in connection with our construction projects and other matters. Typically, these claims that arise in the normal course of business, including employment-related claims and contractual disputes or claims for personal injury (including asbestos-related lawsuits) or property damage which occurs in connection with services performed relating to project or construction sites. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, environmental damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, consequential damages or injunctive or declaratory relief. Contractual disputes normally involve claims relating to the timely completion of projects, performance of equipment, design or other engineering services or project services. We may incur liabilities that may not be covered by insurance policies, or, if covered, the dollar amount of such liabilities may exceed our policy limits or fall below applicable deductibles. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of significant magnitude, could cause us to suffer a significant loss and reduce cash available for our operations.Furthermore, our services are integral to the operation and performance of the infrastructure of both our heavy civil marine and commercial concrete construction projects. As a result, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the infrastructure that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures. In addition, we may incur civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage or personal injury. With respect to such lawsuits, claims, proceedings and indemnities, we have and will accrue reserves in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In the event that such actions or indemnities are ultimately resolved unfavorably at amounts exceeding our accrued reserves, or at material amounts, the outcome could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our liquidity position.Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.Our marine infrastructure construction, salvage, demolition, dredging and dredge material disposal activities are subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those concerning air emissions, water quality, solid waste management, and protection of certain marine and bird species, their habitats, and wetlands. We may incur substantial costs in order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations. For instance, we may be required to obtain, maintain and comply with permits and other approvals (as well as those obtained for projects by our customers) issued by various federal, state and local governmental authorities; limit or prevent releases of materials from our operations in accordance with these permits and approvals; and install pollution control equipment. In addition, compliance with environmental laws and regulations can delay or prevent our performance of a particular project and increase related project costs. Moreover, new, stricter environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies, including those imposed in response to climate change, could be implemented that significantly increase our compliance costs, or require us to adopt more costly methods of operation.Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations, or the permits issued under them, may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. In addition, strict joint and several liability may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the investigation or remediation of environmental contamination that resulted from the conduct of others or from our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Further, it is possible that we may be exposed to liability due to releases of pollutants, or other environmental impacts that may arise in the course of our operations. For instance, some of the work we perform is in underground and water environments, and if the field location maps or waterway charts supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil or water that are not indicated on the field location maps or waterway charts, our underground and underwater work could strike objects in the soil or the waterway bottom containing pollutants and result in a rupture and discharge of pollutants. In addition, we sometimes perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies, and due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture releasing subsurface materials. These releases may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, may expose us to remediation costs and fines and legal actions by private parties seeking damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs through insurance or increased revenues, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. See “Business - Environmental Matters” for more information.Our commercial concrete infrastructure construction is subject to extensive and complex regulations that affect land development and building construction, including zoning, density restrictions, building design and building standards. These regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we must meet prior to development or construction being approved, if approved at all. We are subject to determinations by these authorities as to the adequacy of 19Table of Contentswater or sewage facilities. New building developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, and other public improvements. In addition, in many markets government authorities have implemented no growth or growth control initiatives. Any of these can limit, delay or increase the costs of development and construction.We may be affected by market or regulatory responses to climate change.Climate change legislation or regulation may result in the imposition of additional environmental regulations, concerning, among other factors, greenhouse gas emissions. Enactment of such additional regulations could result in increased compliance costs for us and our customers. Such policy changes could increase the costs of projects for our clients or, in some cases, prevent a project from going forward, thereby potentially reducing the need for our services, which would in turn have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to pass such additional costs on to our customers. We may be unable to sustain historical revenue growth rates.We may be unable to sustain the revenue growth rates we experienced in the past, due to limits on additional growth in our current markets, less success in competitive bidding for contracts, limitations on access to necessary working capital and investment capital to sustain growth, limitations on access to bonding to support increased contracts and operations, the inability to hire and retain essential personnel and to acquire equipment to support growth, and the inability to identify acquisition targets and successfully integrate them into our business. A sustained decrease in revenue growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition if we are unable to reduce the growth of our operating expenses at the same rate.The anticipated investment in port and marine infrastructure may not be as large as expected, which may result in periods of low demand for our heavy civil marine construction services.The demand for port construction, maintenance infrastructure services and dredging may be vulnerable to downturns in the economy generally and in the marine transportation industry specifically. The amount of capital expenditures on port facilities and marine infrastructure in our markets is affected by the actual and anticipated shipping and vessel needs of the economy in general and in our geographic markets in particular. If the general level of economic activity deteriorates, our customers may delay or cancel expansions, upgrades, maintenance and repairs to their infrastructure. A number of other factors, including the financial condition of the shipping industry, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future. During downturns in the U.S. or world economies, the anticipated port usage in our geographic markets may decline, resulting in less port construction, upgrading and maintenance. As a result, demand for our services could substantially decline for extended periods.Terrorist attacks could negatively impact the markets in which we operate.Terrorist attacks, targeted at ports, marine facilities or shipping could affect the markets in which we operate our business and our expectations. Increased armed hostilities, terrorist attacks or responses from the United States may lead to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbances in the United States or elsewhere, which may further contribute to economic instability in the United States. These attacks or armed conflicts may affect our operations or those of our customers or suppliers and could impact our revenues, our production capability and our ability to complete contracts in a timely manner.Our operations are susceptible to adverse weather conditions and natural disasters in our regions of operation.Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather and other natural disasters, such as earthquakes or hurricanes, particularly along the Gulf Coast, the West Coast, the Atlantic Seaboard, and the Caribbean Basin. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include:•evacuation of personnel and curtailment of services;•weather-related damage or catastrophic loss to our equipment, facilities and project work sites resulting in suspension of operations;•inability to deliver materials to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules;•loss of productivity; and•interruption of projects in process.20Table of ContentsWe are subject to risks related to our international operations.We currently have on-going projects in the Caribbean Basin and Mexico in our heavy civil marine construction segment. International operations subject us to additional risks, including:•uncertainties concerning import and export license requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers;•restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States;•changes in foreign policies and regulatory requirements;•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;•taxation issues;•currency fluctuations; •political, cultural and economic uncertainties; and•risk of expropriation or seizure.These risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar international anti-bribery laws.The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies, their affiliates and intermediaries form making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with the FCPA and these other laws. Our international operations in our heavy civil marine construction segment are currently not a significant portion of our business; however, despite our compliance programs and internal training, there is no assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from unlawful acts committed by our employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for FCPA or other violations, we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Restrictions on foreign ownership of our vessels could limit our ability to sell off any portion of our heavy civil marine construction segment or result in the forfeiture of our vessels or in our inability to continue our operations in United States navigable waters.The Dredging Act, the Jones Act, the Shipping Act and the Vessel Documentation Act require vessels engaged in the transport of merchandise or passengers between two points in the United States or dredging in the navigable waters of the United States to be owned and controlled by United States citizens. The United States citizen ownership and control standards require the vessel-owning entity to be at least 75% U.S. citizen-owned, thus restricting foreign ownership interests in the entities that directly or indirectly own the vessels which we operate. If we were to seek to sell any portion of our heavy civil marine construction segment that owns any of these vessels, we may have fewer potential purchasers, since some potential purchasers might be unable or unwilling to satisfy the foreign ownership restrictions described above; additionally, any sales of certain of our larger vessels to foreign buyers would be subject to approval by the U.S. Maritime Administration. As a result, the sales price for that portion of our heavy civil marine construction segment may not attain the amount that could be obtained in an unregulated market. Our strategy of growing through strategic acquisitions may not be successful.We may pursue growth through the acquisition of companies or assets that will enable us to broaden the types of projects we execute and also expand into new markets. We have completed several acquisitions and plan to consider strategic acquisitions in the future. We may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable companies or assets or reach agreement on potential strategic acquisitions on acceptable terms. Moreover, an acquisition involves certain risks, including:•difficulties in the integration of operations, systems, policies and procedures;•enhancements in our controls and procedures including those necessary for a public company may make it more difficult to integrate operations and systems;•failure to implement proper overall business controls, including those required to support our growth, resulting in inconsistent operating and financial practices at companies we acquire or have acquired;•termination of relationships with the key personnel and customers of an acquired company;•additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, financial reporting and internal controls;•the incurrence of environmental and other liabilities, including liabilities arising from the operation of an acquired business or asset prior to our acquisition for which we are not indemnified or for which the indemnity is inadequate;21Table of Contents•disruption of or receipt of insufficient management attention to our ongoing business; and•inability to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits that we anticipate.Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on attractive terms. Moreover, to the extent an acquisition transaction financed by non-equity consideration results in additional goodwill, it will reduce our tangible net worth, which might have an adverse effect on our credit and bonding capacity.We may be vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the markets in which our customers operate, which may be exacerbated during economic downturns.Economic downturns have affected numerous industries and companies and many states continue to face difficult budget decisions which could result in reduced demand for general construction projects. This reduced demand may increase the number of potential bidders in our markets and could increase the competitive environment through pressure on pricing. Budgeting decisions and constraints due to the tight credit markets may result in diversion of governmental funding from projects we perform to other uses. A weak economy may also produce less tax revenue, thereby decreasing funds for public sector projects. Lower levels of activity may result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability.In addition, levels of new commercial and residential construction projects could be adversely affected by oversupply of existing inventories of commercial and residential properties, low property values and a restrictive financing environment. A depressed demand for construction and construction materials in both the public and private sectors could result in intensified competition, which could have an adverse impact on both our revenues and profit margins and could impact growth opportunities. Negative conditions in the credit and financial markets could impair our ability to operate our business, or implement our acquisition strategiesInstability in the credit markets in the United States and abroad, could affect the availability of credit and may make it difficult or expensive to obtain in spite of increased liquidity and low interest rates. We may face challenges if conditions in the financial markets deteriorate. While these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance operations at this time, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. A continuing shortage of liquidity could have an impact on the lenders under our credit facility or on our customers.Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors and may discourage a takeover or change of control.We are a Delaware corporation. Various anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law impose impediments on the ability of others to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may impede or discourage a takeover. For example:• our Board of Directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms;• vacancies on the Board of Directors can only be filled by other directors;• there are various restrictions on the ability of a shareholder to nominate a director for election; and• our Board of Directors can authorize the issuance of preference shares.These types of provisions in our charter and bylaws could also make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. Accordingly, shareholders may be limited in the ability to obtain a premium for their shares.Risk Factors Relating to Our Accounting, Financial Results and Financing PlansActual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements.To prepare financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP, management is required to make estimates and assumptions as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: •contract costs and profits, application of percentage-of-completion accounting, and revenue recognition of contract change order claims; 22Table of Contents•provisions for uncollectible receivables and customer claims and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, suppliers and others; •valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; •accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves; and •the value of our deferred tax assets. Our actual results or experience could differ from those estimates.Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profit.As is more fully discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies,” we recognize contract revenue using the percentage-of-completion method. A significant portion of our work is performed on a fixed-price or lump-sum basis. The balance of our work is performed on variations of cost reimbursable and unit price approaches. Contract revenue is accrued based on the percentage that actual incurred costs-to-date bear to total estimated project costs. We utilize this cost-to-cost approach as we believe this method is less subjective than relying on assessments of physical progress. While the cost-to-cost approach is the most widely recognized method used for percentage-of-completion accounting, the use of estimated cost to complete each contract is a significant variable in the process of determining income earned and is a significant factor in the accounting for contracts. The cumulative impact of any revision in total cost estimates during the progress of work is reflected in the period in which these changes become known. Due to the various estimates inherent in our contract accounting, actual results could differ from those estimates, which may result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue and profit.An impairment charge to goodwill could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2015, goodwill carried on our Consolidated Balance Sheets was $66.0 million, representing 14.2% of our total assets of $465.5 million. We are required to review goodwill not less than annually, and if events or circumstances change between annual tests, for possible impairment based on a fair value approach of our reporting units. Changes in macroeconomic indicators, the overall business climate, a sustained decline in a reporting unit's market value, operating performance indicators, and other factors could affect our assessment of fair value, either through a qualitative approach or through direct testing, and result in an impairment charge with a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in the period in which the charge is taken. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock value.Maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate internal controls, the business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”) and the related rules of the SEC to annually assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to issue a report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. During the course of the related documentation and testing, we may identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we may be unable to remediate before the requisite deadline for those reports. If our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to process and report financial information and the value of our common stock could significantly decline.Our effective tax rate may increase or decrease.Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We continue to assess the impact of various U.S. federal, state and international legislative proposals that could result in a material increase to our U.S. federal, state and/or international taxes. We cannot predict whether any specific legislation will be enacted or the terms of any such legislation. Although we believe that our tax estimates and tax provisions are reasonable, they could be materially affected by the final outcome of tax audits, the introduction of new tax accounting standards, legislation, regulations and related interpretations, our mix of earnings, the realizability of deferred tax positions and recognition or changes in uncertain tax positions. An increase or decrease in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.23Table of ContentsOur bonding requirements may limit our ability to incur indebtedness.We generally are required to provide various types of surety bonds that provide an additional measure of security for our performance under certain government and private sector contracts. Our ability to obtain surety bonds depends upon various factors including our capitalization, working capital and amount of our indebtedness. In order to help ensure that we can obtain required bonds, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness that may be needed for potential acquisitions and operations. Our inability to incur additional indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.A downturn in economic conditions may impact our customers’ ability to pay for services and finance projects.Our primary customers are governmental agencies in the United States and a wide variety of private customers in diverse industries. It is possible that current economic conditions may affect some of our customers’ ability to access sufficient capital to finance or complete projects. Our cash flows may be adversely impacted through customer delays in payment or non-payment of our accounts receivable, or through delays or cancellations of projects awarded to us. We monitor our accounts receivable balances closely and maintain contact with our customers to assess the economic viability of projects in process.Systems and information technology interruption or failure and data security breaches could adversely impact our ability to operate or expose us to significant financial losses and reputational harm. We rely heavily on computer, information, and communications technology and related systems in order to properly operate our business. From time to time, we experience occasional system interruptions and delays. In the event we are unable to regularly deploy software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure, and take other steps to maintain or improve the efficiency and efficacy of our systems, the operation of such systems could be interrupted or result in the loss, corruption, or release of data. In addition, our computer and communication systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, force major events, telecommunications failures, power loss, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, malicious code, physical or electronic security breaches, intentional or inadvertent user misuse or error, or similar events or disruptions. Any of these or other events could cause interruptions, delays, loss of critical and/or sensitive data or similar effects, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, protection of intellectual property, and results of operations, as well as those of our clients. In addition, we face the threat to our computer systems of unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, malicious code, organized cyberattacks and other security problems and system disruptions, including possible unauthorized access to and disclosure of our and our clients’ proprietary or classified information. We rely on industry accepted security measures and technology to securely maintain all confidential and proprietary information on our computer systems, but they may still be vulnerable to these threats. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these system disruptions and security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these disruptions and breaches. Any of these events could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Risks Related to Our IndebtednessOur indebtedness requires significant debt service payments that could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness.At December 31, 2015, our total consolidated indebtedness was approximately $110.6 million. Per the Credit Agreement, the Term Loan Facility requires quarterly installment payments which increase throughout the life of the loan and have a date of maturity of August 5, 2020. For a further discussion of the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness, see "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources".We may not have sufficient available cash from operations each quarter to enable us to pay our debt obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations depends on our financial condition, operating results and capital resources, which are subject to, among other things: the business, financial, economic, industry, competitive, regulatory and other factors discussed in these risk factors (including those factors discussed under "Risks Related to Our Business" above), and on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: the level of capital expenditures we make, including those for acquisitions, if any; our debt service requirements; fluctuations in our working capital needs; our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; and restrictions on debt service payments.24Table of ContentsIf we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, we may be forced to take other actions to fund the satisfaction of our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.If our cash flow is insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, raise additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. However, we may not be able to implement any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may still not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing indebtedness or it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, the credit agreements governing the Credit Facility restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due (as further discussed below in these "Risks Related to Our Indebtedness"). Thus, we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due.If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow to permit us to make scheduled payments on our debt, then we will be in default and holders of that debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable. If our existing indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness in full. In addition, in the event of a default, the lenders under the Credit Facility could terminate their further commitments to loan money and our secured lenders under the Credit Facility could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.The terms of our outstanding indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions.The credit agreement governing the Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our Subsidiaries, and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best interest, including, but not limited to, restrictions on our ability to incur, create, assume, or guarantee additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, capital stock, make fundamental sales and dispositions of assets, create, incur, assume, or permit to exist any liens, enter into transactions with affiliates and insiders, alter the businesses we conduct, or consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our financing arrangements may be affected by events beyond our control. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be impaired. A breach of the covenants under one of these agreements could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such a default, if not cured or waived, may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt principal and/or related interest payments. If our existing indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness in full. In addition, an event of default under the credit agreements governing our Credit Facility would permit the lenders to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our Credit Facility, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.Our overall level of indebtedness requires that we dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to debt service payments instead of to other general corporate purposes and other business opportunities, which could adversely affect our operating performance, growth, profitability and financial condition, which in turn could make it more difficult for us to generate cash flow sufficient to satisfy all of our obligations under our indebtedness.Our overall level of indebtedness requires that we dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to debt service payments, which reduces the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities, or capital expenditures and limits our ability to:• obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital and operations, or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;• make needed capital expenditures;• make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into joint ventures;• react to changes or withstand a future downturn in our business, the industry or the economy in general;• engage in business activities, including future opportunities that may be in our interest;• react to competitive pressures or compete with competitors with less debt;25Table of Contents• react to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and• plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies.These limitations could adversely affect our operating performance, growth, profitability and financial condition, which would make it more difficult for us to generate cash flow sufficient to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to permit us to make scheduled service payments on our debt, then we will be in default and holders of that debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable. If our existing indebtedness were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness in full. In addition, in the event of a default, the lenders under the Credit Facility could terminate their further commitments to loan money and our secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.Borrowings under the Credit Facility allow for loans at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed will remain the same, and our net income and operating cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. We have entered into a series of receive-variable, pay-fixed interest rate swaps. We use interest rate swap agreements to hedge market risks relating to possible adverse changes in interest rates with the intent of reducing volatility in our cash flows due to fluctuations in interest rates. However, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk, may prove disadvantageous, or may create additional risks, including risks discussed in "Risks Related to Our Business" above. In addition, our hedging activities are subject to the risks that a counterparty may not perform its obligations under the applicable derivative instrument.If the financial institutions that are lenders under the Credit Facility fail to extend credit under the facility, our liquidity and results of operations may be adversely affected.One of our sources of liquidity is the Credit Facility. Each financial institution that is a lender under the Credit Facility is responsible on a several but not joint basis for providing a portion of the loans to be made under the facility. If any participant or group of participants with a significant portion of the commitments under the Credit Facility fails to satisfy its or their respective obligations to extend credit under the facility and we are unable to find a replacement for such participant or participants on a timely basis (if at all), our liquidity may be adversely affected. Our overall level of indebtedness may hinder our ability to negotiate favorable terms with our vendors, suppliers or other creditors, which could negatively impact our operating performance and, thus, could make it more difficult for us to generate cash flow sufficient to satisfy all of our obligations under our indebtedness.Our overall level of indebtedness may adversely affect our credit profile, which may adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable trade terms from our current or future vendors, including pricing, payment, delivery, inventory, transportation, and other terms, and may increase our need to support merchandise purchases with letters of credit. We may also be unable to negotiate favorable trade terms for our current or future service and non-merchandise vendors, including vendors that assist us in critical aspects of the business such as transportation and logistics, customs, hazardous material, warehousing and storage, insurance and risk management, or procurement. This could negatively impact the profitability of our business and our ability to effectively compete against other businesses in the heavy civil marine construction and commercial concrete construction segments. Thus, our overall level of indebtedness could adversely affect the profitability of our business, which could make it more difficult for us to general cash flow sufficient to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness.Despite our overall level of indebtedness, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further increase the risks to our financial condition described above.Despite our overall level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, including off-balance sheet financings, contractual obligations and general and commercial liabilities. Although the credit agreements governing the the Credit Facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness.In addition, at December 31, 2015, available capacity to borrow on the Revolving Line of Credit was $44.9 million. The addition of new debt to our current debt levels could further exacerbate the related risks to our financial condition.26Table of ContentsFailure to remain in compliance with covenants under our debt and credit agreements, service our indebtedness, or fund our other liquidity needs could adversely impact our business. Our debt and credit agreements and related financial covenants are more fully described in Note 11 of “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.” Our failure to comply with any of these covenants, or to pay principal, interest or other amounts when due thereunder, would constitute an event of default under the applicable agreements. Default under our debt and credit agreements could result in (1) us no longer being entitled to borrow under the agreements; (2) termination of the agreements; (3) the requirement that any letters of credit under the agreements be cash collateralized; (4) acceleration of the maturity of outstanding indebtedness under the agreements; and/or (5) foreclosure on any collateral securing the obligations under the agreements. If we are unable to service our debt obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we could be forced to curtail our operations, reorganize our capital structure (including through bankruptcy proceedings) or liquidate some or all of our assets in a manner that could cause holders of our securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investment in us.Risk Factors Relating to Ownership of Our Common StockA significant increase in the foreign ownership of our publicly traded stock may affect our ability to operate our heavy civil marine construction segment in U.S. waters.Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions limiting ownership of our capital stock by non-U.S. citizens. We perform periodic checks of foreign ownership of our common stock through reports provided by our transfer agent to ensure compliance with the Jones Act, the Dredging Act and other laws regarding the operation of vessels in U.S. waterways. We do not believe that our capital stock owned by non-U.S. citizens is significant in relation to the 25% limitation specified in our certificate of incorporation. However, if we or any of our operating subsidiaries cease to be 75% controlled and owned by U.S. citizens, we would become ineligible to continue our operations in U.S. navigable waters and may become subject to penalties and risk forfeiture of our vessels.The price of our common stock may be volatile.The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, or those of our competitors, public announcements by us or our competitors regarding acquisitions, strategic investments, project awards, the financial market and general economic conditions, changes in stock market analyst recommendations, sales of common stock by our executive officers, directors and/or significant stockholders, as well as reactions to those described above under “Risk Factors Relating to Our Business”.Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors including:•the number and significance of projects executed in a quarter;•fluctuations in spending patterns of our government or commercial customers;•unanticipated changes in contract performance;•delays incurred in connection with a project;•the scope of projects under execution in a quarter;•natural disasters or other crises;•utilization rates; and •general economic and political conditions. These fluctuations in revenue and/or margin may have a material adverse effect on our stock price.In the event we issue stock as consideration for certain acquisitions we may make, we could dilute share ownership. One method of acquiring companies or otherwise funding our corporate activities could be through the issuance of additional equity securities. If we issue additional equity securities, such issuances could have the effect of diluting our earnings per share as well as our existing shareholders’ individual ownership percentages in the Company.Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone27Table of Contents