D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to the Bezeq Group’s Business Competition from other telecommunications providers and recent and potential changes in the competitive environment and communications technologies could adversely affect the Bezeq Group’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Bezeq Group faces significant competition from established and new competitors who provide cellular telephony, fixed-line telephony, fixed-line broadband Internet infrastructure access, ISP and pay television services. In addition to the entrance of new competitors, competition among the existing communications groups in Israel is intensifying. Four main groups, each consisting of companies under common or joint control, hold a significant share of the communications market in Israel today: the Bezeq Group, the Cellcom Group, the Partner Group and the HOT Group. The Bezeq Group’s three principal competitors may in some cases be required to comply with fewer regulations because, among other reasons, they use different technologies to provide their services or do not own their own fixed-line network. In recent years, competition in the cellular telephony industry has intensified. This has led to lower prices and higher customer churn rates, which in turn has affected the Bezeq Group’s results. Bezeq expects competition to continue to increase amid the changing legislation in Israel and consolidation in the telecommunications industry that permits certain service providers to market a combination of fixed-line telephony, fixed-line broadband Internet infrastructure access, ISP and pay television services, or a “bundle”, for an aggregate price which is lower than the price of the individual products and services in the bundle. The Bezeq Group is currently subject to restrictions on marketing bundles, which are stricter than the restrictions applicable to its competitors. In addition, Bezeq expects additional competitive pressure to result from the convergence of broadcasting and communication technologies, as a result of which other participants in the Israeli media and telecommunications industries may seek to offer bundles of fixed-line telephony and cellular telephony, Internet and/or video broadcast services in competition with it. These competitive forces may create further downward pressure on prices, which may result in a decrease in the Bezeq Group’s average revenue per user, or ARPU, and increase the Bezeq Group companies’ churn rates. In addition, the Bezeq Group companies may bear higher costs if they introduce new products or services to maintain or improve their competitive positioning and reduce subscriber churn. Furthermore, technological developments and falling equipment prices could enable other operators to provide services similar to those provided by the Bezeq Group at much lower costs. In combination with difficult economic environments, these competitive pressures could adversely impact the Bezeq Group’s ability to increase, or in certain cases maintain, its ARPUs, operating cash flows and liquidity. 4 In November 2014, following hearings earlier in the year, the Minister of Communications decided to amend the licenses of Bezeq and Hot Telecommunications, the two infrastructure owners in Israel, and to define the basket of services under that license, i.e., managed broadband access and wholesale telephony services. The applicable new regulations include the obligation to provide the services, including accompanying services, and the regulation of maximum rates (which require the Finance Minister’s approval) for the provision of the wholesale services. The ongoing implementation of the wholesale market regulation may have a significant negative impact on the Bezeq Group which cannot be quantified at this time. Nonetheless, the Bezeq Group may in the future be granted a permit to provide non-divisible bundles of services and the structural separation may be cancelled. Fixed-Line Telephony. Competition in the fixed-line telephony market is intense. We believe that competition in this market will continue to increase due to the implementation of the wholesale market, the low barriers to entry and regulations permitting new service providers to provide telephony services using voice over Internet protocol, or VoIP, or voice over broadband, or VoB, technology. Upon application of the wholesale market, ISPs and holders of a general special license will compete with Bezeq, among others, in the provision of service packages that include broadband services, using Bezeq's infrastructure at wholesale prices. Communication operators that compete with Bezeq may buy services from Bezeq at supervised prices, including infrastructure segments, and thus compete with Bezeq by selling complete service packages to their customers. Fixed-Line Broadband Internet Infrastructure Access. Bezeq’s principal competitor in the fixed-line broadband Internet infrastructure access service market is HOT, which is currently the only other fixed-line broadband Internet infrastructure access provider in Israel. Bezeq’s fixed-line broadband Internet infrastructure access services business also faces competition from cellular telephony operators who are increasingly able to utilize a combination of technologically advanced and high bandwidth technologies, such as universal mobile telecommunications system, or UMTS, and long term evolution, or LTE, technology. The Ministry of Communications’ policy for the establishment of a wholesale market for fixed-line telephony and broadband Internet infrastructure access, pursuant to which Bezeq would be required to provide access to its fixed-line broadband Internet network infrastructure to other service providers on a wholesale basis, may increase competition in the fixed-line broadband Internet infrastructure access market. In addition to HOT's cable and optical fiber network and the optical fiber infrastructures of Cellcom and Partner, there are in Israel today a number of infrastructures with the potential to serve as communications infrastructures based on optical fibers, which are mostly owned by government companies and bodies. Among these are the infrasructures of the Israel Electric Corporation (IEC), Israel Railways, Mekorot Israel National Water Company, Petroleum & Energy Infrastructure Ltd. and Cross Israel Highway Ltd. Some municipalities are also trying to create an alternative to communications license holders by deploying their own infrastructures. In August 2013, IBC Israel Broadband Company (2013) Ltd., or IBC, (60% of which is owned by a group of investors headed by the ViaEurope Group and 40% is owned by IEC) was granted a general license for the provision of communication infrastructure services (i.e., data communications, digital transmission and VPN) over fiber optics. In accordance with the license, IBC will enter into an agreement with IEC to obtain the right to use its fiber-optics network and will become the network’s operator. In addition, IBC is entitled to use the communication facilities of another operator. Pursuant to the provisions of the license, IBC was obligated to make a gradual universal deployment over a period of 20 years. At the same time, IBC received a special license for the provision of domestic fixed data-communication services, according to which it is entitled to provide IP/VPN services and broadband data-communication lines for a period of five years (with the option to request an extension). This special license does not necessitate the provision of universal services to all the residents in Israel. Bezeq estimates that the significant relief granted to IBC in respect of the obligation to provide universal service (the option to make a gradual universal deployment over a long period of time), the granting of a special license for the provision of data-communication services without providing universal service, and the possibility that IBC will be allowed to receive wholesale infrastructure services from Bezeq may adversely affect Bezeq’s operations and its financial results. 5 Cellular Telephony. The cellular telephony market in Israel is a saturated market with a penetration level in excess of 100%. Until 2012, three cellular telephony operators, Cellcom, Partner and Pelephone, led the Israeli cellular telephony market. During 2012, a number of other cellular telephony operators began to operate, including Golan Telecom and HOT Mobile, which has led to intensified competition, resulting in higher churn rates among the existing operators, a significant decrease in tariffs and, consequently, a decrease in profits. Pelephone’s current principal competitors, Cellcom, Partner and HOT Mobile, also provide ISP services and fixed-line communications, and they market a variety of joint service packages. Pelephone also faces competition from mobile virtual network operators, or MVNOs, that provide cellular telephony services under their own brand using the network infrastructure of another service provider. Following the Israeli government’s decision to encourage competition in the cellular market, 11 MVNO licenses were granted to virtual operators. We believe that only four of the MVNO licensees currently provide services: Rami Levy Cellular Communications Ltd., or Rami Levy, and Alon Blue Square Israel Ltd., or Alon Cellular, (both of which signed hosting agreements with Pelephone), Azi Communications (which signed a hosting agreement with Partner) and Home Cellular (which signed a hosting agreement with Cellcom). The Ministry of Communications has recently taken active steps to increase competition in the fixed-line and cellular telecommunications industries, including eliminating termination fees that operators can charge (except in limited circumstances) and since January 2013, prohibiting linkage of the price and terms of handset sales to the services or benefits of the cellular contract. The Ministry of Communications formed an inter-ministerial task force to review regulation of the sharing of cellular infrastructures in Israel. In July 2011, the Ministry of Communications issued the following key recommendations of the inter-ministerial task force: • to determine a model of forced sharing of cellular infrastructure, while giving preference to the possibility of enabling the new operators (such as HOT Mobile and Golan Telecom) to share sites; • a permit to set up a cellular site will be conditional on a proposal for sharing such sites with all operators; cellular telephony operators will be required to erect sites that facilitate sharing with up to four participants; • all the components and infrastructures used for broadcasting from the facility will be shared, excluding active designated equipment (radio equipment); the costs of sharing sites will be shared; and • all license holders will be required to reduce the number of unshared sites each year. If the foregoing recommendations are enacted into legislation, they could impose significant restrictions on Pelephone’s ability to expand its network. In November 2013, Partner and HOT Mobile announced that they had entered into a 15-year network sharing agreement, the scope and terms of which are subject to approvals by the Israeli authorities, including the Israeli Antitrust Authority. Pursuant to the network sharing agreement, the parties agreed to form a joint venture, which will own, develop and operate a cellular network to be shared by both companies. As an intermediate measure, Partner and HOT Mobile have entered into a rights of use agreement, which will be valid until no later than December 31, 2016, under which Partner will grant HOT Mobile, when possible, rights of use of its cellular network in order to supplement HOT Mobile’s network coverage. On December 9, 2013, Pelephone entered into an agreement with Cellcom and Golan Telecom for the construction and operation of a shared 4G network and an agreement with Cellcom for the sharing of passive elements of cell sites for existing networks. Effectiveness of each of the agreements is subject to the approval of the Ministry of Communications and the Israeli Antitrust Commissioner, as well as an additional indefeasible right of use agreement between Cellcom and Golan Telecom for the use of Cellcom’s 2G and 3G radio networks. There is no assurance that the agreements will receive the requisite regulatory approvals. If either of the network sharing agreements obtains the requisite approvals and becomes effective while the other does not, the competitive position of the parties to the agreement that has not been approved could be adversely affected. International Telephony. The ILD market in Israel is characterized by a high degree of competition. At the end of 2012, there were eight companies offering ILD services to private and business customers in Israel. Changes in licensing policies and the expanded use of VoIP technology have significantly reduced the barriers of entry into this market. In addition, during 2012, cellular telephony operators began to offer ILD services as part of the unlimited packages they offered. In addition, a recent hearing published by the Ministry of Communications proposes the adoption of a new regulatory regime allowing domestic fixed-line operators and cellular telephony operators to provide ILD services as part of the service packages they offer to their subscribers. We expect competition in this market, including price competition, to increase in the future. Internet Service Providers. Access to broadband Internet in Israel requires households to purchase Internet access services from a licensed ISP and broadband Internet infrastructure access services from a separate provider. While there are only two fixed-line broadband Internet infrastructure access service providers in Israel (Bezeq and HOT), many telecommunication companies hold ISP licenses in Israel, including Bezeq International, 013 Netvision (which merged with Cellcom), 012 Smile (which merged with Partner), HOT Net and numerous minor niche players. The Israeli ISP market is a saturated market and as competitors are typically unable to differentiate themselves based on price, they attempt to differentiate themselves primarily by strengthening customer loyalty; however, competition has led to increased churn rates and reduced income per customer. 6 Pay Television. The Israeli television market is characterized by a very high penetration rate and an increasing emphasis on new television technology, in particular digital, HD and interactive television services, such as VOD, requiring high-bandwidth and bi-directional distribution platforms. In the multi-channel pay television market, YES and HOT are the only two companies in Israel licensed to provide multi-channel pay television broadcasts. Other factors impacting competition in the market include the availability of free-to-air digital terrestrial television, or DTT, channels and the increasing availability and quality of video content offered over the Internet and cellular networks, which is not currently regulated and does not require designated infrastructure. We believe that the implementation of certain regulatory changes, including the expansion in the number and variety of free-to-air DTT channels and the possible appointment of a private entity to operate the DTT system instead of the Second Authority, which is the public authority that supervises commercial broadcasting in Israel, may increase competition in the television market. There can be no assurance that the measures taken by the Bezeq Group companies to streamline their operations and improve the services they provide to differentiate themselves from their competitors will be successful. If the Bezeq Group companies are unsuccessful in their efforts, the Bezeq Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The Bezeq Group operates in a highly regulated telecommunications market, which limits its flexibility in managing its business and may materially and adversely affect its results of operations. The Bezeq Group operates in a highly regulated industry in Israel, which limits its flexibility in managing its business efficiently, and may increase its administrative and operational expenses and limit its revenue. The Bezeq Group is subject to government supervision and regulation relating to, among other things: • regulations requiring structural separation between the members of the Bezeq Group; • regulations restricting the Bezeq Group’s ability to market bundles; • price regulation for certain services that the Bezeq Group provides; • rules and regulations imposed on telecommunications service providers with significant market share; • rules governing the interconnection between different telephone networks and the interconnection rates that the Bezeq Group can charge and pay; • regulations governing the prohibition of exit-fees or cancellation charges; • regulations requiring the Bezeq Group to grant other telecommunications operators access to its infrastructure; • regulations governing roaming charges and other billing and customer service matters; • rules for authorizations, licensing, acquisitions, renewals, pledging and transfers of licenses; • requirements covering a variety of operational areas such as land use, health and safety and environmental protection, technical standards and subscriber service requirements rules and regulations relating to subscriber privacy; • rules and regulations relating to universal service provision and requirements to extend the Bezeq Group’s services to areas of Israel even where it is not economically profitable to do so; and • regulations restricting the number of television channels YES can own and specifying the minimum investment YES is required to make in local content productions. Bezeq’s tariffs for its fixed-line services are subject to government control, which harms its ability to compete and places downward pressure on its tariffs, which adversely affects its business. Bezeq’s tariffs for its main services (including interconnect fees) are subject to government control and intervention. The Minister is authorized to intervene in existing tariffs and marketing offerings and impose directives on Bezeq. On average, Bezeq’s controlled tariffs erode in real terms. Significant changes in controlled tariffs, if implemented, could have a materially adverse effect on Bezeq's business and financial results. Furthermore, the limitations applicable to Bezeq in marketing alternative tariff packages could create difficulties for Bezeq in offering an appropriate competitive response to changes in the market. In the context of the application of a wholesale market, the Ministry of Communications has the power to set the price for which Bezeq will sell its services to license holders. The low prices determined may adversely affect Bezeq's level of revenues and profits. 7 The Bezeq Group is subject to restrictions on intercompany relations with its principal subsidiaries, which harms its ability to compete and adversely affects its business. Bezeq’s general license for domestic fixed-line communication services obligates it to ensure that its relationships with its principal subsidiaries do not result in favoring them over their competitors. Bezeq is also subject to various limitations as a result of the State of Israel declaring it a monopoly in the fixed-line services business. In addition, Bezeq is subject to limitations set forth in merger approvals granted by the Israeli Antitrust Authority. As a result of such limitations, separation of Bezeq and its principal subsidiaries’ management, financial and marketing systems, assets and employees is required, which results in high administrative overheads. Bezeq is also subject to limitations with respect to the offering of bundles with its principal subsidiaries, which adversely impacts its business, particularly in light of the entry into the market of communications companies competing directly with Bezeq in most of its areas of operation based on the provision of bundled services to the customer. Potential health risks related to cellular network sites and cellular telecommunication devices could have a material adverse effect on Pelephone’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Several lawsuits have been filed against cellular telephony operators and other participants in the cellular industry alleging adverse health effects and other claims relating to radio frequency transmissions to and from sites, handsets and other cellular telecommunications devices, including lawsuits against Pelephone. Although these lawsuits were settled during 2013 with no material expenses incurred, there can be no guarantee that potential future lawsuits will have favorable outcomes. Any exposure to such liabilities could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Pelephone takes steps to ensure that the levels of radiation emitted by its transmission facilities, equipment and devices do not exceed the levels of radiation permitted in the directives of the Israeli Ministry of Environmental Protection which align with international standards. However, health risks may be found to exist and transmission sites or devices and equipment may emit more radiation than that allowed in radiation standards, causing a risk to health, which may have an adverse effect on Pelephone’s business and could result in a reduction in the use of cellular telephony services, difficulty in renting sites, claims for physical and property damages in substantial amounts and attempts to exercise the deeds of indemnity that Pelephone deposited with the planning authorities pursuant to the Planning and Construction Law. Pelephone’s third-party liability insurance policy does not currently cover electromagnetic radiation. Under the Planning and Construction Law, local planning committees may be held liable for the depreciation of the value of nearby properties as a result of approving a building plan or permit. Under the Israeli Radiation Law, the National Council for Planning and Construction requires indemnification undertakings from cellular companies as a precondition to obtaining a building permit for new or existing cellular network sites. The National Council has decided that until the national building plan is amended to reflect a different indemnification amount, Pelephone, as well as other cellular telephony operators, will be required to indemnify it in full against all losses resulting from claims for reductions in property values as a result of granting a permit for a cellular site. The Bezeq Group may face difficulties in obtaining some of the building and environmental permits required for the establishment and operation of its network sites, which could have an adverse effect on the coverage, quality and capacity of its network. The Bezeq Group, mainly with respect to its Pelephone cellular telephony operations, is subject to the Israeli Radiation Law, which regulates the emission of electromagnetic radiation from broadcast facilities. The Israeli Radiation Law prohibits, among other things, the erection or operation of a source of radiation in contravention of any applicable permit and the erection or operation of a source of radiation without a permit. After receiving a written warning from the authorities, failure to remedy a violation will subject the permit holder, officers and directors to civil liability or criminal prosecution on a strict liability basis. While the Bezeq Group is constantly working to obtain or renew permits to set up and operate its various broadcasting installations, the policies maintained by the various regulators and amendments to applicable statutes and standards could adversely impact the infrastructure of such installations. Any such adverse impact could affect the services offered over Pelephone’s infrastructure, the result of which could have a material adverse effect on the revenues of the Bezeq Group from such services. The establishment of a broadcasting site without obtaining a building permit constitutes, among other things, a breach of the Planning and Construction Law, and in some instances, this has resulted in demolition orders against sites, indictments or the initiation of civil proceedings against Pelephone and some of its officers. Pelephone has succeeded in most of these instances to avoid demolition or to delay the execution of demolition orders pursuant to arrangements it reached with the planning and building authorities to resolve the lack of licensing. These arrangements have not required any admission of guilt by officers of Pelephone or their conviction. However, it is not certain that this will continue in the future, or that there will be no further instances in which demolition orders are issued and indictments are filed in respect of building permits, including against officers. 8 The establishment and operation of communications facilities in Israel are also subject to building permits from various planning and building committees, a process that involves a number of approvals from Israeli state entities and regulatory bodies. Bezeq’s and Pelephone’s inability to obtain such approvals and permits in the future may impair the quality and capacity of their existing networks and the deployment of new networks. The deployment and manner of set-up of communications facilities in Israel are regulated by the National Outline Plan for Communications 36, or NOP 36, and National Outline Plan for Communications 56 in the Palestinian Administered Territories, or NOP 56. These plans were designed to ensure coverage for transmitting and receiving radio, television and wireless communications, while avoiding radiation hazards, minimizing damage to the environment and simplifying and increasing the efficiency of the processes involved in setting up new facilities. Difficulties in obtaining approvals for the erection and operation of cellular network sites and other cellular network infrastructure could have an adverse effect on the extent, coverage and capacity of our cellular network, thus impacting the quality of the Bezeq Group’s voice and data services and ability to continue to market its products and services effectively. Pelephone, like the other cellular telephony operators in Israel, provides repeaters, also known as bi-directional amplifiers, to subscribers seeking an interim solution to weak signal reception within specific indoor locations. Due to the lack of a clear policy of the local planning and building authorities, and in light of the practice of the other cellular telephone operators, Pelephone has not requested permits under the Planning and Construction Law for the repeaters. If the local planning and building authorities determine that permits under the Planning and Construction Law are also necessary for the installation of these devices, or any other receptors that Pelephone believes do not require a building permit, it could have a negative impact on its ability to obtain permits for its repeaters. Approximately 20% of the Bezeq Group’s cell sites are wireless access devices that operate in reliance on an exemption from the requirement to obtain a building permit. Bezeq Group’s reliance on the exemption for wireless access devices have been challenged and is currently awaiting ruling by the Israeli Supreme Court. Under an interim order issued by the Supreme Court in September 2010, the Bezeq Group is unable to further construct wireless access devices in cellular networks in reliance on the exemption. Under a decision of the Supreme Court of February 2011, the order will not apply to the replacement of existing wireless access devices under certain conditions. In September 2011, the interim order was relaxed to allow two new UMTS operators, Hot Mobile and Golan Telecom, to construct wireless access devices in reliance on the exemption until July 31, 2012 and was thereafter extended several times until April 2014. Should the Israeli Supreme Court determine that all wireless access devices without building permits must be removed, it could have a negative impact on Pelephone and the Bezeq Group. The Bezeq Group’s systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption, which could expose it to material risk of loss or litigation. The Bezeq Group provides services using various infrastructure systems that include exchanges, transmission, data communication and access systems, cables and computerized systems. Any failure to manage the growth and complexity of the Bezeq Group’s networks could lead to a degradation of service and network disruptions that could harm its reputation and result in a loss of subscribers. Furthermore, Pelephone’s cellular telephony business uses two frequency ranges, 850 MHz, 2100 MHz, and 15 MHz of bandwidth within the 1800 MHz, which are exposed to interruptions that could impair the service quality of the networks that Pelephone operates. Although some of the Bezeq Group’s systems have backup, damage to some or all of these systems, whether due to a technical fault or natural disaster, could cause extreme difficulties in providing services. If any part of the Bezeq Group’s infrastructure, including its IT systems, cellular information systems, communications lines, antenna sites, equipment or technology becomes subject to a flood, fire, other natural disaster, terrorism, acts of war, a computer virus, a power loss, material bugs in software or other catastrophe or unauthorized access, its operations and customer relations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, disaster recovery, security and service continuity protection measures that the Bezeq Group companies have, or may in the future undertake, and their monitoring of network performance, may be insufficient to prevent losses. Although no incidents have occurred in numbers that are statistically significant, the Bezeq Group’s networks and other technical equipment have been, and may continue to be, subject to occasional malfunctions due to material bugs in software or technical shortcomings or imperfect interfaces with equipment in private homes, the networks of other operators or its own networks or with other surrounding equipment. The Bezeq Group might incur liabilities or reputational damages as a result of such malfunctions. In addition, the Bezeq Group accumulates, stores and uses data in the ordinary course of its operations that is protected by data protection laws. Although the Bezeq Group takes precautions to protect subscriber and employee data in accordance with the applicable Israeli privacy requirements, it may fail to do so, and certain subscriber and employee data may be leaked or otherwise used inappropriately. Violation of data protection laws may result in fines, loss of reputation and subscriber churn and could have an adverse effect on the Bezeq Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Spectrum availability in Israel is limited. Pelephone’s assigned frequency may not easily support the implementation of new technologies, which could have an adverse effect on Pelephone’s competitive position in the cellular market. Spectrum availability in Israel is limited and is allocated by the Ministry of Communications through a licensing process. In recent years, the Israeli government has been coping with a shortage of frequencies by limiting the number of licenses issued. In certain situations, the 850/2100 MHz frequencies available to Pelephone may not easily support the implementation of new technologies emerging in the cellular communication sector, which could make it difficult for Pelephone to implement them. Pelephone’s frequencies are exposed to interference and could impair service quality of networks operated by Pelephone. The factors that could cause interference include among other things, the fact that the 850 MHz frequency is also used for terrestrial television broadcasts and by television stations broadcasting in the Middle East, which use could cause interference in Pelephone’s networks. On January 21, 2015, Pelephone participated in an online tender held by the State of Israel for the allocation of 4G LTE frequencies. Under the tender, Pelephone received 15 MHz of bandwidth within the 1800 MHz spectrum, at a total cost of NIS 96 million. Bezeq Group companies are parties to legal proceedings, which could result in them being ordered to pay significant sums. The Bezeq Group companies are parties to legal proceedings, including class actions, which could result in them being ordered to pay significant sums. Class action claims can relate to a small loss for a single customer and yet can become a material claim for the Bezeq Group, if certified as a class action applicable to all customers or a significant portion of them. In addition, since Bezeq provides communications infrastructure as well as billing services to other licensees, parties suing those licensees in other class actions may also try to involve Bezeq as a party to such proceedings. The markets in which the Bezeq Group operates are characterized by material capital investments in infrastructure, subscriber equipment and changing technology, which imposes a heavy financial burden on the Bezeq Group and consequently, its capital expenditures may not generate a positive return. The markets in which the Bezeq Group operates are characterized by material capital investments in infrastructure and subscriber equipment as a result of changing technology. The frequent technological changes in infrastructure and terminal equipment and the intense competition in various market segments impose a heavy financial burden on the companies operating in the telecommunications market, requiring them to update their infrastructure technology from time to time or to introduce new devices into the market at heavy cost. The development of new technologies can render existing technologies obsolete, resulting in the need for large monetary investments in order to retain a competitive position. The Bezeq Group’s future success will depend on its ability to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new infrastructure and subscriber equipment that keep pace with technological developments. If the Bezeq Group is unable to respond promptly and effectively to changing technology, it will be unable to compete effectively in the future and its business could be adversely affected. No assurance can be given that the Bezeq Group’s recent or future capital expenditures will generate a positive return or that it will have adequate capital available to finance such future upgrades. If the Bezeq Group is unable to, or elects not to, pay for costs associated with expanding or upgrading its networks, or making other capital expenditures, its growth and competitive position could be materially adversely affected. The Bezeq Group requires licenses from the Ministry of Communications to operate its business and is subject to monitoring and enforcement by the regulator. The Bezeq Group conducts its operations pursuant to licenses granted by the Ministry of Communications for specified periods, which may be extended for additional periods upon request. There is no certainty that such licenses will be renewed or extended in the future and any cancellation or change in the terms of the Bezeq Group’s licenses may materially affect its business and results of operations, including the immediate acceleration of some of its debt. Although we believe that the Bezeq Group is currently in compliance with all material requirements of its licenses, the interpretation and application of the technical standards used to measure these requirements, including the minimum quality standards and other license provisions, disagreements may arise in the future between the Ministry of Communications and the Bezeq Group. In addition, following recent amendments to the Communications Law introducing administrative enforcement, the Bezeq Group may be subjected to administrative enforcement proceedings and monetary sanctions. The Bezeq Group has provided significant bank guarantees to the Ministry of Communications to guarantee its performance under its licenses. If the Bezeq Group is found to be in material breach of its licenses, the guarantees may be forfeited and the licenses may be revoked. In addition, the Ministry of Communications is authorized to levy significant fines for breaches of the Bezeq Group’s licenses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Bezeq Group’s financial condition or results of operations. 10 Under the Concentration Law, Bezeq and each corporation owned by Bezeq and by the Eurocom Group (a private telecommunications group in Israel that has investments in telecommunications, satellite services, media, consumer electronic products, real estate, financial services and additional fields) is deemed a “Concentrating Entity,” within the meaning of the Concentration Law. In addition, YES is deemed to be an influential entity in the broadcasting field and, as a result, it too is deemed a “Concentrating Entity.” Accordingly, each award of rights (including the award of a license) by a governmental authority in an “Essential Infrastructure Field,” within the meaning of the Concentration Law, and the extension of existing licenses held by any of the Bezeq Group companies, are subject to the procedures set out in the Concentration Law, including the consideration of control concentration factors and factors relating to the promotion of an industry’s competitiveness, as well as consulting with the Committee for Reducing Concentration. The governmental authority and the Committee are obliged to consider, among other things, factors concerning the prevention of the expansion of the operations of the “Concentrating Entity.” If, as a result of the implementation of the procedures under the Concentration Law, a license is not granted to a Bezeq Group company or an existing license is not extended, the Bezeq Group’s business could be adversely impacted. Furthermore, some of the competitors of the Bezeq Group companies are not, and future competitors may not, be deemed a Concentrating Entity and therefore, are not subject to the foregoing restricting procedures which could give them a competitive advantage over the Bezeq Group companies. The Bezeq Group’s brands are subject to reputational risks. The Bezeq Group’s brands are well recognized in Israel. The Bezeq Group companies, including Bezeq, Pelephone, Bezeq International and YES, have developed their brands through extensive marketing campaigns, website promotions, customer referrals, and the use of sales forces and dealer networks. The Bezeq Group’s brands represent a material and valuable asset. Although the Bezeq Group companies try to manage their brands, we cannot guarantee that such brands will not be damaged by any inability to remain technologically competitive, by circumstances that are external their control or by third parties with a resulting negative impact on the Bezeq Group’s activities. The Bezeq Group’s results of operations are subject to market risks such as currency fluctuations, inflation in Israel and the general economic environment and financial condition of the capital markets in Israel and worldwide. The Bezeq Group’s results of operations are subject to market risks such as currency fluctuations, the general economic conditions, inflation in Israel and the financial condition of the capital market in Israel and worldwide. The Bezeq Group measures exposure to changes in exchange rates and inflation by the surplus or deficit of assets against liabilities. In addition, Bezeq is exposed to inflationary changes in Israel as well as to market risks associated with changes to the interest rates relating to its borrowings. In addition, Bezeq’s tariff updating mechanism, which is subject to government regulation, is reviewed once a year and is influenced by the Israeli Consumer Price Index, or CPI. As a result, the annual rate of inflation and its distribution during the year can have a material influence on the erosion of Bezeq’s tariffs and its revenues and expenses during the year, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on its operating results. From time to time, the Bezeq Group engages in currency hedging transactions to reduce the impact on its cash flows and results of operations of currency fluctuations. The Bezeq Group recognizes freestanding derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities in the statements of financial position and it measures those instruments at fair value. However, accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument, such as a currency hedging instrument, depends on the intended use of the derivative instrument and the resulting designation. For derivative instruments that are not designated as cash flow hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in our income statement without any reference to the change in value of the related budgeted expenditures. These differences could result in fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. Negative developments in, or the general weakness of, Israel’s economy, in particular increasing levels of unemployment, may have a direct negative impact on the spending patterns of retail consumers, both in terms of the products they subscribe for and usage levels. Because a substantial portion of the Bezeq Group’s revenue is derived from residential subscribers who may be impacted by these conditions, such conditions may make it more difficult for the Bezeq Group to attract new subscribers, more likely that certain of its subscribers will downgrade or disconnect their services and make it more difficult to maintain ARPUs at existing levels. In addition, there can be no assurance that deterioration in the Israeli economy would not lead to a higher number of customers defaulting on their contracts or increased levels of service disconnections. Therefore, a weak economy and negative economic developments may jeopardize the Bezeq Group’s growth targets and may have a material adverse effect on the Bezeq Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 The Bezeq Group could be subject to labor disruptions that interfere with its operations and adversely affect the Bezeq Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Bezeq Group could be subject to labor disputes and adverse employee relations which could disrupt its operations and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of its employeesis represented by labor unions, and it is possible that such employees, and our other employees, could attempt to take collective action against companies in the Bezeq Group if they are unhappy with their employment conditions. Existing employment agreements with the employees and labor union agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage in the future. There can be no assurance that the Bezeq Group will not experience labor disputes and/or adverse employee relations in the future. The Bezeq Group depends on hardware, software and other providers of outsourced services, who may discontinue their services or products, seek to charge prices that are not competitive or choose not to renew their contracts. The Bezeq Group has important relationships with several suppliers of hardware, software and related services that are used to operate its businesses. In certain cases, substantial investments have been made in the equipment or software of a particular supplier, making it difficult to quickly change supply and maintenance relationships in the event that the initial supplier refuses to offer favorable prices or ceases to produce equipment or provide the support that the Bezeq Group requires. Further, in the event that hardware or software products or related services are defective, it may be difficult or impossible to enforce recourse claims against suppliers, especially if warranties included in contracts with suppliers have expired or are exceeded by those in the Bezeq Group companies’ contracts with their subscribers, in individual cases, or if the suppliers are insolvent, in whole or in part. In addition, there can be no assurances that the Bezeq Group will be able to obtain the hardware, software and services it needs for the operation of its business, in a timely manner, at competitive terms and in adequate amounts. The Bezeq Group’s key suppliers include the following: • Bezeq: Supplier Name Area of Expertise Alcatel Metro transmission Juniper Networks Metro transmission Dialogic Networks (Israel) Ltd. Transfer exchanges for connecting operators to the Bezeq’s switching network Comverse Ltd. Switching networks for end customers in the NGN Adtran Holdings Ltd. Access systems to the NGN EMC Hardware and backup, restoration and survivability solutions for systems and infrastructures VMware Infrastructure for most of the virtualization of the servers • Pelephone: Apple Distribution International, Ericsson, Nortel and Motorola. • Bezeq International: British Telecom and MedNautilus. • YES: Eurocom Digital, Advanced Digital Broadcast S.A., Pace Micro Technology PLC, Altech Multimedia International (Pty) Ltd. and NDS Ltd. The Bezeq Group’s ability to renew its existing contracts with suppliers of products or services, or enter into new contractual relationships upon the expiration of such contracts, either on commercially attractive terms, or at all, depends on a range of commercial and operational factors and events, which may be beyond its control. The occurrence of any of these risks could create technical problems, damage the Bezeq Group’s reputation, result in the loss of customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Bezeq Group may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, which could have an adverse impact on its businesses or operating results. The Bezeq Group is subject to the risk of intellectual property rights claims against it. The Bezeq Group has in the past and may in the future be subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of other parties’ proprietary rights. In addition to claims relating to broadcasts on channels YES owns, it may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims with respect to programs broadcast on foreign channels that it carries. Successful challenges to YES’s rights to intellectual property could require YES to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question. This could require a change in business practices and limit the ability to provide customers with the content that they expect. If YES is required to take any of these actions, it could have an adverse impact on its businesses or operating results. 12 Even if the claims of intellectual property infringement are without merit, defending against the claims can be time-consuming and costly and divert management’s attention and resources away from its businesses. Israeli law relating to intellectual property contains provisions allowing the owner of an intellectual property right to apply to Israeli courts to grant various enforcement measures and other remedies, such as temporary and permanent injunctive relief and a right to confiscate infringing goods and damages. If any of these claims succeed, the Bezeq Group may be forced to pay damages or may be required to obtain licenses for the infringing product or service and may incur liabilities or reputational damages as a result. If the Bezeq Group cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, it may be forced to stop using or selling the products and services, which could adversely affect its ability to provide certain services and products. Barriers to entry in the Israeli domestic fixed-line communications segment have lessened considerably in recent years. Operating in the Israeli domestic fixed-line communications segment requires receipt of the appropriate domestic fixed-line licenses. Traditionally, the main barrier to entry in this segment arose from the need for heavy investment in technological infrastructure and in surrounding systems, which were necessary to achieve economies of scale, and from high costs involving the establishment of marketing, sales, collection and customer support systems and the building of a brand. In recent years, these traditional barriers to entry into the Bezeq Group’s segments of operation have lessened considerably as a result of the following factors: technological improvements, lower infrastructure and equipment prices, easing of regulations applying to new competitors and the mandatory obligation to allow Bezeq’s competitors to use the fixed-line infrastructures and services of Bezeq and HOT. In August 2013, IBC, a telecommunications joint venture between the government-owned IEC and a consortium of non-government companies that was selected by the IEC in a tender procedure, was granted a general license for the provision of telecommunications infrastructure services (including data services, digital transmissions and VPN) via fiber optic networks to telecommunication services providers. According to the license, IBC will enter into an agreement with the IEC to use the IEC’s fiber optic network in Israel to provide such wholesale products to telecommunication services providers. If IBC is successful, it would compete with Bezeq and HOT in the wholesale market, as well as providing such services directly to large business customers. IBC has begun operating in several cities and announced its intention to begin operating in additional cities in 2015. Unlike the other communications groups, Bezeq Group is at present, subject to the stricter limitations. The regulation of competition in VoB-based telephony, which enables telephony services to be provided based on a broadband Internet infrastructure of another operator without need for an independent fixed-line infrastructure (and competition based on dividing the network into sections and wholesale sale of services), significantly reduces the size of investment required from those competing with Bezeq, thereby lowering the barriers to entry in the fixed-line segment. If YES is unable to obtain attractive programming on satisfactory terms for its pay television services, the demand for these services could be reduced, which could adversely affect its revenue and profitability. The success of YES’s services depends on access to an attractive selection of television programming from content providers. The ability to provide movie, sports, popular series and other programming, including VOD content, is a major factor that attracts subscribers to pay television services, especially premium services. If YES was unable to obtain high-quality content, it could limit YES’s ability to incentivize customers to migrate from lower priced packages to higher tier programming, which would inhibit its ability to execute its business strategy. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that YES will continue to be able to obtain an attractive selection of television programming, obtain exclusive rights to certain programming, or that the local content that YES provides will continue to be successful. Any or all of these factors could result in reduced demand for, and lower revenue and profitability from, YES’s satellite broadcast services. Adverse decisions of tax authorities or changes in tax treaties, laws, rules or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on the Bezeq Group’s results of operations and cash flow. The tax laws and regulations in Israel may be subject to change and there may be changes in interpretation and enforcement of tax law. As a result, we and the Bezeq Group may face increases in taxes payable if tax rates increase, or if tax laws and regulations are modified by the competent authorities in an adverse manner. We regularly assess the likelihood of such outcomes and have established tax provisions which represent management’s best estimate of the potential assessments. The Israeli Tax Authority may challenge certain positions that we and the Bezeq Group have adopted in the past or that we and the Bezeq Group may adopt in the future. The resolution of any of these tax matters could differ from the amount we or Bezeq have reserved, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Our success depends on the continued service of certain key executives and personnel. The Bezeq Group’s key executives and employees possess substantial knowledge of its business and operations. We cannot assure you that the Bezeq Group will be successful in retaining their services or that the Bezeq Group would be successful in hiring and training suitable replacements without undue costs or delays. As a result, the loss of any of these key executives and employees could cause significant disruptions in the Bezeq Group’s business operations, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Company We have a substantial amount of existing debt, which could restrict our financing and operating flexibility and have other adverse consequences; our ability to repay our debt may be affected by Bezeq’s dividend distribution policy and the amount of dividends we receive from Bezeq. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of April 27, 2015, we had approximately NIS 3.7 billion (approximately $1 billion) of debt. Our significant level of debt could have important consequences, including, but not limited to, the following: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations and liabilities; • making us vulnerable to, and reducing our flexibility to respond to, general adverse economic and industry conditions; • requiring that a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be dedicated to servicing debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us to fund working capital, or other general corporate purposes; • impeding our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing and increasing the cost of any such borrowing, particularly due to the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt; and • adversely affecting public perception of us. See Item 5B. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The terms of the indentures governing our 7⅜% Senior Secured Notes and our Series B Debentures contain a number of significant covenants or other provisions that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. These covenants restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness and issue certain preferred stock; • use the proceeds of any dividends received from the Bezeq Group and make certain restricted payments and investments; • create or incur certain liens; • impose restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or other payments to us; • transfer or sell ownership interests in the Bezeq Group; • merge or consolidate with other entities; • impair the security interest for the benefit of holders of the Notes; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. All of these limitations will be subject to significant exceptions and qualifications, including the ability to pay dividends, make investments or to make significant prepayments of shareholder debt. However, these covenants could limit our ability to finance our future operations and our ability to pursue business opportunities and activities that may be in our interest. In addition, our ability to comply with these restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition to limiting our flexibility in operating our business, the breach of any covenants or obligations under the agreements and instruments governing our debt will result in a default under the applicable debt agreement or instrument and could trigger acceleration of the related debt, which in turn could trigger defaults under other agreements governing our debt. If we are unable to repay those amounts, our creditors could proceed against any collateral granted to them to secure repayment of those amounts. As a result, a default under any of the agreements governing our debt could materially adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Our operating results are subject to material risks such as fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NIS, fluctuations in the Israeli consumer price index and in interest rates. We report our financial results in NIS. Bezeq receives payments in NIS for most of its sales. As a result, fluctuations in rates of exchange between NIS and the U.S. dollar may affect our operating results and financial condition. As a result of our issuance of 7⅜% Senior Secured Notes in February 2014, we incurred $800 million of U.S. denominated debt that is subject to exchange rate fluctuations. Although we have entered into certain hedging arrangements to protect against certain foreign currency exchange rate risks associated with the Notes, such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from foreign currency variations. Gains or losses associated with hedging activities also may negatively impact operating results. In addition, if one (or more) of our counterparties falls into bankruptcy, claims we have under any such hedging arrangements may become worthless. In addition, in the event that we refinance our debt or otherwise terminate hedging agreements, we may be required to make termination payments, which would result in a loss. We, Internet Gold and other members of the Eurocom Group are subject to the Control Permit for holding the controlling interest in Bezeq. Failure to comply with this permit or other regulatory provisions relating to the control of Bezeq may result in the revocation of the Control Permit and our rights with respect to our Bezeq interest would be adversely impacted, which would materially and adversely affect our business and financial position. Pursuant to the Communications Order, we were required to obtain the prior written consent of the Ministers in order to obtain a permit to acquire the controlling interest in Bezeq. Under the Communications Order, no person may hold, directly or indirectly, “significant influence” over Bezeq or 5% or more of any particular class of Means of Control in Bezeq, nor may any person, together with any other person, appoint, elect or dismiss the general manager of Bezeq or cause the election, appointment or dismissal of any director of Bezeq, without the prior written consent of the Ministers. Subject to certain exceptions, prior written approval of the Ministers is also required to increase the holdings or other rights in excess of those determined in the initial approval, including by means of an agreement (including a voting agreement). No person may transfer control, “significant influence” or Means of Control in Bezeq to another, if, as a result of the transfer, the holdings of the transferee would require approval pursuant to the Israeli Communications Law or Communications Order and the transferor is aware that the transferee is not in possession of the requisite approval. For the foregoing purposes, “significant influence” means the ability to significantly influence the activity of a corporation, whether alone or together with or through others, directly or indirectly, other than as a result of holding Means of Control in that corporation or in another corporation, and including the ability derived from the corporation’s articles of association, a written, oral or other kind of agreement, or from any other source. In this context, the right to appoint an officer or holding 25% of our Means of Control is presumed to confer significant influence. “Means of Control” means the right to vote at a general meeting of the company, appoint a director or general manager of the company, or to participate in the profits of the company or a share of the remaining assets of the company after payment of its debts upon liquidation. The Control Permit includes several conditions, including, among others, the requirement that SP2 be controlled exclusively by the other parties to the Control Permit and that the parties to the Control Permit hold not less than 30% of any type of Means of Control of Bezeq and SP2. In February 2011, the Ministers permitted such percentage to decrease to 29% for a period of six months commencing from the date such holdings fall below 30%, in the event of dilution resulting from the exercise of options by Bezeq employees. In addition, the Control Permit requires that 19% of SP2 be held at all times by an “Israeli Party,” as defined in the Communications Order. The Control Permit also includes certain notice requirements regarding changes in the composition of the board of directors and certain holdings in us and Internet Gold. If we, Internet Gold or any other member of the Eurocom Group subject to the Control Permit fails to comply with the terms of the Control Permit or with other regulatory provisions relating to the control of Bezeq, such permit could be revoked and our rights with respect to our Bezeq interest would be adversely impacted, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial position. Any event in which a receiver is appointed with respect to our holdings in SP2 or SP2’s holdings in Bezeq will constitute grounds for the cancellation of the Control Permit. In addition, in the event that the Ministers determine that a material change in the details included in the application for the Control Permit has occurred or the members to the Control Permit failed to provide requisite notifications in accordance with the Control Permit, and there is a real concern that the essential service provided by Bezeq will be harmed, the Ministers may cancel the Control Permit or set conditions for its continuation pursuant to the provisions of the Israeli Communications Law. In the event that the Control Permit is cancelled and an application to reissue another control permit is denied, our holdings in Bezeq must be liquidated within 15 to 60 days (depending on the cause for such cancellation) pursuant to the Communications Order. 15 In accordance with the Concentration Law, if either we or Internet Gold are unable to delist our ordinary shares from the TASE and redeem any publicly held debt or go private prior to December 10, 2019, we will not be permitted to control Bezeq after such date. Under the recently enacted Concentration Law, a second-tier company (i.e., a company with publicly held debt or equity securities that is subject to reporting obligations under the Israeli Securities Law and controlled by a first-tier company), is prohibited from controlling another tier company. In the case of existing companies, a second-tier company is entitled to continue to control another tier company that it controlled on the publication date of the Concentration Law for a period of six years from the date of publication of the Concentration Law, i.e., until December 10, 2019. In the event that a second-tier company controls another tier company contrary to the provisions of the Concentration Law, a district court may appoint a trustee, who will be awarded the Means of Control in such tier company for the purpose of selling such Means of Control. The trustee shall act pursuant to the orders of such court with respect to the Means of Control. Such court may, instead of appointing a trustee and under certain circumstances, order that the Means of Control held by the controlling shareholder shall not provide any rights whatsoever. Until the appointment of a trustee by a district court, the Means of Control held by a tier company that illegally controls another tier company shall not grant any voting rights at the illegally held tier company’s shareholder meetings. The Concentration Law sets forth certain mechanisms intended to enable a tier company to make various arrangements for the repurchase of its publicly-held shares and the early redemption of publicly-held debt in order to comply with the provisions of the law. Our company is deemed to be a second-tier company under the Concentration Law and Bezeq is deemed to be a third-tier company under the Concentration Law. Accordingly, if either Internet Gold or we are unable to redeem any publicly held debt and delist our ordinary shares from the TASE (which would require 90-days’ prior notice to the TASE) or go private prior to December 10, 2019, we will not be permitted to control Bezeq after such date and our holdings in Bezeq may be transferred to a trustee for the purpose of selling such holdings. Furthermore, if a trustee is appointed, he may motion a district court to order the cancellation of distributions made by Bezeq prior to his appointment if they are deemed to not be in Bezeq’s interest. If we do not maintain control of Bezeq, we may be deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the Investment Company Act, defines an investment company as any issuer that is, holds itself out as being, or proposes to be, primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities and Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act defines an investment company as any issuer that is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire “investment securities” (within the meaning of the Investment Company Act) having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer’s total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. However, an issuer will be deemed not to be an investment company if no more than 45% of the value of such issuer’s total assets (exclusive of government securities and cash items) consists of, and no more than 45% of such issuer’s net income after taxes (for the last four fiscal quarters combined) is derived from, securities other than, among other things, securities issued by companies which are controlled primarily by such issuer. Primary control is presumed if the issuer owns over 25% of the controlled company’s voting securities and the issuer has control greater than that of any other person. Accordingly, so long as we maintain control of Bezeq, we will not be deemed an investment company. If we were to no longer maintain the control of Bezeq, we could, among other things, be required either (i) to change substantially the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being subject to the Investment Company Act or (ii) to register as an investment company. An investment company that is organized under the laws of a foreign country may not register as an investment company, or publicly offer its securities through interstate commerce in the United States, unless the company applies to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), for an order permitting the company to register under the Investment Company Act, and to make a public offering in the United States. The SEC may issue an order granting the application if it finds that, by reason of special circumstances or arrangements, it is both legally and practically feasible effectively to enforce the provisions of the Investment Company Act against the issuer, and further finds that granting the application is otherwise consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors. If we were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with certain affiliates, reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements, and meeting these requirements would be costly, if at all possible. We may fail to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its combined subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting and our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are relatively complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. 16 Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our ordinary shares. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Internet Gold and Eurocom Communications Ltd. Because Internet Gold and Eurocom Communications control a majority of our ordinary shares, investors will not be able to affect the outcome of shareholder votes that require a simple majority. Internet Gold owned approximately 66.71% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of April 27, 2015. For as long as Internet Gold has a controlling interest in our company, it, Mr. Shaul Elovitch, the chairman of our board of directors and the chairman of the board of directors of Internet Gold and its parent, Eurocom Communications, and the controlling shareholder of Eurocom Communications, will have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to potential mergers or other business combinations involving us, our acquisition or disposition of assets, our incurrence of indebtedness, our issuance of any additional ordinary shares or other equity securities, our repurchase or redemption of ordinary shares and our payment of dividends. Similarly, as long as Eurocom Communications has a controlling interest in Internet Gold, our corporate parent, Eurocom Communications and Mr. Elovitch will have the power to determine or significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders that require a simple majority, including the power to elect all of the members of our board of directors (except external directors, within the meaning of Israeli law). Because the interests of Internet Gold and Mr. Elovitch may differ from the interests of our other shareholders, actions taken by Internet Gold with respect to us may not be favorable to our other shareholders. Conflicts of interest may arise between Internet Gold, Eurocom Communications, other companies within the Eurocom Group and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us and result in reduced revenues and income. Conflicts of interest may arise between Internet Gold, Eurocom Communications and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Areas in which conflicts of interest between Internet Gold, Eurocom Communications and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: • Cross officerships, directorships and share ownership. A few of our directors and officers also serve or are employed by Internet Gold and/or Eurocom Communications. The cross officerships and directorships as well as the ownership interests of our directors and officers in the ordinary shares of Internet Gold or Eurocom Communications could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the different companies; and • Intercompany transactions. From time to time, Internet Gold, Eurocom Communications or other companies within the Eurocom Group may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of such companies and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of our independent directors or a committee of disinterested directors and in some instances a vote of shareholders, the terms of any such transactions may not be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm’s-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been volatile and may decrease in the future. The market price of our ordinary shares has been subject to significant price movements and could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: ● Quarterly variations in our operating results; ● Global economic conditions; ● Price movements in the market price of Bezeq’s ordinary shares; ● Operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; ● Changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; ● Regulatory changes that impact pricing of services and competition in Bezeq’s markets; ● Changes in market valuations of other communications companies; 17 ● Announcements of technological innovations or new services by Bezeq or its competitors; ● Announcements by Bezeq or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ● Changes in the status of Bezeq’s intellectual property rights; ● Announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us or Bezeq; ● Additions or departures of key personnel; ● Future sales of our ordinary shares; and ● Stock market price and volume fluctuations. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which would subject our U.S. investors to adverse tax rules. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year in which either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. Based on our current and projected income, assets and activities, we believe that we are not currently a PFIC, but there can be no assurance that we will not be classified as such in the future. If we were classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, complex rules would apply to U.S. investors owning our ordinary shares. Such U.S. investors could suffer adverse U.S. tax consequences. If eligible, a U.S. investor may avoid many of the negative consequences of the PFIC rules by making a “mark-to-market” election (as explained below) for each taxable year in which our company is a PFIC. For more information please see “Item 10. Additional Information – E. Taxation – United States Federal Income Taxation – Passive Foreign Investment Companies.” You are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to you. Risks Related to the Operations of Bezeq and Our Company in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. We and the Bezeq Group companies are organized and based in the State of Israel and Bezeq derives substantially all of its revenues from markets within the State of Israel. As a result, political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Since its establishment in 1948, Israel has been involved in a number of armed conflicts with its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has continued into 2014. In recent years, there was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. Also, since 2011, riots and uprisings in several countries in the Middle East and neighboring regions have led to severe political instability in several neighboring states and to a decrease in the regional security situation. Such instability may affect the local and global economy, could negatively affect business conditions and, therefore, could adversely affect our operations. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in areas that neighbor Israel, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. Although these matters have not had any material effect on our business and results of operations to date, the regional security situation and worldwide perceptions of it are outside our control and there can be no assurance that these matters will not negatively affect us in the future. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of the Bezeq Group’s and our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Bezeq’s operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of its executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in Bezeq’s operations could adversely affect its business. 18 Bezeq may be restricted in the conduct of its operations during periods of national emergency, which could negatively affect its business operations. During periods of national emergency, the Minister of Communications and other governmental authorities may issue various instructions regarding the use of Bezeq’s network, including the use of the network by the Israeli security forces. In addition, the Israeli Equipment Registration and IDF Mobilization Law, 1987 permits the registration, taking and use of engineering equipment and facilities by Israel’s Defense Forces. These actions could adversely affect Bezeq’s business operations. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market Rules. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we may follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, the composition of the board of directors, compensation of officers, director nomination process and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow home country practice instead of the NASDAQ requirement to obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events (such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company). A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the SEC each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. Our shareholders may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us, our executive officers and directors and some of the experts named in this annual report, or asserting U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel and all of our executive officers and directors named in this annual report reside outside the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, all of our assets and most of the assets of our executive officers and directors and some of the experts named in this annual report are located outside the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Provisions of Israeli law, the licenses of Bezeq and our articles of association may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Following our acquisition of the controlling interest in Bezeq, we and our shareholders are required to comply with the Communications Law, the Communications Order and regulations promulgated by the Ministry of Communications. Pursuant to the Communications Order, we were required to obtain the prior written consent of the Ministers in order to acquire the controlling interest in Bezeq. Under the Communications Order, no person may hold, directly or indirectly, “significant influence” over Bezeq or 5% or more of any particular class of means of control in Bezeq, nor may any person, together with any other person, appoint, elect or dismiss the general manager of Bezeq or cause the election, appointment or dismissal of any director of Bezeq, without the prior written consent of the Ministers. Subject to certain exceptions, prior written approval of the Ministers is also required to increase the holdings or other rights in excess of those determined in the initial approval, including by means of an agreement (including a voting agreement). Furthermore, under the Communications Order, no person may transfer control, “significant influence” or means of control in Bezeq to another, if, as a result of the transfer, the holdings of the transferee would require approval pursuant to the Communications Law or Communications Order and the transferee is not in possession of the requisite approval. For the foregoing purposes, “significant influence” means the ability to significantly influence the activity of a corporation, whether alone or together with or through others, directly or indirectly, other than as a result of holding “means of control” in that corporation or in another corporation, and including ability derived from the corporation’s articles of association, a written, oral or other kind of agreement, or from any other source. In this context, the right to appoint an officer and holding 25% of our means of control is presumed to confer significant influence. “Means of control” means the right to vote at a general meeting of the company, to appoint a director or general manager of the company, to participate in the profits of the company or a share of the remaining assets of the company after payment of its debts upon liquidation. 19 Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders, including Israeli shareholders and shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are limited. Moreover, with respect to certain listed share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when the time expires, tax then becomes payable even if no actual disposition of the shares has occurred. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. For additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law, see Item 10B. “Additional Information - Memorandum and Articles of Association” and Item 10E. “Taxation -Israeli Tax Considerations.” The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from those under Delaware law. Because we are an Israeli company, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in a Delaware corporation. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his, her or its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable to shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer of the company has a duty of fairness towards the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. There is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. 