ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this prospectus, including the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of our Company, before deciding to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our Company. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We are dependent on outside suppliers. We do not own any natural gas field and reserve. We obtain our supplies of natural gas from outside supplier. The ability to deliver our product is dependent on a sufficient supply of natural gas and if we are unable to obtain a sufficient natural gas supply, it could prevent us making deliveries to our customers. While we have supply contracts with our suppliers, we do not control the government owned or other suppliers, nor are we able to control the amount of time and effort they put forth on our behalf. It is possible that our suppliers will not perform as expected, and that they may breach or terminate their agreements with us. Any failure to obtain supplies of natural gas could prevent us from delivering such to our customers and could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition. Changes in the regulatory atmosphere could adversely affect our business. The distribution of natural gas and operations of filling stations are highly regulated requiring registrations for the issuance of licenses required by various governing authorities in China. In addition, various standards must be met for filling stations including handling and storage of natural gas, tanker handling, and compressor operation which are regulated. The costs of complying with regulations in the future may harm our business. Furthermore, future changes in environmental laws and regulations could result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability, and increased capital expenditures and operating costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our business operations are subject to a high degree of risk and insurance may not be adequate to cover liabilities resulting from accidents or injuries that may occur. Our operations are subject to potential hazards incident to the gathering, processing, separation and storage of natural gas, such as explosions, product spills, leaks, emissions and fires. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage, and may result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. The occurrence of a significant event for which we are not fully insured or indemnified, and/or the failure of a party to meet its indemnification obligations, could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers reasonable. To date, however, we have maintained adequate coverage at reasonable rates and have experienced no material uninsured losses. We depend on our senior management’s experience and knowledge of the industry and would be adversely affected by the loss of any of our senior managers. We are dependent on the continued efforts of our senior management team. We do not currently have employment contracts with our senior executives, though we are under effort to establish contractual relationship therewith. If, for any reason, our senior executives do not continue to be active in management, our business, or the financial condition of our Company, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we do not maintain life insurance on our senior executives and other key employees. 13 Our inability to fund our capital expenditure requirements may adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our continued growth is dependent upon our ability to generate more revenue from our existing distribution systems and raise capital from outside sources. We believe that in order to continue to capture additional market share, we will have to raise more capital to fund our business operations. In the future we may be unable to obtain the necessary financing on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, and our failure to do so may adversely affect our financial position, competitive position, growth and profitability. Our ability to obtain acceptable financing at any time may depend on a number of factors, including: Our financial condition and results of operations, the condition of the PRC economy and the natural gas industry in the PRC, and conditions in relevant financial markets in the United States, the PRC and elsewhere in t he world. Risks Related to the People’s Republic of China China’s economic policies could affect our business. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. While China’s economy has experienced a significant growth in the past twenty years, growth has been irregular, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by the government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. In recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises; however, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to pa rticular industries or companies. Capital outflow policies in the People’s Republic of China may hamper our ability to remit income to the United States. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency outside of the PRC. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi. Under the existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required in those cases in which Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of the PRC to pay capital expenses, such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PR C government also may at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders. Although we do not import goods into or export goods out of the People’s Republic of China, fluctuation of the RMB may indirectly affect our financial condition by affecting the volume of cross-border money flow. The value of the RMB fluctuates and is subject to changes in the People’s Republic of China political and economic conditions. Since July 2005, the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including USD, has been based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China which are set based upon the interbank foreign exchange market rates and current exchange rates of a basket of currencies on the world financial markets. As of December 31, 2008, the exchange rate between the RMB and the United States dollar was 6.8166RMB to every one USD. We may face obstacles from the communist system in the People’s Republic of China. 14 Foreign companies conducting operations in the People’s Republic of China face significant political, economic and legal risks. The Communist regime in the People’s Republic of China, including a stifling bureaucracy may hinder Western investment. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in The People’s Republic of China. The People’s Republic of China historically has been deficient in Western style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as in modern banking, computer and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in The People’s Republic of China. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Because our assets and operations are located in the P.R.China, you may have difficulty enforcing any civil liabilities against us under the securities and other laws of the United States or any state. We are a holding company, and all of our assets are located in the P.R.China. In addition, our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon these non-residents, or to enforce against them judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. There is uncertainty as to whether courts of the P.R.China would enforce: Judgments of United States courts obtained against us or these non-residents based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or In original actions brought in the P.R.China, liabilities against us or non-residents predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Enforcement of a foreign judgment in the P.R.China also may be limited or otherwise affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties, which could limit law enforcement availability. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, decided legal cases have little precedence. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past 27 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Each of our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates is subject to PRC laws and regulations. However, these laws and regulations change frequently and the interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For instance, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we are entitled to by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authori ties have significant discretion in interpreting statutory and contractual terms, it may be difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative court proceedings and the level of law enforcement that we would receive in more developed legal systems. Such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could affect our business and operation. In addition, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the industries in which we operate, including the promulgation of new laws. This may include changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the availability of law enforcement, including our ability to enforce our agreements with the government entities and other foreign investor s. The admission of China into the World Trade Organization could lead to increased foreign competition. Provincial and central government authorities regulate the natural gas industry for safety and ensure that all areas receive natural gas service. However, as a result of China becoming a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO), restrictions on foreign investment in the industry may be reduced. With China’s need to meet growth in natural gas demand and the WTO’s requirement for a reduction of restrictions on foreign investment as a condition of membership, such events could lead to increased competition in the natural gas industry. 15 PRC laws and regulations governing our businesses and the validity of certain of our contractual arrangements are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, changes in such PRC laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business. We are considered a foreign person or foreign invested enterprise under PRC law. As a result, we are subject to PRC law limitations on foreign ownership of Chinese companies. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The PRC government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of natural gas business and companies, including limitations on our ability to own key assets. The PRC government regulates the natural gas industry including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the natural gas industry. These laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be a violation of applicable laws and regulations. The interpretation and application of existing PRC laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, natural gas businesses in China, including our business. Risks Related to Corporate and Stock Matters Risks related to our common stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price for our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: ¾ Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, ¾ Announcements of new services by us or our competitors, ¾ Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, ¾ Conditions in the energy recycling and saving services market, ¾ Changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies involved in the same industry, ¾ Announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, ¾ Additions or departures of key personnel, ¾ Potential litigation, or ¾ Conditions in the market. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Shareholders could experience substantial dilution. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock to raise additional cash for working capital. If we issue additional shares of our capital stock, our shareholders will experience dilution in their respective percentage ownership in the company. 16 We have no present intention to pay dividends. Neither during the preceding two fiscal years nor during the year ended December 31, 2009, did we pay dividends or make other cash distributions on our common stock, nor do we expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any future earnings for working capital and to finance current operations and expansion of our business. A large portion of our common stock is controlled by a small number of shareholders. A large portion of our common stock is held by a small number of shareholders. As a result, these shareholders are able to influence the outcome of shareholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions including business combinations. In addition, the occurrence of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may affect our stock price and could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. Furthermore, the current ratios of ownership of our common stock reduce the public float and liquidity of our common stock which can in turn affect the market price of our common stock. We may be subject to "penny stock" regulations. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks." Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). Penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC, which specifies information about penny stocks and the nature and significance of risks of the penny stock market. A broker-dealer must also provide the customer w ith bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer, and our sales person in the transaction, and monthly account statements indicating the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules; the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the trading activity in the secondary market for stock that becomes subject to those penny stock rules. These additional sales practice and disclosure requirements could impede the sale of our securities. Whenever any of our securities become subject to the penny stock rules, holders of those securities may have difficulty in selling those securities. 17 