ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION All statements, other than statements of historical fact, included in this Form 10-K, including without limitation the statements under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements involve assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. In our capacity as Company management, we may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements with respect to our long-term objectives or expectations which may be included in our filings with the SEC, reports to stockholders and information provided on our web site. The words or phrases “will likely,” “are expected to,” “is anticipated,” “is predicted,” “forecast,” “estimate,” “project,” “plans to continue,” “believes,” or similar expressions identify “forward-looking statements.” Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical earnings and those presently anticipated or projected. We wish to caution you not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We are calling to your attention important factors that could affect our financial performance and could cause actual results for future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed with respect to future periods in any current statements. The following list of important factors may not be all-inclusive, and we specifically decline to undertake an obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. Among the factors that could have an impact on our ability to achieve expected operating results and growth plan goals and/or affect the market price of our stock are: ● Limited operating history, operating revenue or earnings history. ● Ability to raise capital to fund our current and future operations. ● Ability to develop oil and gas reserves. ● Dependence on key personnel, technical services and contractor support. ● Fluctuation in quarterly operating results. ● Possible significant influence over corporate affairs by significant stockholders. ● Ability to enter into definitive agreements to formalize foreign energy ventures and secure necessary exploitation rights. ● Ability to successfully integrate and operate acquired or newly formed entities and multiple foreign energy ventures and subsidiaries. ● Competition from large petroleum companies and other energy interests. ● Changes in laws and regulations that affect our operations and the energy industry in general. 10 ● Risks and uncertainties associated with exploration, development and production of oil and gas, and drilling and production risks. ● Expropriation and other risks associated with foreign operations. ● Risks associated with anticipated and ongoing third party pipeline construction and transportation of oil and gas. ● The lack of availability of oil and gas field goods and services. ● Environmental risks and changing economic conditions. The Company’s operations and its securities are subject to a number of risks. The Company has described below all significant material risks that are known to the Company that could materially impact the Company’s financial results of operations or financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occur, the financial condition or operating results of the Company and the trading price or value of its securities could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to the Company’s Business The Company’s limited operating history makes it difficult to predict future results and raises substantial doubt as to its ability to successfully develop profitable business operations. The Company’s limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate its current business and prospects or to accurately predict its future revenue or results of operations, and raises substantial doubt as to its ability to successfully develop profitable business operations beyond the Oyo Field interest rights we acquired in April 2010 (the Oyo Contract Rights) and the Non-Oyo Contract Rights acquired in February 2011. We had no previous operating history in the Africa area prior to 2010. The Company’s revenue and income potential are unproven. All of the value of our production and reserves is concentrated in a single block offshore Nigeria, and any production problems or reductions in reserve estimates related to this property would adversely impact our business. All of the value of our production and reserves is concentrated in a single block offshore Nigeria OML 120. Any production problems or reduction in reserve estimates related to this property would adversely impact our business. The Company may continue to incur losses for a significant period of time. In addition to the Oyo Contract Rights we acquired from CEHL in May 2012 we signed four PSC’s in Kenya and two exploration licenses with The Gambia. As we are still in the early stages of exploration and have yet to drill on our Kenyan and Gambian blocks, we expect to continue to incur significant expenses relating to our identification of new ventures and investment costs relating to these ventures. Additionally, fixed commitments, including salaries and fees for employees and consultants, rent and other contractual commitments may be substantial and are likely to increase as additional ventures are entered into and personnel are retained. Energy ventures, such as oil well drilling projects, generally require a significant period of time before they produce resources and in turn generate profits. The Oyo and Non-Oyo Contract Rights may or may not result in net earnings in excess of our losses on other ventures under development or in the start-up phase. We may not achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, or at all. The Company’s ability to execute its business strategy and diversify risks by participating in multiple projects and joint ventures depends upon its ability to raise capital and the availability of suitable prospects, and any failure to raise needed capital and secure suitable projects would negatively affect the Company’s ability to operate and could result in the curtailment or cessation of the Company’s operations. The Company’s business strategy includes spreading the risk of oil and natural gas exploration, development and drilling, and ownership of interests in oil and natural gas properties, by participating in multiple projects and joint ventures. If the Company is unable to secure sufficient attractive projects as a result of its inability to raise sufficient capital or otherwise, the average quality of the projects and joint venture opportunities may decline and the risk of the Company’s overall operations could increase. Insufficient funds will prevent the Company from implementing its business plan and will require it to delay, scale back, or eliminate certain of its programs or to license to third parties rights to commercialize fields that it would otherwise seek to develop itself. The loss of key employees could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate. The Company believes that its success depends on the continued service of its key employees, as well as the Company’s ability to hire additional key employees, as needed. Each of the Company’s key employees has the right to terminate his/her employment at any time without penalty under his/her employment agreement. The unexpected loss of the services of any of these key employees, or the Company’s failure to find suitable replacements within a reasonable period of time thereafter, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to execute its business plan and therefore, on its financial condition and results of operations. 11 Failure by the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations could eventually result in the cessation of the Company’s operations and require the Company to seek outside financing or discontinue operations. The Company’s business activities require substantial capital from outside sources as well as from internally-generated sources. The Company’s ability to finance a portion of its working capital and capital expenditure requirements with cash flow from operations will be subject to a number of variables, such as: ● Level of production from existing wells; ● Prices of oil and natural gas; ● Success and timing of development of proved undeveloped reserves; ● Cost overruns; ● Remedial work to improve a well’s producing capability; ● Direct costs and general and administrative expenses of operations; ● Reserves, including a reserve for the estimated costs of eventually plugging and abandoning the wells; ● Indemnification obligations of the Company for losses or liabilities incurred in connection with the Company’s activities; and ● General economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond the Company’s control. The Company might not generate or sustain cash flow at sufficient levels to finance its business activities. When and if the Company generates significant revenues, if such revenues were to decrease due to lower oil prices, decreased production or other factors, and if the Company were unable to obtain capital through reasonable financing arrangements, such as a credit line, or otherwise, its ability to execute its business plan would be limited and it could be required to discontinue operations. The Company’s failure to capitalize on existing definitive production agreements and/or enter into additional agreements could result in an inability by the Company to generate sufficient revenues and continue operations. The Company has active interests in definitive production contracts for the Oyo and Non-Oyo Contract Rights. The Company has entered into definitive exploration agreements with Kenya and The Gambia. The Company’s ability to consummate one or more additional ventures is subject to, among other things, (i) the amount of capital the Company raises in the future; (ii) the availability of land for exploration and development in the geographical regions in which the Company’s business is focused; (iii) the nature and number of competitive offers for the same projects on which the Company is bidding; and (iv) approval by government and industry officials. The Company may not be successful in executing definitive agreements in connection with any other ventures, or otherwise be able to secure any additional ventures it pursues in the future. Failure of the Company to capitalize on its existing contracts and/or to secure one or more additional business opportunities would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations, and could result in the cessation of the Company’s business operations. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. A significant percentage of our total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2013 were proved undeveloped reserves which ultimately may be less than currently estimated. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to current and future economic conditions and commodity prices. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities. In the case of production sharing contracts, the quantities allocable to a part-interest owner’s share are affected by the assumptions of that owner’s future participation in funding of operating and capital costs. Actual future production, prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves disclosed. In addition, estimates of proved reserves reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Due to the limited production history of our undeveloped acreage, the estimates of future production associated with such properties may be subject to greater variance to actual production than would be the case with properties having a longer production history. 12 The Company’s oil and gas operations will involve many operating risks that can cause substantial losses. The Company expects to produce, transport and market potentially toxic materials, and purchase, handle and dispose of other potentially toxic materials in the course of its business. The Company’s operations will produce byproducts, which may be considered pollutants. Any of these activities could result in liability, either as a result of an accidental, unlawful discharge or as a result of new findings on the effects of the Company’s operations on human health or the environment. Additionally, the Company’s oil and gas operations may also involve one or more of the following risks: ● Fires and explosions; ● Blow-outs and oil spills; ● Pipe or cement failures and casing collapses; ● Uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, formation water, or drilling fluids; ● Embedded oilfield drilling and services tools; ● Abnormally pressured formations; ● Natural disaster; ● Vandalism and terrorism; and ● Environmental hazards. In the event that any of the foregoing events occur, the Company could incur substantial losses as a result of (i) injury or loss of life; (ii) severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources or equipment; (iii) pollution and other environmental damage; (iv) investigatory and clean-up responsibilities; (v) regulatory investigation and penalties; (vi) suspension of its operations; or (vii) repairs to resume operations. If the Company experiences any of these problems, its ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from typhoons or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. The Company may not be able to manage our anticipated growth. Subject to our receipt of additional capital, we plan to significantly expand operations to accommodate additional development projects and other opportunities. This expansion may strain our management, operations, systems and financial resources. We may need to hire additional personnel in certain operational and other areas during 2014 and future years. The company will be dependent upon others for the storage and transportation of oil and gas, which could result in significant operational costs to the company and depletion of capital. The company does not own storage or transportation facilities and, therefore, will depend upon third parties to store and transport all of its oil and gas resources when and if produced. The company will likely be subject to price changes and termination provisions in any contracts it may enter into with these third-party service providers. The company may not be able to identify such third-parties for any particular project. Even if such sources are initially identified, the company may not be able to identify alternative storage and transportation providers in the event of contract price increases or termination. In the event the company is unable to find acceptable third-party service providers, it would be required to contract for its own storage facilities and employees to transport the company’s resources. The company may not have sufficient capital available to assume these obligations, and its inability to do so could result in the cessation of its business. An interruption in the supply of materials, resources and services, including storage and transportation of oil and gas, the Company plans to obtain from third party sources could limit the Company’s operations and cause unprofitability. Once it has identified, financed, and acquired projects, the Company will need to obtain other materials, resources and services, including, but not limited to, specialized chemicals and specialty muds and drilling fluids, pipe, drill-string, geological and geophysical mapping and interruption services. There may be only a limited number of manufacturers and suppliers of these materials, resources and services. These manufacturers and suppliers may experience difficulty in supplying such materials, resources and services to the Company sufficient to meet its needs or may terminate or fail to renew contracts for supplying these materials, resources or services on terms the Company finds acceptable including, without limitation, acceptable pricing terms. 13 The Company does not presently carry liability insurance and business interruption insurance policies in Africa and will be at risk of incurring personal injury claims for its employees and subcontractors, and incurring business interruption loss due to theft, accidents or natural disasters. The Company does not presently carry any policies of insurance in Africa to cover the risks discussed above. In the event that the Company were to incur substantial liabilities or business interruption losses with respect to one or more incidents, this could adversely affect its operations and it may not have the necessary capital to pay its portion of such costs and maintain business operations. Our business partner, CEHL, is a related party, and our executive chairman and CEO is a principal owner and one of the directors of CEHL, which may result in real or perceived conflicts of interest. Our majority shareholder, CEHL, is one of the entities constituting our business partner, CEHL. Dr. Kase Lawal, the Company’s Executive Chairman and member of the Board of Directors, and Chief Executive Officer, is a director of each of CEHL, CINL, and Allied, also entities constituting CEHL Group. Dr. Lawal also owns 27.7% of CAMAC International Limited, which indirectly owns 100% of CEHL. CINL and Allied are each wholly-owned subsidiaries of CEHL. As a result, Dr. Lawal may be deemed to have an indirect material interest in any transactions with CEHL including the agreements entered into with CEHL in April 2010, the OMLs 120 and 121 Transaction, the Promissory Note with Allied and the Transfer Agreement with Allied. These relationships may result in conflicts of interest. We may not be able to prove that these agreements are equivalent to arm’s length transactions. Should our transactions not provide the value equivalent of arm’s length transactions, our results of operations may suffer and we may be subject to costly shareholder litigation. If we lose our status as an indigenous Nigerian oil and gas operator, we would no longer be eligible for preferential treatment in the acquisition of oil and gas assets and oil and gas licensing rounds in Nigeria. The Company by virtue of our majority stockholder, CEHL, which has indigenous status in Nigeria, is eligible for preferential treatment under the Nigerian Content Development Act with respect to the acquisition of oil and gas assets and in oil and gas licensing rounds in Nigeria. If CEHL were to lose its status as an indigenous Nigerian oil and gas company due to its affiliation with our U.S. based company or otherwise, or if CEHL’s majority interest in us were to be diluted or reduced due to additional issuances of equity by the Company, CEHL sale or transfer of its interest in the Company or otherwise, we may lose our status as an indigenous Nigerian oil and gas operator. As a result, we would lose one of our key advantages in the Nigerian oil and gas market and our results of operations could materially suffer. Applicable Nigerian income tax rates could adversely affect the value of the OMLs 120 and 121 asset, including the Oyo Field. Income derived from the Oyo Contract Rights and the Non-Oyo Contract Rights, and CPL, as acquiring subsidiary in these transactions, are subject to the jurisdiction of the Nigerian taxing authorities. The Nigerian government applies different petroleum profit tax rates upon income derived from Nigerian oil operations ranging from 50% to 85%, based on a number of factors. The final determination of the tax liabilities with respect to the OMLs 120 and 121 involves the interpretation of local tax laws and related authorities. In addition, changes in the operating environment, including changes in tax law and currency/repatriation controls, could impact the determination of tax liabilities with respect to the OMLs 120 and 121 for a tax year. While we believe the petroleum profit tax rate applicable to the OMLs 120 and 121 is 52%, the actual applicable rate could be higher, which could result in a material decrease in the profits allocable to the Company under the OMLs 120 and 121. The passage into law of the Nigerian Petroleum Industry Bill could create additional fiscal and regulatory burdens on the parties to the OMLs 120 and 121, which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of the production. A Petroleum Industry Bill (“PIB”) is currently undergoing legislative process at the Nigerian National Assembly. To date, the PIB has failed to pass the Nigerian Senate. The draft PIB seeks to introduce significant changes to legislation governing the oil and gas sector in Nigeria, including new fiscal regulatory and tax obligations and expanded fiscal and regulatory oversight that may impose additional operational and regulatory burdens on the Company and impact the economic benefits anticipated by the Company. Any such fiscal and regulatory changes could have a negative impact on the profits allocable to the Company under the OMLs 120 and 121. OMLs 120 and 121 are subject to the instability of the Nigerian Government and instability in the country of Nigeria. The government of Nigeria originally granted the rights to OMLs 120 and 121 to CEHL. The government and country of Nigeria have historically experienced instability, which is out of management’s control. The Company’s ability to exploit its interests in this area pursuant to the OMLs 120 and 121 may be adversely impacted by unanticipated governmental action. In addition, the financial viability of the OMLs 120 and 121 may also be negatively affected by changing economic, political and governmental conditions in Nigeria. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. 14 OMLs 120 and 121 is located in an area where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to the Oyo Field operations and our interest in the Oyo Field and the remainder of OMLs 120 and 121. The Oyo Field is located approximately 75 km (46 miles) off the Southern Nigerian coast in deep-water. There are some risks inherent to oil production in Nigeria. Since December 2005, Nigeria has experienced increased pipeline vandalism, kidnappings and militant takeovers of oil facilities in the Niger Delta. The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND) is the main group attacking oil infrastructure for political objectives, claiming to seek a redistribution of oil wealth and greater local control of the sector. Additionally, kidnappings of oil workers for ransom are common. Security concerns have led some oil services firms to pull out of the country and oil workers unions to threaten strikes over security issues. The instability in the Niger Delta has caused shut-in production and several companies to declare force majeure on oil shipments. Despite undertaking various security measures and being situated 75 km (46 miles) offshore the Nigerian coast, the FPSO vessel currently being used for storing petroleum production in the Oyo Field may become subject to terrorist acts and other acts of hostility like piracy. Such actions could adversely impact our overall business, financial condition and operations. Our facilities are subject to these substantial security risks and our financial condition and results of operations may materially suffer as a result. Maritime disasters and other operational risks may adversely impact our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The operation of the FPSO vessel has an inherent risk of maritime disaster, environmental mishaps, cargo and property losses or damage and business interruptions caused by, among others: ● Mechanical failure and dry-dock repairs; ● Vessel off hire periods and labor strikes; ● Human error and adverse weather; ● Political action, civil conflict, terrorism and piracy in vessel’s home country; ● Political action, civil conflict, terrorism and piracy in vessel’s operation site; and ● Political action, civil conflict, terrorism and piracy to vessel’s supply lines. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect the operation of the FPSO vessel, and result in loss of revenues or increased costs and adversely affect our profitability. Terrorist acts and regional hostilities around the world in recent years have led to increases in insurance premium rates and the implementation of special “war risk” premiums for certain areas. Such increases in insurance rates may adversely affect our profitability with respect to the Oyo Field asset. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The prices received for the Oyo Field production under the OMLs 120 and 121 will heavily influence our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Oil is a commodity and, therefore, its price is subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the market for oil has been volatile. This market will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices received for production under the OMLs 120 and 121 and the levels of its production depend on numerous factors beyond the control of the Oyo field’s operator. These factors include the following: ● Changes in global supply and demand for oil; ● Organization of petroleum exporting countries’ actions; ● Price and quantity of imports of foreign oil; ● Political and economic conditions; ● Embargoes and adverse weather; ● Effects from the actions of other oil producing countries actions; ● Global oil exploration and productions levels; ● Global oil inventory levels; ● Price and availability of alternative fuels; ● Energy consumption technological advances; ● Domestic and foreign governmental regulations; and ● Proximity and capacity of transportation pipelines and facilities. Lower oil prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil that the Company can produce economically with respect to the Oyo Field. A substantial or extended decline in oil prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. 15 Risks Related to the Company’s Industry The Company may not be successful in finding, acquiring, or developing sufficient petroleum reserves, and if it fails to do so, the Company will likely cease operations. The Company will be operating primarily in the petroleum extractive business; therefore, if it is not successful in finding crude oil and natural gas sources with good prospects for future production, and exploiting such sources, its business will not be profitable and it may be forced to terminate its operations. Exploring and exploiting oil and gas or other sources of energy entails significant risks, which risks can only be partially mitigated by technology and experienced personnel. The Company or any ventures it acquires or participates in may not be successful in finding petroleum or other energy sources; or, if it is successful in doing so, the Company may not be successful in developing such resources and producing quantities that will be sufficient to permit the Company to conduct profitable operations. The Company’s future success will depend in large part on the success of its drilling programs and creating and maintaining an inventory of projects. Creating and maintaining an inventory of projects depends on many factors, including, among other things, obtaining rights to explore, develop and produce hydrocarbons in promising areas, drilling success, and ability to bring long lead-time, capital intensive projects to completion on budget and schedule, and efficient and profitable operation of mature properties. The Company’s inability to successfully identify and exploit crude oil and natural gas sources would have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations and would, in all likelihood, result in the cessation of its business operations. In addition to the numerous operating risks described in more detail in this report, exploration and exploitation of energy sources involve the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be discovered or, if discovered, that the cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing wells will not result in profitable operations. The Company’s drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or abandoned as a result of a variety of factors, including: ● Adverse weather conditions; ● Unexpected drilling conditions; ● Irregularities in formations; ● Pressure irregularities; ● Equipment failures or accidents; ● Inability to comply with governmental requirements; ● Shortages or delays in the availability of drillings rigs; ● Shortages or delays in the availability of delivery equipment; and ● Shortages or unavailability of qualified labor to complete the drilling programs according to the business plan schedule. The energy market in which the Company operates is highly competitive and the Company may not be able to compete successfully against its current and future competitors, which could seriously harm the Company’s business. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, particularly with respect to access to drilling rigs and other services, the acquisition of properties and the hiring and retention of technical personnel. The Company expects competition in the market to remain intense because of the increasing global demand for energy, and that competition will increase significantly as new companies enter the market and current competitors continue to seek new sources of energy and leverage existing sources. Many of the Company’s competitors, including large oil companies, have an established presence in the areas we do business and have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, development, extraction and other resources and greater name recognition than the Company does. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, changes in regulations affecting the industry, newly discovered resources and exploration opportunities, as well as to large swings in oil and natural gas prices. In addition, increased competition could result in lower energy prices, and reduced margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm the Company’s business. Furthermore, increased competition may harm the Company’s ability to secure ventures on terms favorable to it and may lead to higher costs and reduced profitability, which may seriously harm its business. 16 The Company’s business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile energy prices, which volatility could adversely affect its ability to operate profitably. The Company’s business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide. Oil and gas prices, market expectations of potential changes in these prices and a variety of political and economic and weather-related factors significantly affect this level of activity. Oil and gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors, including: ● Domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; ● OPEC production levels; ● OPEC pricing levels; ● Price and availability of alternative fuels; ● Weather conditions; ● Level of consumer demand; ● Global economic conditions; ● Political conditions in oil and gas producing regions; and ● Shortages or unavailability of qualified labor to complete the drilling programs according to the business plan schedule. If the Company does not hedge its exposure to reductions in oil and gas prices, it may be subject to the risk of significant reductions in prices; alternatively, use by the Company of oil and gas price hedging contracts could limit future revenues from price increases. To date, the Company has not entered into any hedging transactions but may do so in the future. In the event that the Company chooses not to hedge its exposure to reductions in oil and gas prices by purchasing futures and by using other hedging strategies, it could be subject to significant reduction in prices which could have a material negative impact on its profitability. Alternatively, the Company may elect to use hedging transactions with respect to a portion of its oil and gas production to achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce its exposure to price fluctuations. The use of hedging transactions could limit future revenues from price increases and could also expose the Company to adverse changes in basis risk, the relationship between the price of the specific oil or gas being hedged and the price of the commodity underlying the futures contracts or other instruments used in the hedging transaction. Hedging transactions also involve the risk that the counterparty does not satisfy its obligations. The Company may be required to take non-cash asset write-downs if oil and natural gas prices decline or if downward revisions in net proved reserves occur, which could have a negative impact on the Company’s earnings. Under applicable accounting rules, the Company may be required to write down the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties if oil and natural gas prices decline or if there are substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves, increases in its estimates of development costs or deterioration in its exploration results. Accounting standards require the Company to review its long-lived assets for possible impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable over time. In such cases, if the asset’s estimated undiscounted future net cash flows are less than its carrying amount, impairment exists. Any impairment write-down, which would equal the excess of the carrying amount of the assets being written down over their estimated fair value, would have a negative impact on the Company’s earnings, which could be material. Risks Related to International Operations The Company’s international operations will subject it to certain risks inherent in conducting business operations in Nigeria and other foreign countries, including political instability and foreign government regulation, which could significantly impact the Company’s ability to operate in such countries and impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company conducts substantially all of its business in Africa. The Company’s present and future international operations in foreign countries are, and will be, subject to risks generally associated with conducting businesses in foreign countries, such as: ● Foreign laws and regulations that may be materially different from those of the United States; ● Changes in applicable laws and regulations; ● Challenges to, or failure of, title; ● Labor and political unrest; ● Foreign currency fluctuations; ● Changes in foreign economic and political conditions; ● Export and import restrictions; ● Tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; ● Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; ● Longer time period and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and enforcing agreements; ● Possible loss of properties due to nationalization or expropriation; and ● Limitations on repatriation of income or capital. 17 Specifically, foreign governments may enact and enforce laws and regulations requiring increased ownership by businesses and/or state agencies in energy producing businesses and the facilities used by these businesses, which could adversely affect the Company’s ownership interests in then existing ventures. The Company’s ownership structure may not be adequate to accomplish the Company’s business objectives in Nigeria or in any other foreign jurisdiction where the Company may operate. Foreign governments also may impose additional taxes and/or royalties on the Company’s business, which would adversely affect the Company’s profitability and value of our foreign assets, including the rights to interests in OMLs 120 and 121. In certain locations, governments have imposed restrictions, controls and taxes, and in others, political conditions have existed that may threaten the safety of employees and the Company’s continued presence in those countries. Internal unrest, acts of violence or strained relations between a foreign government and the Company or other governments may adversely affect its operations. These developments may, at times, significantly affect the Company’s results of operations, and must be carefully considered by its management when evaluating the level of current and future activity in such countries. The future success of the Company’s operations may also be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, risk of war, expropriation, repatriation, termination, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, tax laws (including host-country import-export, excise and income taxes and United States taxes on foreign subsidiaries) and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currencies in which future oil and gas producing activities may be denominated in certain cases. Changes in exchange rates may also adversely affect the Company’s future results of operations and financial condition. Realization of any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Compliance and enforcement of environmental laws and regulations, including those related to climate change, may cause the Company to incur significant expenditures and require resources, which it may not have. Extensive national, regional and local environmental laws and regulations in Africa are expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s operations. These laws and regulations set various standards regulating certain aspects of health and environmental quality, which provide for user fees, penalties and other liabilities for the violation of these standards. As new environmental laws and regulations are enacted and existing laws are repealed, interpretation, application and enforcement of the laws may become inconsistent. Compliance with applicable local laws in the future could require significant expenditures, which may adversely affect the Company’s operations. The enactment of any such laws, rules or regulations in the future may have a negative impact on the Company’s projected growth, which could in turn decrease its projected revenues or increase its cost of doing business. A foreign government could change its policies towards private enterprise or even nationalize or expropriate private enterprises, which could result in the total loss of the Company’s investment in that country. The Company’s business is subject to significant political and economic uncertainties and may be adversely affected by political, economic and social developments in Africa or in any other foreign jurisdiction in which it operates. Changes in policies, laws and regulations or in their interpretation or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to stockholders, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Nationalization or expropriation could even result in the loss of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets and in the total loss of your investment in the Company. The continued existence of official corruption and bribery in Africa, and the inability or unwillingness of Nigerian authorities to combat such corruption, may negatively impact our ability to fairly and effectively compete in the Nigerian oil and gas market. Official corruption and bribery remain a serious concern in Nigeria. The 2013 Transparency International report ranked Nigeria 144 out of 177 countries in terms of corruption perceptions. In an attempt to combat corruption in the oil and gas sector, the National Assembly passed the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Act 2007. This action permitted Nigeria to become a candidate country under the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (“EITI”), the first step in bringing transparency to all material oil, gas and mining payments to the Government of Nigeria. In addition, Nigeria has amended its banking laws to permit the government to bring corrupt bank officials to justice. Several notable cases have been brought, but, to date, few significant cases have been successful and bank regulatory oversight remains a concern. Thus, increased diligence may be required in working with or through Nigerian banks or with Nigerian governmental authorities, and interactions with government officials may need to be monitored. To the extent that such efforts to increase transparency are unsuccessful, and any competitors utilize the existence of corruptive practices in order to secure an unfair advantage, our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. 18 If relations between the United States and Nigeria were to deteriorate, investors might be unwilling to hold or buy the Company’s stock and its stock price may decrease. At various times during recent years, the United States has had significant disagreements over political, economic and security issues with Nigeria. Additional controversies may arise in the future between the United States and Nigeria. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and Nigeria, whether or not directly related to the Company’s business, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. The Company’s stockholders may not be able to enforce United States civil liabilities claims. Many of the Company’s assets are, and are expected to continue to be, located outside the U.S. and held through one or more wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries incorporated under the laws of foreign jurisdictions. A substantial part of the Company’s operations are, and are expected to continue to be, conducted in Africa. In addition, some of the Company’s directors and officers, including directors and officers of its subsidiaries, may be residents of countries other than the U.S. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons may be located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders to effect service of process within the U.S. upon these persons. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the foreign courts would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against the Company or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the U.S. or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in these countries against the Company or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the U.S. or any state thereof. Risks Related to the Company’s Stock CAMAC Energy Holdings Limited is our majority stockholder, and it may take actions that conflict with the interests of the other stockholders. Following our acquisition of the Oyo Contract Rights, CEHL beneficially owned approximately 62.74% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock and continues to own a majority interest at present. CEHL controls the power to elect our directors, to appoint members of management and to approve all actions requiring the approval of the holders of our Common Stock, including adopting amendments to our Certificate of Incorporation and approving mergers, acquisitions or sales of all or substantially all of our assets, subject to certain restrictive covenants. The interests of CEHL as our controlling stockholder could conflict with your interests as a holder of Company Common Stock. For example, CEHL as our controlling stockholder may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to you, as minority holders of the Company. The market price of the Company’s stock may be adversely affected by a number of factors related to the Company’s performance, the performance of other energy-related companies and the stock market in general. The market prices of securities of energy companies are extremely volatile and sometimes reach unsustainable levels that bear no relationship to the past or present operating performance of such companies. Factors that may contribute to the volatility of the trading price of the Company’s Common Stock include, among others: ● Financial predictions and recommendations by stock analysts concerning energy companies and companies competing in the Company’s market in general, and concerning the Company in particular; ● Variance between the Company’s actual quarterly results of operations and predictions by stock analysts; ● Public announcements of regulatory changes or new ventures relating to the Company’s business, new products or services by the Company or its competitors, or acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances by the Company or its competitors; ● Investor perception of the Company’s business prospects or the oil and gas industry in general; ● Public reports concerning the Company’s services or those of its competitors; ● The operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors or stock analysts may deem comparable to the Company; ● Large purchases or sales of the Company’s Common Stock; ● The Company’s quarterly results of operations; and ● General economic and financial conditions. 19 In addition to the foregoing factors, the trading prices for equity securities in the stock market in general, and of energy-related companies in particular, have been subject to wide fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of the particular company affected by such fluctuations. Consequently, broad market fluctuations may have an adverse effect on the trading price of the Common Stock, regardless of the Company’s results of operations. The limited market for the Company’s Common Stock may adversely affect trading prices or the ability of a shareholder to sell the Company’s shares in the public market at or near ask prices or at all if a shareholder needs to liquidate its shares. The market price for shares of the Company’s Common Stock has been, and is expected to continue to be, very volatile. Numerous factors beyond the Company’s control may have a significant effect on the market price for shares of the Company’s Common Stock, including the fact that the Company is a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volumes. Even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and may be reluctant to follow an unproven, early stage company such as the Company or purchase or recommend the purchase of its shares until such time as the Company becomes more seasoned and viable. There may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in the Company’s shares is minimal as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. Due to these conditions, investors may not be able to sell their shares at or near ask prices or at all if investors need money or otherwise desire to liquidate their shares. In addition to the listing of our Common Stock on the NYSE MKT, we recently listed our Common Stock on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (“JSE”), but we cannot assure you that a trading market will successfully develop on the JSE. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our Common Stock will develop on the JSE. In addition, we cannot assure you what effect our listing on the JSE will have on our trading market on the NYSE MKT. In February 2014, we issued 188,442,211 shares of our Common Stock to the Public Investment Corporation (SOC) Limited (“PIC”) of South Africa in a private placement and expect to issue another 188,442,211 shares to PIC in the near future. If those shares become eligible to be sold on the JSE and PIC chooses to sell those shares on the JSE, sales of a large number of shares could have a negative effect on the market price of our shares on the JSE, which could have a negative effect on the market price of our shares on the NYSE MKT. Substantial sales of the Company’s Common Stock could cause the Company’s stock price to fall. The Company has entered into registration rights agreements with stockholders covering an estimated 1,044,380,323 shares of our Common Stock using a price of $0.70 per share, which was the closing price of our Common Stock on March 5, 2014. The possibility that substantial amounts of our Common Stock may be sold in the public market may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Common Stock and could impair the Company’s ability to raise capital through the sale of its equity securities. We may need to issue a greater number of shares of Common Stock other than the estimated 1,044,380,323 shares because we have received approval to list an indeterminate number of shares of Common Stock to meet our obligations to pay up to $50.0 million in oil and gas milestone payments under the Transfer Agreement. All of the shares payable as milestone payments would be eligible for registration under a registration rights agreement. The Company’s issuance of Preferred Stock could adversely affect the value of the Company’s Common Stock. The Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 50 million shares of Preferred Stock, which shares constitute what is commonly referred to as “blank check” Preferred Stock. This Preferred Stock may be issued by the Board of Directors from time to time on any number of occasions, without stockholder approval, as one or more separate series of shares comprised of any number of the authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, designated by resolution of the Board of Directors, stating the name and number of shares of each series and setting forth separately for such series the relative rights, privileges and preferences thereof, including, if any, the: (i) rate of dividends payable thereon; (ii) price, terms and conditions of redemption; (iii) voluntary and involuntary liquidation preferences; (iv) provisions of a sinking fund for redemption or repurchase; (v) terms of conversion to Common Stock, including conversion price; and (vi) voting rights. The designation of such shares could be dilutive of the interest of the holders of our Common Stock. The ability to issue such Preferred Stock could also give the Company’s Board of Directors the ability to hinder or discourage any attempt to gain control of the Company by a merger, tender offer at a control premium price, proxy contest or otherwise. 20 The Company’s executive officers, directors and major stockholders, including CEHL and PIC, hold a controlling interest in the Company’s Common Stock and may be able to prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. The executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock, if they were to act together, would be able to control all matters requiring approval by stockholders, including the election of Directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without the support of these stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 