Risk factors — Risks relating to our indebtedness — Restrictive covenants in the agreement governing our senior credit facility may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies.” Moreover, even in the absence of any such restrictions, none of the subsidiaries of SS&C Holdings is obligated to make funds available to SS&C Holdings for the payment of dividends or otherwise. In addition, Delaware law imposes requirements that may restrict the ability of our subsidiaries, including SS&C, to pay dividends to SS&C Holdings. Also, SS&C Holdings has no ability to acquire businesses or property or conduct other business activities directly. These limitations could reduce our attractiveness to investors. Risks relating to ownership of our common stock If equity research analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price and trading volume of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. If any equity research analyst who covers us or may cover us in the future were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors in our common stock. Shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering, or IPO, at a price of $15.00 per share on March 31, 2010, and our common stock has subsequently traded as high as $21.95 and as low as $13.27. An 31 Table of Contents active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • success of competitive products; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; • litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; • additions or departures of key personnel; • investors’ general perception of us; and • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. A few significant stockholders control the direction of our business. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it will prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of March 8, 2012, investment funds affiliated with Carlyle beneficially owned approximately 36.6% of our common stock, and William C. Stone, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 22.9% of our common stock. We are also party to a stockholders’ agreement with Carlyle and Mr. Stone, pursuant to which Carlyle and Mr. Stone have agreed to vote in favor of nominees to our board of directors nominated by each other. As a result, Carlyle and Mr. Stone exercise control over matters requiring stockholder approval and our policy and affairs. The presence of Carlyle’s nominees on our board of directors may result in a delay or the deterrence of possible changes in control of our company, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. The interests of our existing stockholders may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Additionally, Carlyle and its affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies, and from time to time acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or clients of ours. Our management has broad discretion in the use of our existing cash resources and may not use such funds effectively. Our management has broad discretion in the application of our cash resources. Accordingly, our stockholders will have to rely upon the judgment of our management with respect to our existing cash resources, 32 Table of Contents with only limited information concerning management’s specific intentions. Our management may spend our cash resources in ways that our stockholders may not desire or that may not yield a favorable return. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could harm our business. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • limitations on the removal of directors; • a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to call special meetings; • the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a rights plan, or a poison pill, that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, likely preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors; and • a prohibition on stockholders from acting by written consent if William C. Stone, investment funds affiliated with Carlyle, and certain transferees of Carlyle cease to collectively hold a majority of our outstanding common stock. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. Our management is required to devote significant time to public company compliance requirements. This may divert management’s attention from the growth and operation of the business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Global Select Market, impose a number of requirements on public companies, including provisions regarding corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a significant amount of time to compliance with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations may make some activities time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantial additional costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. These rules and regulations may also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley 33 Table of Contents Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our common stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by The NASDAQ Global Select Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 