ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this report, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive and you are encouraged to perform your own investigation with respect to our company and our business. You should also read the other information included in this report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business We are a newly formed development stage company with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed development stage company with no operating results. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing our initial business combination with one or more target businesses. We have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective target business concerning a business combination and may be unable to complete a business combination. If we fail to complete a business combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required timeframe, in which case our corporate existence would cease and we would liquidate our assets. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we must complete our initial business combination by September 28, 2009. If we fail to consummate our initial business combination within such time period, our corporate existence will cease and we will liquidate and wind up. The foregoing requirements are set forth in Article IX of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and, until the consummation of our initial business combination, may not be eliminated without the vote of our board and the vote of 100% of the shares of our outstanding voting stock cast at a meeting of the stockholders at which a quorum is present. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within such time period. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of our initial business combination. If we liquidate before concluding our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive less than $10.00 per share on our liquidation and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination and must liquidate, the per-share liquidation distribution may be less than $10.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking our initial business combination. If we were unable to conclude our initial business combination and expended all of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, other than the proceeds deposited in the trust account, and without taking into account interest, if any, earned on the trust account, net of income taxes payable on such interest and net of up to $6.6 million in interest income on the trust account balance previously released to us to fund working capital requirements, the initial per-share liquidation amount would be $9.71, or $0.29 less than our per-unit initial public offering price of $10.00. Furthermore, our outstanding warrants are not entitled to participate in a liquidating distribution and the warrants will therefore expire worthless if we liquidate before completing our initial business combination. If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination, our public stockholders will be forced to wait, at a minimum, until September 28, 2009 before receiving liquidation distributions. We have until September 28, 2009 to consummate our initial business combination. If we do not consummate our initial business combination during such time period, we will liquidate in accordance with our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. We have no obligation to return funds to public stockholders prior to such date unless we consummate our initial business combination prior 10 thereto and only then in cases where public stockholders have sought conversion of their shares. Only after the expiration of this full time period will public stockholders be entitled to liquidation distributions if we are unable to complete our initial business combination. Further, we may not be able to disburse the funds in our trust account immediately following September 28, 2009, until we have commenced the liquidation process in accordance with our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and Delaware law. If we have not consummated our initial business combination by September 28, 2009, we will automatically liquidate and dissolve without need of a stockholder vote. We may require stockholders who wish to convert their shares to comply with specific requirements for conversion that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their conversion rights prior to the deadline for exercising conversion rights. We may require public stockholders who wish to convert their shares to physically tender their stock certificates to our transfer agent prior to the stockholder meeting or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using the Depository Trust Company's DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. In order to obtain a physical stock certificate, a stockholder's broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that stockholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical stock certificate. If we elect to require physical tender and it takes longer than we anticipate to obtain a physical certificate, stockholders who wish to convert may be unable to obtain physical certificates by the deadline for exercising their conversion rights and thus will be unable to convert their shares. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete an initial business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a "blank check" company under the United States securities laws. However, since our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange, and we have net tangible assets in excess of $5 million, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC, to protect investors in blank check companies, such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Among other things, this means we will have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in some circumstances than do companies subject to Rule 419. Moreover, offerings subject to Rule 419 would prohibit the release of any interest earned on funds held in the trust account to us unless and until the funds in the trust account were released to us in connection with our consummation of an initial business combination. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate business combinations, it may be more difficult for us to do so. There are a number of other blank check companies seeking initial business combinations. Furthermore, there are a number of additional offerings for blank check companies that are still in the registration process but have not completed initial public offerings and there are likely to be more blank check companies filing registration statements for initial public offerings after the date of this report and prior to our completion of a business combination. While some of those companies must complete a business combination in specific industries, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. Therefore, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. 11 If the net proceeds of our initial public offering not being held in the trust account, together with the $6.6 million of interest in the trust account which may be released to us for working capital purposes, are insufficient to allow us to operate until September 28, 2009, we may be unable to complete our initial business combination. We believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account, plus the interest earned on the funds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to operate until September 28, 2009, assuming that our initial business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimate will be accurate. We could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a "no-shop" provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from "shopping" around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. Subsequent to our consummation of our initial business combination, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will surface all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. As a result of these factors, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even if our due diligence successfully identifies certain risks, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. A decline in interest rates could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete our initial business combination since we will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search, to pay our taxes and to complete our initial business combination. We depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with up to $6.6 million of additional working capital we may need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination, as well as to pay any taxes that we may owe. A substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close our initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our sponsor or management team to operate or may be forced to liquidate. Neither our sponsor nor our management team is under any obligation to advance funds in such circumstances. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders may be less than approximately $9.71 per share. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses and other entities 12 with which we do business execute agreements waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, and the execution of such an agreement is not a condition to our doing business with anyone. Even if they do execute such agreements, they would not be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account. There is also no guarantee that a court would uphold the validity of such waivers and, if a court failed to uphold the validity of such waivers, we would not be indemnified by Mr. Hicks. Mr. Hicks, our founder and chairman of the board, has agreed that he will be liable to us if and to the extent any claims by a third party for services rendered or products sold, or by a prospective target business, reduce the amounts in the trust account, except as to (i) any claims by a third party who executed a waiver (even if such waiver is subsequently found to be invalid and unenforceable) of any and all rights to seek access to the funds in the trust account and (ii) any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. In the event that this indemnity obligation arose and Mr. Hicks did not comply with such obligation, we believe that we would have an obligation to seek enforcement of the obligation and that our board of directors would have a fiduciary duty to seek enforcement of such obligation on our behalf. Based on representations made to us by Mr. Hicks, we currently believe that Mr. Hicks is of substantial means and capable of funding his indemnity obligations, even though we have not asked him to reserve funds for such an eventuality. However, we cannot assure you that Mr. Hicks will be able to satisfy those obligations. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders and, as a result, the per-share liquidation amount would be less than $9.71 due to claims of such creditors. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts described in this report. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, our activities may be restricted, including: •restrictions on the nature of our investments; and •restrictions on the issuance of securities, each of which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: •registration as an investment company; •adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and •reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the U.S. Investment Company Act. The proceeds held in the trust account may be invested by the trustee only in U.S. government treasury bills with a maturity of 90 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act. Because the investment of the 13 proceeds will be restricted to these instruments, we believe we will meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act. If we were deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expenses for which we have not allotted. Changes in laws or regulations, or a failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business, investments and results of operations. We are subject to laws and regulations enacted by national, regional and local governments. In particular, upon admission, we will be required to comply with certain SEC and other legal requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws and regulations may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws and regulations and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, as interpreted and applied, by any of the persons referred to above could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution conducted in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder's pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after we liquidate; therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan of distribution that will reasonably provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims including those that are contingent, (ii) all pending proceedings to which we are a party and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the most likely claims, if any, to arise would be from our vendors that we engage (such as accountants, lawyers, investment bankers, etc.) and potential target businesses. If our plan of distribution complies with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder's pro rata share or the amount distributed to the stockholder. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of the date of distribution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. 14 If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a "preferential transfer" or a "fraudulent conveyance." As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the then-remaining proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after our liquidation in the event our initial business combination has not been consummated by September 28, 2009, such distributions may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Also, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or acting in bad faith by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors, which may expose the board and our company to claims of punitive damages. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. Although we have agreed to file a registration statement registering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants prior to the time the warrants become exercisable, an effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing such warrants to expire worthless. No warrant held by public stockholders will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless, at the time such holder seeks to exercise such warrant, we have a registration statement under the Securities Act in effect covering the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to the common stock. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to file and have a registration statement in effect covering shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants from the date the warrants became exercisable and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise, whether by net cash settlement or otherwise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current, the warrants held by public stockholders may have no value, we will have no obligation to settle the warrants for cash, the market for such warrants may be limited, such warrants may expire worthless and, as a result, an investor may have paid the full unit price solely for the shares of common stock included in the units. An investor will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of common stock upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless the common stock issuable upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Because the exemptions from qualification in certain states for resales of warrants and for issuances of common stock by the issuer upon exercise of a warrant may be different, a warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for issuance of common stock upon an exercise and the holder will be precluded from exercise of the warrant. At the time that the warrants become exercisable (following the later of our completion of an initial business combination or September 28, 2009), we expect to either continue to be listed on a national securities exchange, which would provide an exemption from registration in every state, or we would register the warrants in every state (or seek another exemption from registration in such states). Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. However, we cannot assure you of this fact. As a result, the 15 warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants and they may expire worthless if the common stock issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. Since we have not yet selected a particular industry or target business with which to complete our initial business combination, you will be unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. We may consummate our initial business combination with a company in any industry, other than with a Company that is engaged in the energy industry as its principal business, and are not limited to any particular type of business, although we will not consummate a business combination with any entity whose principal business operations are conducted outside the United States or Canada. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business which we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete our initial business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. If we complete our initial business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Even if we properly assess those risks, some of them may be outside of our control or ability to affect. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to our investors than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. We may not obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party as to the fair market value of acquisition candidates or the fairness of the transaction to our stockholders. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that the price we are paying is fair to our public stockholders. In addition, we are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that any initial business combination we select has a fair market value of at least 80% of the initial amount held in the trust account (less deferred underwriting commissions), the threshold value to constitute our initial business combination. If our board of directors is not able to independently determine the fair market value of our initial business combination, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is subject to oversight by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority as to the fair market value. If no opinion is obtained, our public stockholders will be relying solely on the judgment of our board of directors. We may issue additional common or preferred shares to complete our initial business combination or under an employee incentive plan after consummation of our initial business combination, which would dilute the interest of our stockholders and likely present other risks. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 225,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. We have 156,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of common stock available for issuance. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of common or preferred stock to complete our initial business combination or under an employee incentive plan after consummation of our initial business combination. The issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock: •may significantly dilute the equity interest of our investors; •may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock; 16 •could cause a change in control if a substantial number of common stock is issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and •may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and/or warrants. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific initial business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate our initial business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control, such as if a majority of our stockholders do not approve an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for our perpetual existence or the number of our public stockholders that vote against the business combination and opt to have us repurchase their stock represent more than 30% (minus one share) of our outstanding shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering, even if holders of a majority of votes cast by our public stockholders at a duly held stockholders meeting approve the business combination. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. We are dependent upon Mr. Hicks and his loss could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of individuals and, in particular, upon our founder and chairman of the board, Mr. Hicks. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of Mr. Hicks, at least until we have consummated a business combination. In addition, Mr. Hicks is not required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence. We do not have an employment agreement with, or key-man insurance on the life of, Mr. Hicks. The unexpected loss of the services of Mr. Hicks could have a detrimental effect on us. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following our initial business combination. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The role of our key personnel in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following a business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a company regulated by the SEC, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following a business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous. 17 Our key personnel may be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to the company after the consummation of the business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. However, we believe the ability of such individuals to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. There is no certainty, however, that any of our key personnel will remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you that any of our key personnel will remain in senior management or advisory positions with the combined company. The determination as to whether any of our key personnel will remain with the combined company will be made at the time of our initial business combination. The officers and directors of an acquisition candidate may resign upon consummation of a business combination. The role of an acquisition candidate's key personnel upon the consummation of a business combination cannot be ascertained at this time. Although we contemplate that certain members of an acquisition candidate's management team will remain associated with the acquisition candidate following a business combination, it is possible that members of the management of an acquisition candidate will not wish to remain in place. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers' and directors' other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Certain of our officers and directors are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Certain of our officers and directors are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. In the event that any of our officers becomes aware of a business combination opportunity that falls within the line of business of any entity to which he or she has pre-existing fiduciary or contractual obligations, he or she may be required to present such business combination opportunity to such entity prior to presenting such business combination opportunity to us. Each of Mr. Hicks, Joseph B. Armes, our president, chief executive officer, chief financial officer and one of our directors, Eric C. Neuman, a senior vice president of our company, Robert M. Swartz, a senior vice president of our company, Christina Weaver Vest, a senior vice president of our company, Thomas O. Hicks, Jr., our secretary and one of our vice presidents, and Mack H. Hicks, a vice president of our company, is an officer, member or partner of Hicks Holdings LLC ("Hicks Holdings") 18 or Hicks Equity Partners LLC ("Hicks Equity Partners"). Hicks Holdings is a holding company for sports, real estate and private equity investments of Thomas O. Hicks and his family, and Hicks Equity Partners is an entity engaged in the private equity business. The controlling member and manager of Hicks Equity Partners is Thomas O. Hicks. Each of such officers will be required to offer all suitable business opportunities with a fair market value less than $200 million to Hicks Holdings or Hicks Equity Partners prior to presenting them to us; provided that in order to minimize potential conflicts of interest which may arise from multiple corporate affiliations, each of our officers has agreed, until the earliest of our initial business combination, our liquidation or such time as he or she ceases to be an officer, to present to our company for our consideration, prior to presentation to any other entity, any business opportunity with a fair market value of $200 million or more, subject to any pre-existing fiduciary or contractual obligations he or she might have. Each of our officers, other than Thomas O. Hicks, Jr. and Mack Hicks currently have certain relevant fiduciary duties or contractual obligations, which may take priority over their duties to us. Our officers may become involved with subsequent blank check companies similar to our company, although they have agreed not to participate in the formation of, or become an officer or director of, any blank check company that may complete a business combination with an entity other than with an entity engaged in the energy industry as its principal business or whose principal business operations are conducted outside of the United States or Canada until we have entered into a definitive agreement regarding our initial business combination or we have failed to complete our initial business combination by September 28, 2009. As discussed above, our officers may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe certain fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor or that a potential target business would not be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us. Certain of our directors own shares of our common stock issued prior to our initial public offering and an entity affiliated with our officers owns shares of our common stock and warrants issued prior to our initial public offering and purchased additional warrants simultaneously with the closing of our initial public offering. These shares and warrants will not participate in liquidation distributions if our initial business combination is not consummated and, therefore, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for our initial business combination. Certain members of our board of directors own shares of our common stock and warrants and all of our officers are affiliated with an entity that owns shares of our common stock or warrants. Our sponsor, HH-HACI, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, purchased 10,000,000 founder's units (which were increased to 11,500,000 founder's units as a result of a stock split approved by our board of directors in July 2007 and later increased to 13,524,000 units after giving effect to the August 2007 transfer discussed below and a stock dividend declared by our board of directors in September 2007). In August 2007, our sponsor transferred an aggregate of 230,000 founder's units (which were increased to 276,000 units as a result of the September 2007 stock dividend) to William Cunningham, William Montgomery, Brian Mulroney and William F. Quinn, each of whom is a member of our board of directors. Our sponsor also purchased 7,000,000 sponsor warrants simultaneously with the closing of our initial public offering. Mr. Hicks is the sole member of HH-HACI GP, LLC, the general partner of our sponsor. In addition, Mr. Hicks, Mr. Armes, Mr. Neuman, Mr. Swartz, Ms. Vest, Thomas O. Hicks, Jr. and Mack H. Hicks are each limited partners of our sponsor. Our sponsor and each of Messrs. Cunningham, Montgomery, Mulroney and Quinn have waived their rights to receive distributions with respect to the founder's shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Accordingly, the founder's shares, as well as the founder's warrants, will be worthless if we do not consummate our initial business combination by September 28, 2009. The sponsor warrants will also expire worthless if we fail to consummate our initial business combination within such time period. Furthermore, the $7 million purchase price of the sponsor warrants will be 19 held in the trust account and will be distributed to our public stockholders in the event of our liquidation. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our directors' and officers' discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders' best interest. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange, which could limit investors' ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. However, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future prior to an initial business combination. Additionally, in connection with our initial business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange will require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: •a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; •a determination that our common stock is a "penny stock" which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; •a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and •a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business, which may have a limited number of products or services. Our initial business combination must be with a target business having a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) at the time of such acquisition, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several businesses or assets at the same time. However, we may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. By consummating an initial business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: •solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or •dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. 20 This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to an initial business combination. Alternatively, if we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses or assets, which are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the initial business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. We may seek to effect our initial business combination with one or more privately held companies, which may present certain challenges to us including the lack of available information about these companies. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may seek to effect our initial business combination with a privately held company. By definition, very little public information exists about private companies, and we could be required to make our decision on whether to pursue a potential initial business combination on the basis of limited information. We may be dependent on a single business or asset that is likely to operate in a non-diverse industry or segment and which may have a limited number of products or services. The prospects for our success may be solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, property or asset that we acquire through our initial business combination. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. The ability of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to consummate a desirable initial business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek the approval of our public stockholders for our initial business combination, each public stockholder will have the right to elect to convert its shares for cash if such public stockholder votes against our initial business combination and our initial business combination is approved and completed and the public stockholder holds its shares through the closing of our initial business combination. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and elect to convert its shares by notifying us of such election to convert at the appropriate time, as described in the proxy materials. We will be permitted to proceed with our initial business combination if we are able to confirm that we have sufficient funds to pay the consideration to close the business combination plus all sums due to our public stockholders who vote against the business combination and duly exercise their right to elect to convert their shares for cash. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate an initial business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may be required to incur an amount of leverage that is not optimal for our business combination. In addition, we will not consummate an initial business combination if holders of more than 30% (minus one share) of our outstanding shares of common stock purchased in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights. These restrictions may limit our ability to consummate the most attractive business combinations available to us. We may proceed with an initial business combination even if public stockholders owning up to 30% (minus one share) of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights. This requirement may make it easier for us to have an initial business combination approved over stockholder dissent. 21 We may proceed with an initial business combination as long as public stockholders owning no more than 30% (minus one share) of the shares sold in our initial public offering both vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, public stockholders holding up to 16,559,999 shares of our common stock may both vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. We have set the conversion percentage at 30% (minus one share) in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a block of our stock will be able to stop us from completing a business combination that is otherwise approved by a large majority of our public stockholders. However, this may have the effect of making it easier for us to have a business combination approved over stockholder dissent than other blank check companies. While there are some other offerings similar to ours which include conversion provisions greater than 20%, a 20% threshold is common for offerings similar to ours. Because we permit a larger number of stockholders to exercise their conversion rights, it may be easier for us to obtain stockholder approval of an initial business combination than other blank check companies. Our initial business combination may require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price. In such case, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our initial business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Additionally, even if our business combination does not require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, if a significant number of stockholders exercise their conversion rights, we will have less cash available to use in furthering our business plans following a business combination and may need to arrange third party financing. We have not taken any steps to secure third party financing for either situation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such third party financing on terms favorable to us or at all. Because of our limited resources and structure, we may not be able to consummate an attractive initial business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from entities in addition to blank check companies having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination with a target business by September 28, 2009, we will be forced to liquidate. We may be unable to obtain additional financing to complete our initial business combination or to fund the operations and growth of a target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering, including the interest earned on the proceeds held in the trust account that may be available to us for a business combination, will be sufficient to allow us to consummate our initial business combination, because we 22 have not yet identified any prospective target business we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of our initial business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or the obligation to repurchase for cash a significant number of shares from stockholders who elect conversion in connection with our initial business combination, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate our initial business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular initial business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. Even if we do not need additional financing to consummate our initial business combination we may require such financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Our sponsor, which is an entity controlled by Thomas O. Hicks, our founder and chairman of the board, controls a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our sponsor (an entity controlled by Mr. Hicks) owns 19.6% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock and Mr. Hicks is required to purchase, directly or through a controlled affiliate, 2,000,000 co-investment units in connection with our initial business combination (a portion of which co-investment units may be assigned by Mr. Hicks in limited circumstances). Our board of directors is and will be divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our "staggered" board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our sponsor, because of its ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our sponsor will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of our initial business combination. In the event that our initial stockholders purchase any additional shares of our common stock, they will vote any such shares acquired by them in favor of our initial business combination and in favor of an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for our perpetual existence in connection with a vote to approve our initial business combination. Furthermore, in the event that Mr. Hicks or our officers acquire shares of our common stock, we anticipate that they would vote such shares in favor of our initial business combination. Thus, additional purchases of shares of our common stock by our directors, officers or initial stockholders would likely allow them to exert additional influence over the approval of our initial business combination. Factors that would be considered by in making such additional purchases would include consideration of the current trading price of our common stock. Another factor that would be taken into consideration would be that any such additional purchases would likely increase the chances that our initial business combination would be approved. We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to you, thereby making your warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of the common stock equals or exceeds $13.75 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading-day period ending on the third business day prior to proper notice of such redemption provided that on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the warrants, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is 23 available. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force you: (i) to exercise your warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for you to do so; (ii) to sell your warrants at the then current market price when you might otherwise wish to hold your warrants; or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of your warrants. None of the founder's warrants will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by our initial stockholders or their permitted transferees and none of the sponsor warrants will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by the sponsor or its permitted transferees, and none of the co-investment warrants will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by Thomas O. Hicks, any relevant controlled affiliate of Mr. Hicks that purchases the co-investment units, or their permitted transferees. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Prior to our initial public offering, we issued 13,800,000 founder's warrants to our initial stockholders. We issued warrants to purchase 55,200,000 shares of our common stock as part of the units initially offered and, simultaneously with the closing of our initial public offering, we issued in a private placement sponsor warrants to purchase 7,000,000 shares of common stock. The founder's warrants and the sponsor warrants are identical to the warrants sold as part of the units in our initial public offering except that: (i) they will not be redeemable by us so long as they are held by, as applicable, our initial stockholders, our sponsor or their permitted transferees; (ii) they (including the common stock issuable upon exercise of these warrants) may not, subject to certain limited exceptions, be transferred, assigned or sold by the sponsor until 180 days after the completion of our initial business combination; and (iii) may be exercised by the holders on a cashless basis. In addition, the founder's warrants may not be exercised unless and until: (A) the last sale price of our common stock equals or exceeds $13.75 for any 20 days within any 30 trading day period beginning 90 days after our initial business combination; and (B) there is an effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. Thomas O. Hicks, our founder and chairman of the board, also committed to purchase, directly or through one of his controlled affiliates, 2,000,000 co-investment units consisting of an aggregate of 2,000,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 2,000,000 shares of our common stock in a private placement that will occur immediately prior to our completion of our initial business combination, which will not occur until after the signing of a definitive business combination agreement and the approval of the initial business combination by holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering; provided that holders of no more than 30% (minus one share) of our outstanding shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering elect to exercise their conversion rights. The co-investment warrants will be identical to the warrants sold in our initial public offering, except that (i) they will not be redeemable by us so long as they are held by Thomas O. Hicks, the relevant controlled affiliate or their permitted transferees and (ii) with limited exceptions, they (including the common stock issuable upon exercise of these warrants) may not, subject to certain limited exceptions, be transferred, assigned or sold until 180 days after the completion of our initial business combination. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect our initial business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete our initial business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate our initial business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities and on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. 24 Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements, we may not be able to complete an initial business combination with some prospective target businesses. We will provide stockholders with audited financial statements of the prospective target business as part of the proxy solicitation materials sent to stockholders to assist them in assessing the target business. In all likelihood, these financial statements will need to be prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. We cannot assure you that any particular target business identified by us as a potential acquisition candidate will have financial statements prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles or that the potential target business will be able to prepare its financial statements in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. To the extent that this requirement cannot be met, we may not be able to acquire the proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2008. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm report on management's evaluation of our system of internal controls. A target company may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Under Delaware law, the requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains certain requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering that apply to us until the consummation of our initial business combination. Specifically, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that: •upon closing of our initial public offering, approximately $536.1 million (including $7 million from the sale of the sponsor warrants and approximately $17.4 million in deferred underwriting commissions), was placed into the trust account; •we shall submit any proposed business combination to our stockholders for approval prior to consummating our initial business combination; •our public stockholders will have the right to convert their shares of common stock into cash in accordance with the conversion rights described below; •public stockholders who exercise their conversion rights and vote against our initial business combination may convert their shares into a pro rata share of the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account; 25 •we will consummate a business combination only if it has a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the initial amount held in trust (excluding deferred underwriting commissions of approximately $17.4 million); •prior to our initial business combination, we may not issue additional stock that participates in any manner in the proceeds of the trust account, or that votes as a class with the common stock sold in our initial public offering on a business combination; •we will consummate our initial business combination only if: (i) the initial business combination is approved by a majority of votes cast by our public stockholders at a duly held stockholders meeting; (ii) an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for our perpetual existence is approved by holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock; (iii) public stockholders owning no more than 30% (minus one share) of our outstanding shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering both vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights; and (iv) we have confirmed that we have sufficient cash resources to pay both (x) the consideration required to close our initial business combination, and (y) the cash due to public stockholders who vote against the business combination and who exercise their conversion rights; and •if we do not consummate our initial business combination by September 28, 2009, our corporate purposes and powers will immediately thereupon be limited to acts and activities related to liquidating and winding up our affairs, including liquidation, and we will not be able to engage in any other business activities. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires that we obtain the vote of our board of directors and the unanimous vote of our stockholders, by a vote of all outstanding shares at a meeting of stockholders, to amend the above-described provisions. However, the validity of unanimous consent provisions under Delaware law has not been settled. This unanimous consent requirement is more stringent than the minimum stockholder consent requirement under Delaware law, and a court could conclude that the unanimous consent requirement constitutes a practical prohibition on amendment in violation of the stockholders' implicit rights to amend the corporate charter. In that case, the above-described provisions would be amendable without unanimous consent and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include a staggered board of directors and the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preference shares, which may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. There may be tax consequences to our business combinations that may adversely affect us. While we expect to undertake any merger or acquisition so as to minimize taxes both to the acquired business and/or asset and us, such business combination might not meet the statutory requirements of a tax-free reorganization, or the parties might not obtain the intended tax-free treatment upon a transfer of shares or assets. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of substantial taxes. 26 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 