D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have experienced significant growth, which has placed a substantial strain on our resources. The failure to successfully implement our growth strategy could adversely affect our ability to continue to grow or sustain our revenues and profitability. As part of our growth strategy, we acquired one of our principal competitors, 012 Golden Lines on December 31, 2006. Our total assets increased to NIS 1,554 million ($404 million) as at December 31, 2007 from NIS 223.4 million as at December 31, 2005, and our revenues increased to 1,102.9 million ($286.7 million) for the year ended December 31, 2007 from NIS 343.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to our acquisition of 012 Golden Lines as of December 31, 2006. We experienced significant growth prior to the acquisition of 012 Golden Lines, as our revenues increased to NIS 343.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from NIS 244.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our organic growth and the acquisition of 012 Golden Lines have placed, and are likely to continue to place, a significant strain on our management as well as our operational, administrative and financial resources and our internal controls. The demand on our network infrastructure, technical and customer support staff and other resources has grown with our expanding customer base and is expected to continue to grow as we expand our business. We cannot guarantee that our infrastructure, technical and customer support staff, operational and billing systems and other resources will adequately accommodate or facilitate the growth of our business. Another part of our growth strategy is managing and reducing the costs associated with delivering our services, including recurring service costs such as communications and customer support costs as well as expenses incurred to add new customers, such as sales and marketing, installation and hardware costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could affect our ability to generate revenues, control expenses and sustain or increase our profitability. 6 Changes in the regulatory and legal compliance environment could adversely affect our operations and business activities and could result in increased competition and reduced revenues and profitability. We operate in a highly regulated industry in Israel, which limits our flexibility in managing our business. We are subject to regulation regarding communications licenses, antitrust and arrangements pertaining to interconnection and leased lines. Our business and operations could be adversely affected by decisions by regulators, in particular the Ministry of Communications, as well as changes in laws, regulations or government policy affecting our business activities, such as the following: · Deregulating the monopoly-based restrictions imposed on Bezeq, Israel’s incumbent telephony operator, and its affiliates; · Deregulating the restriction imposed on the Bezeq and its affiliates, including on D.B.S. Satellite Services (1998) Ltd., which operates under the trade name YES, Israel’s sole satellite television service provider, that prevents it from providing VoB services; · Deregulating the restrictions imposed on cellular operators that currently prevent them from providing international telephony services; · Changing the regulation that requires the incumbent infrastructure providers Bezeq and HOT to allow us “open access” enabling us to provide broadband and traditional voice services, or deregulating the restrictions that currently prevent them from charging us for the use of their infrastructure; · Changing the regulations affecting our interconnection arrangements with other operators; · Changing call termination tariffs; · Establishing regulations relating to initiation of WiMAX services and installation of WiMAX antennae, including environmental and land use regulation; · Limiting the prices that we may charge our customers; · Broadening or increasing the range of revenues on which royalties are paid; and · Changing the regulations affecting our international and local telephony business. Such actions could result in increased competition and expenses, and reduced revenues and profitability. The current legislation in Israel grants the Ministry of Communications extensive regulatory and supervisory authority with respect to our business, as well as the authority to impose substantial sanctions, such as fines. As a result, the interpretation and implementation of laws and regulations as well as provisions of our licenses are subject to the administrative discretion of the Ministry of Communications. Further risks and uncertainties result from the fact that changes in such laws, regulations or government policies may not be adopted or implemented in the manner that we expect and may be further amended, interpreted or enforced in an unexpected manner or in a manner adverse to our business. The regulatory limitations on Bezeq could change in the future and result in increased competition, and a reduction in our revenues from interconnect fees. Bezeq, The International Communications Corp. Ltd, the incumbent local telephony provider in Israel, or Bezeq, is currently subject to several regulatory limitations, including restrictions on its ability to provide bundled service offerings, restrictions to entry into the VoB market, and supervised tariffs. Under its license, Bezeq is also subject to the principle of structural separation in providing its various communication services. Once Bezeq’s market share falls below certain thresholds, which is likely to occur in 2008, Bezeq may apply to the Ministry of Communications to begin providing bundled services, which could potentially include local and international telephony, broadband Internet access, Internet service provider, or ISP, services, cellular services and multi-channel TV. Bezeq’s affiliate, Bezeq International has submitted a license request to the Ministry of Communication to provide VoB services. Bezeq may also apply to the Ministry of Communications to offer discounts on its supervised tariffs in the domestic fixed telephony market. 7 Bezeq pays us interconnect fees with respect to calls being made from Bezeq fixed-lines to our VoB lines. Bezeq has raised the claim that it should not be paying us interconnect fees because we use its infrastructure. Although the Ministry of Communications has determined that Bezeq should pay us interconnect fees for calls originated from Bezeq fixed-lines to our lines at the same tariff as we pay Bezeq, this determination will be reviewed by the Ministry of Communications in February 2009 and there is no certainty that the Ministry of Communications will not reverse its determination that Bezeq should pay us interconnect fees at then current rates or at all. Further deregulation of various segments of the communication services market may allow Bezeq to be released from regulatory limitations, allowing it to bundle services and compete directly with us. Bezeq and its subsidiaries are not allowed to enter the VoB market until Bezeq’s market share falls under 85% of the fixed-line telephony market. According to publications issued by the Ministry of Communications, Bezeq’s market share in the residential segment in March 2008 was approximately 86%. If the Ministry of Communications releases Bezeq from the prevailing regulatory limitations, it would enjoy a competitive advantage because it will be able to bundle services through its affiliates or in conjunction with a third party. This could result in Bezeq becoming an even stronger competitor. Bezeq currently has an advantageous position in the market because it has a dominant presence in all segments and can easily provide its customers with access to a great variety of services. The Ministry of Communications will also examine the competitive position of YES and it may allow YES to enter the VoB market if its competitive position deteriorates. We depend on maintaining and renewing our existing regulatory licenses in order to fully conduct our business. Our inability to maintain and renew our existing licenses would negatively impact our operations, revenues and profitability. Our ability to offer our broadband and traditional voice services depends on our ability to maintain and renew the licenses we have received from the Ministry of Communications. Although we are entitled to renew our licenses, such licenses are subject to many terms and conditions. Any renewal or extension is subject to the discretion of the Ministry of Communications and may be renewed or extended, if at all, on terms materially different to the terms under which we now operate. Any such change in the terms and conditions of our licenses may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our licenses may be suspended or revoked by the Ministry of Communications if we default under or violate their terms. Each license requires us to adhere to certain requirements, which include the scope of services to be provided under the license, the amount of royalties to be paid to the Ministry of Communications, technical standards employed by us in providing the services, maintenance and support procedures and protocols, our communications with customers and information to be provided to the Ministry of Communications on a regular basis. The regulations promulgated under the Israeli Communications Law, 1982, or the Communications Law, restrict ownership of our shares and who can serve as our directors. The regulations provide that a majority of our directors must be Israeli citizens and residents, Israeli citizens and residents must own at least 20% of our outstanding share capital and must have the right to appoint at least 20% of our directors. In addition, our licenses provide that, without the approval of the Ministry of Communications, no person may acquire shares representing 10% or more of our outstanding share capital. If these requirements are not complied with, we will be found to be in breach of our licenses and our licenses could be changed, suspended or revoked, and we may also incur substantial fines. See “Government Regulation–Licenses and Applications.” The domestic fixed-line, or DFL, license granted to our wholly-owned subsidiary, 012 Telecom, in February 2007 requires us to provide subscribers to our local telephony services the ability to place international calls through the international operators in Israel. Currently, due to technical limitations, our subscribers cannot dial abroad through the international operators of their choice, but we expect that this issue will be resolved by July 2008. We received a letter from the Ministry stating that we are allegedly in breach of the license and requesting our response. While we believe that we are currently in compliance with all other material requirements of our licenses, the technical standards used to measure these requirements as well as other license provisions are subject to interpretation and we cannot be certain of our compliance. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that our licenses will not be revoked, will be extended when necessary, or, if extended, on what terms an extension may be granted. 8 The industry in which we operate is dynamic, and we will need to seek additional licenses, including the license to provide WiMAX services on a commercial basis, in the future. Our inability to obtain any such new license may negatively impact our growth opportunities and revenues. The communications industry is constantly evolving. New technologies and processes may require additional licenses from the Ministry of Communications. We cannot be certain that any such future licenses, including the license to provide WiMAX services on a commercial basis, will be granted to us or to our competitors and not to us, or on what terms they may be granted to us or to our competitors. Our ability to introduce new services, such as those based on WiMAX technologies, depends upon our ability to receive the appropriate licenses. To date, no licenses to provide WiMAX services on a commercial basis have been granted. In September 2007, the Ministry of Communication announced its intention to publish, following a public hearing, its policy for the “allocation of frequencies for broadband wireless access networks,” which includes the frequencies used by the WiMAX technology. According to the draft policy, which may be materially amended in the future, new operators that do not hold licenses issued under the Communications Law will have priority in the allocation of the frequencies, which may be granted based on tenders or on a “first request, first receive” basis. The Ministry of Communications’ draft policy does not fully specify the method that will be used in the allocation of the frequencies, and it does not specify the weight that will be given to each consideration. Our introduction of any new licensed services under an existing license must be authorized by the Ministry of Communications and is subject to a review period of up to 60 days, which may be extended by the Ministry of Communications. Such review may cause us to lose critical time in bringing new services to market. Furthermore, the Ministry of Communications may refuse to allow us to introduce such new services or make the introduction of the services subject to various conditions. We are also considering the expansion of our service offerings to include IPTV, as well as MVNO. We have applied to the Ministry of Communications for a full MVNO license although the regulatory framework for the grant of such a license has not yet been established. Our inability to obtain any new license, including the license to provide WiMAX services, IPTV or MVNO on a commercial basis or to introduce new services under an existing license, may negatively impact our growth opportunities and revenues. Recently, the Gronau Committee, which was appointed by the Ministry of Communications to consider and recommend the best means to promote further sustainable competition in the Israeli communication market, issued its recommendation to the Minister of Communications. The Gronau Committee’s recommendations call for several structural changes within the communications markets, including Local Loop Unbundling of Bezeq’s infrastructure, which, if accepted and implemented, would allow us to compete in the MVNO and IPTV sector and improve our competitive position in the VOB business market, while worsening our position in other segments, by allowing the cellular operators in Israel to compete in the traditional long distance voice market. To date, the Minister of Communications has not yet commented on this report and there can be no assurance that the report will be implemented as recommended, or at all. We operate in the highly competitive communications industry with existing participants and potential participants that have significant resources and customers, and a regulatory authority that has encouraged new entrants, which could intensify price competition, increase our expenses and limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share. We are subject to intense competition, which we expect will continue in the future. Moreover, our services are subject to regulation by the Ministry of Communications, whose policy is to encourage new entrants and not limit the number of licenses, which may continue to increase competition and may lead to further reductions in prices and fees charged to customers. The Ministry of Communications has encouraged new entrants into the broadband access market. HOT, the incumbent local cable provider that offers cable-modem access, has been legally permitted since March 2002 to provide Internet services through its affiliates, but has chosen not to do so. While we cannot predict if or when HOT will become an ISP, its entry into the market could significantly harm our competitive position in the broadband access market. 9 The Ministry of Communications has also encouraged new entrants into the international telephony services sub-sector. Israel’s cellular operators are currently not licensed to provide international telephony services. If this situation were to change, competition would be further intensified and could require us to lower our prices, grant incentives to customers, increase selling and marketing expenses and related customer acquisition costs and could also result in increased customer churn. Furthermore, the operations of several of our competitors, Netvision, Barak and Globecall, were combined into a single entity by The IDB Group, a large Israeli investment and industrial group. In addition, in May 2008, NetVision announced that it signed an agreement to purchase 15% of the share capital of HOT by no later than August 2008. Such acquisition is subject to governmental approvals. These developments, subject to the Gronau Committee’s recommendations to enforce a structural separation in the HOT group, could create a more formidable competitor offering bundled international telephony, broadband Internet access, data, local telephony and mobile services, which could harm our competitive position. We expect other competitors, including companies that are not presently engaged in local and international telephony, to provide VoB services, as well as WiMAX services, when they receive the appropriate licenses from the Ministry of Communications, which could adversely impact our ability to increase our market share. We also compete against established alternative voice communication providers, such as Skype (a service of eBay Inc.), which are not subject to licensing restrictions in Israel, as well as independent voice over Internet protocol, or VoIP, service providers which may choose to sacrifice revenue in order to gain market share and may offer their services at lower prices or for free. Such competitive environment could intensify price competition and limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share of the local telephony market. Our hubbing services are subject to a high degree of volatility and any reduction in hubbing services customers could significantly reduce our revenues. The profitability of our hubbing services business is driven by the needs of our customers whose demand for hubbing services is constantly fluctuating. In late 2007, we determined to reduce our hubbing services business because of its lower operating margin. As a result, our hubbing services business declined significantly in the last fiscal quarter of 2007 and the first fiscal quarter of 2008. Our hubbing services business is likely to continue to be subject to a high degree of volatility and could result in fluctuations in our reported revenues and net income on a quarterly basis. A significant reduction in hubbing services activity could have an adverse affect on our operating revenues. We operate in a market which already exhibits maturity and high user penetration, and we may have to offer price reductions and increase marketing efforts to attract and retain customers, which may have a negative impact on our profitability. The Israeli communications market is mature, with both traditional voice and broadband access being particularly competitive segments of the communications market, as demonstrated by the estimated 99% household penetration of fixed telephone lines and 62% broadband access penetration rate as of February 2007, according to latest information published by the Ministry of Communications. Our future revenues will depend significantly on our ability to retain existing customers, to sell those customers additional services, such as local telephony, and to attract new customers from other providers and we may not be successful in doing so. In addition, the competitive market environment has required us in the past and may require us in the future to adopt an aggressive marketing policy in order to attract a greater number of customers, including reducing our rates. If adopted in the future, we cannot be certain that this strategy will be successful. Price reductions caused by increased competition, as well as the expenses associated with the marketing efforts required to attract and retain customers, may have a negative impact on our profitability. We are reliant on our senior management team and our managers and employees, and a loss of any key member of our senior management or the inability to retain highly qualified managers and employees could have an adverse effect on our future operations and profitability. Our future development is dependent upon our present and prospective management team, including Eli Holtzman, our vice chairman, Stella Handler, our chief executive officer, and Doron Ilan, our chief financial officer and vice president finance. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our officers or employees. The loss of any key member of our senior management for any reason may have an adverse effect on our operations and profitability. In addition, our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managers and employees. Competition for highly-skilled engineers and managers is intense in the industry in which we operate, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining qualified engineers and mangers to fulfill our current or future needs. This could adversely impact our operations and financial performance. 10 We may be subject to fines or face claims of being in violation of the Communications Law or in violation of the Ministry’s number portability plan in connection with the requirement to provide number portability, which could adversely affect our profitability. As a result of an amendment to the Communications Law in March 2005, international, cellular and landline telephony operators were required to implement number portability by September 1, 2006. Number portability permits local telephony subscribers to change to another network operator without having to change their telephone numbers. Despite efforts to introduce the requisite technology and coordinate the transition to number portability by September 1, 2006, none of the operators was able to implement number portability. On May 24, 2007, all of the cellular and landline telephony operators, including us and our subsidiary, 012 Telecom, our landline telephony operator, were notified by the Ministry of Communications that failure to implement the number portability program constituted a continued violation of the Communications Law and the number portability plan published by the Ministry of Communications in August 2005. We were notified that the Ministry of Communications is considering imposing fines of NIS 2,032,750 ($478,407) and additional daily fines of NIS 6,450 ($1,518), beginning May 25, 2007. We submitted our response to the notifications on July 5, 2007 and implemented number portability in December 2007. To date, the Ministry of Communications has not imposed any fines. Our VoB services are not the same as traditional voice services and may not be adopted by mainstream customers, which could harm our future growth. Our VoB services are not the same as traditional voice services. The quality of our VoB service is dependent to a great measure on the quality of broadband access provided by Bezeq and HOT, over which we have no control. Among the differences between our VoB service and traditional voice services are: · If our customers experience a loss of power, our services will be interrupted; · Our VoB services will be interrupted if our customers experience interruption in broadband access; and · Depending on the quality of the broadband access provided to our customers, they may experience lower call quality than that experienced over traditional fixed-line telephones, including static, echoes and delays in transmission. The growth of our VoB business is dependent on the adoption of our services by mainstream customers and therefore the rate of adoption may have a significant effect on our growth. If customers do not accept these differences between our service and traditional voice service, they may choose to continue using traditional voice services or may choose to return to services provided by traditional telephone companies. Our operations depend on our ability to successfully expand and upgrade our network and integrate new technologies and equipment into our network. Any future system failures or difficulty in expanding or upgrading our network, or making new features available, could increase our expenses and negatively impact our financial results. Capacity constraints within our networks and those of our suppliers have occurred in the past and will likely occur in the future. As the number of our customers using broadband services and the amount and type of information they wish to transmit over the Internet increases, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, processing systems and network infrastructure, which could be expensive and involve substantial management resources and capital expenditures. We do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of any such increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure in a timely and cost-efficient manner. Any future system failures or difficulty in expanding or upgrading our network, or making new features available could increase our expenses and negatively impact our financial results. The broadband and traditional voice services markets are subject to rapid technological change, which could adversely affect our ability to compete and increase our expenses. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing and converging technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new service announcements, introductions and enhancements and changing customer demands. New services and technologies may be superior to the services or technologies that we use and may render our services and technologies obsolete or require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or technologies. The development and expansion of our services is dependent upon adopting new technologies and updating our systems to meet new standards. This can be a lengthy process involving long and complex evaluations and decision-making procedures that can continue over a number of months or even years. Our future success will depend on our ability to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our broadband and traditional voice services in response to competitive service offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. 11 The cost of implementing major infrastructure upgrade projects may fluctuate due to a number of variables over which we have little or no control, and even though we estimate the cost of such projects based on our previous experience, costs may exceed our estimations. Such fluctuations may be due to a lengthy or complex implementation process and/or the lack of commitment of sufficient resources of, or delays caused by, the ultimate supplier and could increase our expenses and have a negative impact on our results of operations or financial performance. We may not be successful in our introduction of WiMAX services, which may adversely affect our growth strategy. In March 2007, we were awarded the first technology experimental license to conduct fixed WiMAX trials in Israel, which was later amended to also include mobile WiMAX trials. We commenced fixed and mobile WiMAX trials and intend to broaden our trials. WiMAX technology delivers transmissions via a wireless broadband connection from a single point to multi-points. The use of mobile WiMAX is not widespread and only a few operators in other countries have had any experience in operating such services on a commercial basis. If we are not successful in our introduction of WiMAX services or such services do not achieve customer acceptance, our growth strategy may be adversely affected. We may not be able to retain our present customers who use our legacy 015 international telephony prefix when we attempt to transfer them to our 012 international telephony prefix in accordance with regulatory requirements, which could result in a reduction in recurring revenues. In connection with our obtaining regulatory approval for the acquisition of 012 Golden Lines, the Ministry of Communications required us to cease offering our legacy 015 international telephony prefix by January 2008 and later extended the period to January 2009. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, we had NIS 13.4 million and NIS 27 ($7 million) million of revenues, respectively, from this service and we believe we have substantially retained this customer base since the acquisition. We may not be able to retain the customers who continue to use the 015 prefix when we attempt to transfer them to our 012 prefix, which we expect to occur prior to January 2009. This could have a negative impact on our recurring revenues. On January 10, 2008, Netvision Ltd., Netvision 013 Barak Ltd. and GlobeCall Communications Ltd., filed a petition and a request for temporary restraining order against the Ministry of Communications, our company and Internet Gold. Netvision and 013 Barak, who have merged their operations, claim that the Ministry of Communications’ decision to grant our company an additional year (until December 31, 2008) to operate the 015 international telephony access code in parallel with our 012 international telephony access code unjustly discriminates against them and provides our company a competitive and economic advantage, that the extension period granted is unreasonably long and that the process under which the decision was made was unfair since petitioners were not given a chance to be heard on the issue. The petitioners are seeking a court order that would nullify the extension and are also seeking to suspend the extension until a decision is rendered regarding their petition. A hearing was held on June 12, 2008 and we are waiting for the court’s decision. The earlier termination of the period in which we can continue to offer the 015 prefix may negatively impact our ability to transfer these accounts to our 012 prefix and have a negative impact on our revenues. If we do not successfully continue to develop our brand, we may be unable to attract enough customers to our services to maintain or increase our market share or to recover our selling and marketing expenses, which could harm our future revenues or our ability to implement our growth strategy and our net income may be adversely affected. We believe that we must maintain and strengthen awareness of our 012 Smile brand. If we do not successfully continue to develop our brand, we may be unable to attract additional customers and increase our market share. Brand recognition may become even more important in the future if competition increases in the communications market. We intend to continue to pursue a brand-enhancement strategy, which may include mass market and multimedia advertising, promotional programs, public relations activities and joint marketing programs. These initiatives will involve significant expenses. If our brand enhancement strategy is unsuccessful, we may not be able to attract additional customers, our sales and marketing expenses may never be recovered and we may be unable to increase future revenues or implement our growth strategy and our net income may be adversely affected. 12 We are dependent on certain suppliers and, if any of our arrangements with these suppliers are terminated, we may not be able to replace them on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. We rely on a number of third-party computer systems, networks and service providers, including local and international telephony and cable companies. All broadband Internet access by our customers is, and will continue to be, connected through the infrastructure of local access providers, Bezeq and HOT, and is dependent on the open access policy of the Ministry of Communications. At present, the Ministry of Communications does not permit HOT and Bezeq to charge us for use of their infrastructure. If such restriction is deregulated, we may incur substantial costs, which may adversely affect our profitability. Our ISP services are also dependent on the communications infrastructure owned and maintained by local access providers. Bezeq has suffered work stoppages on several occasions in recent years as a result of conflicts with its unionized employees. These work stoppages resulted in several days of interruption to the services we provide. In addition, Bezeq, HOT and other infrastructure providers have suffered technical network failures in the past. A disruption in our customer access to Israel’s fixed-line communications infrastructure could significantly impact the services that we provide to our customers. An increase in our cost of access to Israel’s fixed-line communications infrastructure could adversely impact our results of operations. We also depend on third parties for the physical repair and maintenance of leased lines. If an interruption or deterioration in the performance of these third-party services occurs, our services may be disrupted. Many of our services are dependent on the submarine infrastructure made available by Med Nautilus, which is owned by Telecom Italia and connects countries bordering the Mediterranean Sea to all major Western European countries and to the United States. Med Nautilus has an effective monopoly over the provision of international submarine services to the Israeli communications industry. Although prices in respect of maintenance and current capacity are agreed to on a long term basis and our contract with Med Nautilus sets out the prices to be paid by us for additional capacity for approximately two years, Med Nautilus has the ability to raise prices without us being able to seek an alternative supplier for additional capacity. Many of our relationships with third party providers are terminable upon short notice. In addition, many of our third party suppliers and communications carriers sell or lease services to our competitors and may be, or in the future may become, competitors themselves. If any of our arrangements with third parties is terminated, we may not be able to replace them on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. We are exposed to risks in connection with our network infrastructure and are dependent on services we receive from our external suppliers. If the level of service we receive from our external suppliers decreases, we may not be able to maintain the quality and breadth of our services, which could reduce our revenues and harm our operations. Our network platform is highly complex. Multiple faults occurring at the same time could severely affect our service. Although our engineering staff is trained to operate and maintain our systems, there are numerous functions that they are unable to perform without external support. In addition, if the level of service we receive from our external suppliers decreases, it may adversely impact our ability to properly maintain and operate our systems and therefore have a direct effect on our service. Also, as VoB technology continues to evolve, we will be faced with the risks associated with the use of new software. We do not have a direct network connection to all the possible call destinations around the world and depend on our business partners to connect calls generated by our customers to their final destinations worldwide. Our level of service is largely dependent on the level of service we receive from our international partners with respect to both call completion as well as call quality. Although we make extensive efforts to ensure quality of the calls as well as the breadth of our services, we cannot be sure that our partners will provide an adequate level of service, that we would be able to successfully replace a partner should that become necessary or that we will be able to maintain and increase the quality and breadth of our services. 13 We may be subject to challenges to our trademarks and may lose our ability to use key third party intellectual property rights, which could negatively impact our operations and harm our future growth. We have various trademarks, trade secrets and copyrightable materials, as well as licenses to use third party software and trademarks. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, our business and financial results could suffer. There is no guarantee that trademarks we use will not be subject to infringement proceedings or that we will obtain registration of other trademarks for which we may seek protection in the future. We hold licenses to use various third party software and hardware products. We cannot guarantee that renewal of these licenses or any licenses for additional software or hardware that may be required to operate our business will be available as needed. While our third party licensors have represented to us that they have the right to license their software and hardware, and in some cases have agreed to provide indemnification, we cannot guarantee that our use of third party software and hardware does not infringe the rights of others. Application for some of our trademarks and service marks containing the SMILE logo were opposed. While the opposition proceeding was terminated due to the failure of the opponent to file evidence, there is no assurance that oppositions or cancellation proceeding challenging the registration of such marks will not be filed in the future. Any infringement claims, even if unsuccessful, could result in damage to our reputation and the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Our products and services may become obsolete, and we may not be able to develop competitive products or services on a timely basis or at all, which could negatively impact our ability to compete and our financial results. The communications services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, competitive pricing, frequent new service introductions, evolving industry standards and changing regulatory requirements. Each of these development efforts faces a number of continuing technological and operational challenges. We believe that our success depends on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these and other challenges and to offer competitive services on a timely basis. We face a number of difficulties and uncertainties associated with our reliance on future technological development, such as: · Other service providers may use more traditional and commercially proven means to deliver similar or alternative services or use more efficient, less expensive technologies; · Consumers may not subscribe to our services; · We may be unable to respond successfully to advances in competing technologies in a timely and cost-efficient manner; · We may lack the financial and operational resources necessary to enable migration toward WiMAX technology and the development and deployment of network components and software that do not currently exist and that may require substantial upgrades to or replacements of existing infrastructure; and · Existing, proposed or undeveloped technologies may render our existing or planned services less profitable or obsolete. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption, which could expose us to material risk of loss or litigation and harm our reputation. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, communications failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of Internet vandalism and similar events. Any of these events could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation. In addition, if a computer virus, sabotage or other failure affecting our system is highly publicized, our reputation could be damaged and customer growth could decrease. While we currently have partially redundant systems, we do not have full redundancy, or alternative providers of hosting services. In addition, we do not have a formal disaster recovery plan, and do not carry sufficient natural disaster or business interruption insurance to compensate for losses that could occur. 14 We may be exposed to substantial liabilities arising out of our broadband and traditional voice services, which could increase our costs, divert management time and resources and adversely affect our results of operations. The law relating to the liability of ISPs for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within Israel and internationally. Claims by private or governmental entities may be brought against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that may be posted online or generated by our customers. Our defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources. In addition, our professional liability insurance policy may not provide sufficient protection or cover all such exposure. Furthermore, new legislation and court decisions may expose us to liabilities or affect our services. Additional laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet, covering issues such as content, user privacy, pricing and other controls. For example, the Ministry of Communications is currently considering the implementation of broadcast content regulation with respect to electronic distribution of video content, including content distributed over the Internet, which would, among other things, block violent and sexual content for the protection of minors. It is also possible that if any information provided directly by us contains errors or is otherwise negligently provided to users, third parties could make claims against us. For example, we offer Web-based e-mail services, which expose us to potential risks, such as liabilities or claims resulting from unsolicited e-mail, lost or misdirected messages, illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail, or interruptions or delays in e-mail service. In the event that we are found responsible for any such liability and are required to pay damages, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Even if we ultimately succeed, legal action against us would divert management time and resources, could be costly and is likely to generate negative publicity. We may also be forced to implement costly measures to alter the way our services are provided to avoid any further potential liability. Concern about alleged health risks relating to radio frequency radiation from wireless and WiMAX antennae may subject us to litigation, discourage the use of our services and have an adverse effect on our business and revenues. There have been suggestions that radio frequency radiation from wireless and WiMAX antennae may be linked to health concerns, including increased incidences of cancer. Although medical reviews have concluded that evidence does not support a finding of adverse health effects as a result of wireless and WiMAX antennae, some studies have suggested that radio frequency emissions may cause certain adverse biological effects. Research on these and other health concerns is ongoing and may demonstrate a link between radio frequency radiation and health concerns. We and other wireless communications providers may be subject to litigation relating to these and other health concerns. Concerns over radio frequency radiation may discourage the use of our services and have an adverse effect on our business and revenues. Our VoB emergency calling service is different from the traditional emergency calling service and may expose us to significant liability. Our VoB emergency calling service is different from the traditional emergency calling service in ways that may cause significant delays, or even failures, in callers’ receipt of the emergency assistance they need. The only location information that our VoB emergency calling service can transmit to a dispatcher at a public safety answering point is the information that our customers have registered with us. A customer’s registered location may be different from the customer’s actual location at the time of the call because customers can make calls almost anywhere a broadband connection is available. In these instances, emergency callers must verbally advise the operator of their location at the time of the call and, in some cases, provide a call back number so that the call can be handled or forwarded to an appropriate emergency dispatcher. Moreover, if a customer experiences a broadband or power outage, or if a network failure occurs, the customer will not be able to reach an emergency services provider. Customers may attempt to hold us responsible for any loss, damage, personal injury or death suffered as a result. 15 We may need to raise additional funds in the future, which may subject you to dilution, and may be unable to do so on favorable or acceptable terms or at all, which may harm our ability to expand, develop new or enhanced services, or respond to competitive pressures. If cash generated from our operations is insufficient to meet our operating and strategic needs, we may need to raise additional funds in order to expand, develop new or enhanced services, or respond to competitive pressures. The availability of funds for future expansion and the development of new or enhanced services will depend on a number of factors, including our operating performance, our ability to issue equity and market conditions. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the holdings of our shareholders will be diluted and their ownership percentage will be reduced. Furthermore, new securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our ordinary shares. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available when and to the extent required or that, if available, it will be on acceptable terms. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Internet Gold, Smile.Media and Eurocom Communications Ltd. Our historical financial information may not be representative of the results we would have achieved as a separate stand-alone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical financial information included in this annual report for the periods prior to our initial public offering has been derived from Internet Gold’s accounting records. Internet Gold did not separately account for our business, and we did not operate as a separate, stand-alone company, for the historical periods presented prior to our initial public offering. Therefore, our historical financial information may not reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been a separate stand-alone company prior to our initial public offering or what our results will be in the future. This is primarily a result of the following factors: · Our historical financial results for the periods prior to our initial public offering reflect allocations of corporate expenses from Internet Gold; · Our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, historically have been satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of Internet Gold. Internet Gold is no longer required to provide us with funds to finance our working capital or other cash requirements and we may in the future need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. In addition, we may have a credit rating that is lower than Internet Gold’s credit rating and may incur debt on terms and at interest rates that will not be as favorable as those generally enjoyed in the past; and · Significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of our operating as an independent public subsidiary of Internet Gold. These changes could result in increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale, stand-alone costs for services currently provided by Internet Gold and Smile.Media, the need for additional personnel to perform services currently provided by Internet Gold and the legal, accounting, compliance and other costs associated with being a public company with equity securities traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. Because Internet Gold and Eurocom Communications control substantially all the voting power of our ordinary shares, investors will not be able to affect the outcome of any shareholder vote. Internet Gold owns approximately 72.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares and Eurocom Communications owned 58.82% of Internet Gold’s outstanding shares as of June 23, 2008. Mr. Shaul Elovitch, our chairman and the chairman of Internet Gold and its parent, Eurocom Communications, and the controlling shareholder of Eurocom Communications, will be able to exercise control over our operations and business strategy and control the outcome of all matters involving shareholder approval. 16 For as long as Internet Gold has a controlling interest in our company, it, Eurocom Communications and Mr. Elovitch indirectly, will have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to potential mergers or other business combinations involving us, our acquisition or disposition of assets, our incurrence of indebtedness, our issuance of any additional ordinary shares or other equity securities, our repurchase or redemption of ordinary shares and our payment of dividends. Similarly, as long as Eurocom Communications has a controlling interest in Internet Gold, our corporate parent and Mr. Elovitch will have the power to determine or significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the power to elect all of the members of our board of directors (except outside directors), prevent an acquisition or any other change in control of us. Because the interests of Internet Gold and Mr. Elovitch may differ from the interests of our other shareholders, actions taken by Internet Gold with respect to us may not be favorable to our other shareholders. See “Description of Share Capital” and “Related Party Transactions.” Conflicts of interest may arise between Internet Gold, Eurocom Communications, other companies within the Eurocom group and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us and result in reduced revenues and income. Conflicts of interest may arise between Internet Gold, Eurocom Communications, and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Three of our directors continue to serve as directors of Internet Gold. Areas in which conflicts of interest between Internet Gold and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: · Loss of opportunities. Our relationship with Eurocom Communications may eliminate or reduce some opportunities for revenue growth. Eurocom Communications, or its affiliates could, to the extent permitted by law, prevent us from entering into commercial relationships with third parties, such as its competitors, additionally its competitors may choose not to enter into commercial relationships with us because of our close relationship with Eurocom Communications and its affiliates. Affiliates of Eurocom Communications include YES, Partner Communications Company Ltd., or Partner, a major cellular operator, and Eurocom Cellular Communications Ltd., a distributor and official representative of Nokia in Israel, and a major supplier of Partner and Cellcom Israel Ltd.; · Cross officerships, directorships and share ownership. The ownership interests of our directors in the ordinary shares of Internet Gold could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by Internet Gold and Eurocom Communications, disagreement over the desirability of a potential acquisition opportunity or employee retention or recruiting. In addition, Internet Gold may take an opportunity for itself or preclude us from taking advantage of a corporate opportunity; and · Intercompany transactions. From time to time, Internet Gold, Eurocom Communications, other companies within the Eurocom group or Smile.Media may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of such companies and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the independent directors on our board or a committee of disinterested directors, there can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm’s-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Future sales or distributions of our ordinary shares by Internet Gold could depress the market price for our ordinary shares. Internet Gold may sell a portion of our ordinary shares that it owns, including pursuant to demand registration rights described elsewhere in this annual report, or distribute those shares to its shareholders. Sales or distributions by Internet Gold of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market or to its shareholders could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares. Internet Gold has advised us that it currently intends to continue to hold our ordinary shares that it owns. To effect the transfer of the Communications Business from Internet Gold to us on a tax free basis, Internet Gold undertook not to sell ordinary shares constituting more than 10% of its holdings in us until the end of 2008. Internet Gold has also undertaken to comply with the ownership requirements of the licenses we obtained from the Ministry of Communications in any sale, transfer or disposition of our ordinary shares. Our licenses require that Israeli residents and citizens have minimum shareholdings. Throughout the terms of our VoB and DFL licenses, at least 20% of our means of control must be held by an Israeli citizen and resident or by an entity the controlling shareholder of which is an Israeli resident and citizen, while under the international telephony license at least 26% of our means of control must be held by Israelis at all times. See “Business–Government Regulation–Licenses and Applications.” 17 If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our share price may suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its combined subsidiaries’ internal controls over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we will be required to document and test our internal control procedures, and our management will be required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal controls over financial reporting. In connection with our separation from Internet Gold, we will need to begin the documentation and testing of our internal controls. As a new public company, we will be required to include a report by management under Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and an attestation report by our independent auditors under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for the first time starting with the filing of our second annual report on Form 20-F, which will be our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal controls over financial reporting are relatively new and complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. Our management identified a material weakness in our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting with respect to certain spreadsheets utilized in the period-end financial reporting process, and initiated remediation of this deficiency. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our share price may suffer. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our ordinary shares and the success of your investment will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation of the market price of our ordinary shares, which is uncertain and unpredictable. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment in our company. The success of your investment will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation of the market price of our ordinary shares, which is uncertain and unpredictable. Our ordinary shares may not appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your ordinary shares. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from those under Delaware law. Because we are an Israeli company, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in a Delaware corporation. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his, her or its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable to shareholder votes on, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and interested party transactions requiring shareholder approval. In addition, a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or executive officer in the company has a duty of fairness towards the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revisions in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. 18 As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements, which may not afford shareholders with the same protections that shareholders of domestic companies have. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. As an Israeli company listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we expect to follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, composition of the board of directors, director nomination procedure, compensation of officers, distribution of annual reports to shareholders and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we expect to follow Israeli law instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules that require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity-based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. If U.S. tax authorities were to treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” that could have adverse consequences on U.S. holders. Holders of our ordinary shares who are United States residents face income tax risks. There is a risk that we will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company.” Our treatment as a passive foreign investment company could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the holders of our ordinary shares and would likely cause a reduction in the value of such shares. A foreign corporation will be treated as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income,” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s gross assets produce, or are held for the production of, such types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” Those holders of shares in a passive foreign investment company who are citizens or residents of the United States or domestic entities would alternatively be subject to a special adverse U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the passive foreign investment company, the distributions they receive from the passive foreign investment company and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the passive foreign investment company. In particular, any dividends paid by us would not be treated as “qualified dividend income” eligible for preferential tax rates in the hands of non-corporate U.S. shareholders. Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel We conduct our operations in Israel and our business focuses on the Israeli audience, therefore our results of operation may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. We are incorporated, based in and currently derive substantially all of our revenues from markets within the State of Israel. As a result, the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel’s international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. There has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in September 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity through 2007. The future effect of this deterioration and violence on the Israeli economy and our operations is unclear. The election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council in January 2006 resulted in an escalation in violence among Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. In July 2006, extensive hostilities began along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon and to a lesser extent in the Gaza Strip. In June 2007, there was an escalation in violence in the Gaza Strip resulting in Hamas effectively controlling the Gaza Strip. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians as well as tension between Israel and the neighboring Syria and Lebanon may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. We may be restricted in the conduct of our operations during periods of national emergency, which could negatively affect our business operations. During periods of national emergency, the Minister of Communications and other governmental authorities empowered by law may issue various instructions regarding the use of our network, including the use of the network by the security forces. In addition, the Israeli Equipment Registration and IDF Mobilization Law, 1987 permits the registration, taking and use of engineering equipment and facilities by Israel’s Defense Forces. These actions could adversely affect our business operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by significant fluctuations of the NIS against foreign currencies, our currency hedging positions and by changes in the Israeli Consumer Price Index. Our purchases of international bandwidth and other international transactions expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies, principally the U.S. dollar. Most of our sales are denominated in NIS. When the Israeli inflation rate exceeds the rate of the NIS devaluation against foreign currencies, our NIS expenses increase to the extent of the difference between the rates. A significant disparity of this kind may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We engage in currency hedging transactions to reduce the impact on our cash flows and results of operations of currency fluctuations. We recognize freestanding derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities in our balance sheet and we measure those instruments at fair value. However, accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument, such as a currency hedging instrument, depends on the intended use of the derivative instrument and the resulting designation. For derivative instruments that are not designated as cash flow hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in our income statement without any reference to the change in value of the related budgeted expenditures. These differences could result in fluctuations in our reported net income on a quarterly basis. Further, as the principal amount of, and interest that we pay on, our Series A Debentures are linked to the Israeli Consumer Price Index, any increase in the Israeli Consumer Price Index will increase our financial expenses and could adversely affect our results of operations. Our shareholders generally may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us, our executive officers and directors and some of the experts named in this annual report, or asserting U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel and all of our executive officers and directors named in this annual report reside outside the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, all of our assets and most of the assets of our executive officers and directors and some of the experts named in this annual report are located outside the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. For more information regarding the enforceability of civil liabilities against us, our directors and executive officers and certain of the experts named in this annual report, including the terms under which certain judgments may be enforced by an Israeli court, please see “Enforceability of Civil Liabilities.” 20 Provisions of Israeli law, our licenses, our articles of association and the tax ruling issued to us may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders, including Israeli shareholders and shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of numerous conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are restricted. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when the time expires, tax then becomes payable even if no actual disposition of the shares has occurred. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. See “Description of Share Capital–Approval of Related Party Transactions” and “Israeli Taxation” for additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law. The regulations promulgated under the Israeli Communications Law, 1982, restrict ownership of our shares and who can serve as our directors. The regulations provide that a majority of our directors must be Israeli citizens and residents. Under the regulations applicable to our VoB and DFL licenses, at least 20% of our means of control must be held by an Israeli citizen and resident. Under the regulations applicable to our international telephony license at least 26% of our means of control must be held by Israeli citizens and residents at all times. In addition, our licenses provide that, without the approval of the Ministry of Communications, no person may acquire shares representing 10% or more of our outstanding share capital. A separate approval from the Ministry of Communications is required for the acquisition of 25% or more of our means of control or for the acquisition of our means of control providing its holder with the direct or indirect ability to have a significant influence over our operations, and an additional approval from the Ministry of Communications is required for the acquisition of 50% or more of our means of control or for acquisition of our means of control providing its holder with the direct or indirect ability to direct our operations. The prior-mentioned provisions do not apply to the acquisition of “Traded Means of Control,” defined as means of control listed on a stock exchange or that were offered to the public, provided that the initial public offering was approved by the Ministry of Communications and that the acquisition of traded means of control does not involve a change of control. Our general licenses require us to provide written notice to the Ministry of Communications of the acquisition of Traded Means of Control as a result of which any entity becomes a holder of 5% or more of our means of control within 21 days of becoming aware of such acquisition. In addition, we are required to apply to the Ministry of Communications for approval within 21 days of becoming aware of (i) an acquisition of Traded Means of Control as a result of which any entity becomes a holder of 10% or more of our means of control, (ii) an acquisition of 25% or more of our Traded Means of Control, or (iii) an acquisition of our Traded Means of Control providing its holder with the direct or indirect ability to have a significant influence over our operations, provided that in any and all such cases, the acquisition does not result in a transfer of control over us. Any holding of our Traded Means of Control that requires the approval of the Ministry of Communications will be, unless the approval is granted, regarded by us as “dormant shares” within the meaning of the Israeli Companies Act until such approval is obtained, such that the shares carry no rights and may not be voted at general meeting except for the right to receive their pro rata portion of dividends and distributions paid to our shareholders. These provisions of our licenses are incorporated into our articles of association. If these requirements are not complied with, we will be found to be in breach of our licenses and our licenses could be changed, suspended or revoked, and we may also incur substantial fines. See “Business–Government Regulation.” In addition, such requirements may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company. 21 The tax ruling issued to us by the Israeli Tax Authority in connection with the transfer of the Communications Business from Internet Gold includes certain provisions that may prevent an acquisition or change of control until the end of 2008. The ruling requires that we do not sell more than 50% of the assets transferred to us by Internet Gold, and prohibits Internet Gold from selling ordinary shares constituting more than 10% of its holdings in us until the end of 2008. See “Israeli Taxation–Ruling Issued by the Israeli Tax Authority.” 