D. Risk Factors This section is intended to be a summary of more detailed discussion contained elsewhere in this annual report. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. As a result, the market price of our units and the BDRs could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our financial condition and business operations. Risks Related to Our Business, the Operations of Our Joint Venture, and Industries in Which We Operate We operate in industries in which the demand and the market price for our products are cyclical and are affected by general economic conditions in Brazil and globally. The ethanol and sugar industries, both globally and in Brazil, have historically been cyclical and sensitive to domestic and international changes in supply and demand. Ethanol is marketed as a fuel additive to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline, as an enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended or as a substitute fuel for gasoline. As a result, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply of and demand for gasoline, and our business and financial performance may be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in the demand for and/or price of gasoline. The increase in the production and sale of flex fuel vehicles (hybrid vehicles, that run with ethanol or gasoline or both combined in any proportion) has resulted, in part, from lower taxation, since 2002, of such vehicles compared to gasoline only cars. This favorable tax treatment may be eliminated and the production of flex fuel vehicles may decrease, which could adversely affect demand for ethanol. Historically, the international sugar market has experienced periods of limited supply—causing sugar prices and industry profit margins to increase—followed by an expansion in the industry that results in oversupply—causing declines in sugar prices and industry profit margins. In addition, fluctuations in prices for ethanol or sugar may occur, for various other reasons, including factors beyond our control, such as: · fluctuations in gasoline prices; · variances in the production capacities of our competitors; and · the availability of substitute goods for the ethanol and sugar products we produce. The prices we are able to obtain for sugar depends, in large part, on prevailing market prices. These market conditions, both in Brazil and internationally, are beyond our control. The wholesale price of sugar has a significant impact on our profits. Like other agricultural commodities, sugar is subject to price fluctuations resulting from weather, natural disasters, harvest levels, agricultural investments, government policies and programs for the agricultural sector, domestic and foreign trade policies, shifts in supply and demand, increasing purchasing power, global production of similar or competing products, and other factors beyond our control. In addition, a significant portion of the total worldwide sugar production is traded on exchanges and thus is subject to speculation, which could affect the price of sugar and our results of operations. The price of sugar, in particular, is also affected by producers’ compliance with sugar export requirements and the resulting effects on domestic supply. As a consequence, sugar prices have been subject to higher historical volatility when compared to many other commodities. Competition from alternative sweeteners, including saccharine and high fructose corn syrup, known as 11 Table of Contents “HFCS,” changes in Brazilian or international agricultural or trade policies or developments relating to international trade, including those under the World Trade Organization, are factors that can directly or indirectly result in lower domestic or global sugar prices. Any prolonged or significant decrease in sugar prices could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Sugar prices reached the highest levels in nearly 30 years during fiscal 2010, reflecting the deficit in global sugar production. If we are unable to maintain sales at generally prevailing market prices for ethanol and sugar in Brazil and internationally, or if we are unable to export sufficient quantities of ethanol and sugar to assure an appropriate domestic market balance, our ethanol and sugar business as well as our cash flow may be adversely affected. Ethanol prices are directly correlated to the price of sugar, so that a decline in the price of sugar will adversely affect both our ethanol and sugar businesses. The price of ethanol generally is closely associated with the price of sugar and is increasingly becoming correlated to the price of oil. A vast majority of ethanol in Brazil is produced at sugarcane mills that produce both ethanol and sugar. Because sugarcane millers are able to alter their product mix in response to the relative prices of ethanol and sugar, this results in the prices of both products being directly correlated, and the correlation between ethanol and sugar may increase over time. In addition, sugar prices in Brazil are determined by prices in the world market, so that there is a correlation between Brazilian ethanol prices and world sugar prices. Because flex fuel vehicles allow consumers to choose between gasoline and ethanol at the pump rather than at the showroom, ethanol prices are now becoming increasingly correlated to gasoline prices and, consequently, oil prices. We believe that the correlation among the three products will increase over time. Accordingly, a decline in sugar prices will have an adverse effect on the financial performance of our ethanol and sugar businesses, and a decline in oil prices may have an adverse effect on that of our ethanol business, including on its cash flows. Raízen Energia may not successfully acquire or develop additional production capacity through greenfield projects or expansion of existing facilities. Raízen Energia may explore growth opportunities in the future. We do not have environmental or other permits, designs or engineering, procurement and construction contracts with respect to any potential projects. As a result, we may not complete these projects on a timely basis or at all, and may not realize the related benefits we anticipate. In addition, we may be unable to obtain the required financing for these projects on satisfactory terms, or at all. The integration of greenfield projects or expansion of our existing facilities may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be used for the development and ongoing expansion of our existing operations. Planned or future greenfield projects or expansion of existing facilities may not enhance our financial performance. Raízen Energia may not successfully implement our plans to sell energy from our cogeneration projects, and the Brazilian government’s regulation of the energy sector may affect our business and financial performance. Our current total installed energy cogeneration capacity is approximately 934 MW, which is used to generate energy for our own industrial operations and to sell surplus energy to third parties. The Brazilian government regulates the energy sector extensively. We may not be able to satisfy all the requirements necessary to acquire new contracts or to otherwise comply with Brazilian energy regulation. Changes to the current energy regulation or federal authorization programs, and the creation for more stringent criteria for qualification in future public energy auctions, may adversely affect the implementation of this element of our business strategy. Raízen Energia and Raízen Combustíveis are subject to the application of regulatory penalties in case of non-compliance with the terms and conditions of their authorizations. Raízen Energia performs generation activities in accordance with the regulation applicable to the energy sector and with the terms and conditions of its authorizations granted by the Federal Government, by means of ANEEL. The term of such authorizations varies from 30 to 35 years. ANEEL may apply regulatory penalties to Raízen Energia in case of non-compliance with the authorizations or with the energy sector regulation. Such penalties may include warnings, fines (in some cases up to 2% of our 12 Table of Contents revenues for the last 12 months), restrictions to Raízen Energia’s operations and revocation of its authorizations, in accordance with the gravity of the infraction. In addition, Raízen Combustíveis performs fuel distribution activities in accordance with the regulation applicable to the oil & gas sector and with the terms and conditions of its authorization granted by the Federal Government, by means of the ANP. The ANP may apply regulatory penalties to Raízen Combustíveis in case of non-compliance with the authorizations or with the oil & gas sector regulation. Such penalties may include fines, seizure and/or destruction of product, cancellation of product registry, partial or total interdiction of commercial establishments, revocation of regulatory authorization, among others. The fines may vary from R$5,000 to R$5,000,000 in accordance with type and gravity of the infraction. Raízen Energia and Raízen Combustíveis cannot assure that they will not be penalized by ANEEL or ANP, respectively, nor can they assure you that they will comply with all terms and conditions of their authorizations and with the regulation applicable to their respective businesses, which may adversely affect our business. Raízen Energia may engage in hedging transactions, which involve risks that can harm our financial performance. We are exposed to market risks arising from the conduct of our business activities—in particular, market risks arising from changes in commodity prices, exchange rates or interest rates. In an attempt to minimize the effects of volatility of sugar prices and exchange rates on our cash flows and results of operations, we engage in hedging transactions involving commodities and exchange rate futures, options, forwards and swaps. We also engage in interest rate-related hedging transactions from time to time. Hedging transactions expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price of commodities or exchange rate. We may incur significant hedging-related losses in the future. We hedge against market price fluctuations by fixing the prices of our sugar export volumes and exchange rates. Since we record derivatives at fair value, to the extent that the market prices of our products exceed the fixed price under our hedging policy, our results will be lower than they would have been if we had not engaged in such transactions as a result of the related non-cash derivative expenses. As a result, our financial performance would be adversely affected during periods in which commodities prices increase. Alternatively, we may choose not to engage in hedging transactions in the future, which could adversely affect our financial performance during periods in which commodities prices decrease. Raízen Energia and Raízen Combustíveis face significant competition, which may adversely affect our market share and profitability. The ethanol and sugar industries are highly competitive. Internationally, we compete with global ethanol and sugar producers such as Poet, Inc., Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, Cargill, Inc. and A.E. Staley Manufacturing Company (a subsidiary of Tate & Lyle, PLC). Some of our competitors are divisions of larger enterprises and have greater financial resources than us. In Brazil, we compete with numerous small to medium-size producers. Despite increased consolidation, the Brazilian ethanol and sugar industries remain highly fragmented. Our major competitors in Brazil are Biosev (the second largest ethanol and sugar producer in Brazil), Tereos - Guarani (the third-largest ethanol and sugar producer in Brazil), Bunge, Santa Terezinha, São Martinho, Carlos Lyra, Tercio Wanderley, Zilor, Oscar Figueiredo, Da Pedra, and Irmãos Biagi and other ethanol and sugar producers in Brazil that market their ethanol and sugar products through the Cooperative of Sugarcane, Sugar and Ethanol Producers of the state of São Paulo (Cooperativa de Produtores de Cana-de-açúcar, Açúcar e Álcool do Estado de São Paulo), or Copersucar. During the 2011/2012 harvest, Copersucar was comprised of producers in the states of São Paulo, Minas Gerais and Paraná. We are not a member of Copersucar. We face strong competition from international producers – in particular, in highly regulated and protected markets, such as the United States and the European Union. Historically, imports of sugar have not provided substantial competition for us in Brazil due to, among other factors, the production and logistical cost-competitiveness of sugar produced in Brazil. If the Brazilian government creates incentives for sugar imports, we could face increased competition in the Brazilian market by foreign producers. Many factors influence our competitive position, including the availability, quality and cost of fertilizer, energy, water, chemical products and labor. Some of our international competitors have greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases 13 Table of Contents and broader product ranges than we do. If we are unable to remain competitive with these producers in the future, our market share may be adversely affected. The fuel distribution and lubricant market in Brazil is highly competitive. We compete with domestic fuel distributors who purchase substantially all of their fuels from Petrobras. There are very few domestic competitors, such as us, who import certain products into Brazil. In addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and retail consumers. Certain of our competitors, such as Petrobras, have larger fuel distribution networks and vertically integrated oil refineries, and may be able to realize lower per-barrel costs or higher margins per barrel of throughput. Our principal competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do. Because of their integrated operations and larger capitalization, these companies may be more flexible in responding to volatile industry or market conditions, such as shortages of crude oil and other feedstock or intense price fluctuations. The actions of our competitors could lead to lower prices or reduced margins for the products we sell, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and our financial performance. Transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs that could adversely affect Comgás’ results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Comgás’ activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidents and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of Comgás’ operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses. In accordance with customary industry practice, Comgás maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. The occurrence of any of these events if not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Natural gas commodity price changes may affect the operating costs and competitive positions of Comgás’ businesses which could adversely affect its results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Natural gas prices historically have been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for natural gas are subject to a variety of factors that are beyond Comgás’ control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the level of consumer demand for, and the supply of, natural gas, processing, gathering and transportation availability, statutory gas supply purchase obligations, price and availability of alternative fuel sources, weather conditions, natural disasters and political conditions or hostilities in natural gas producing regions. In addition, natural gas supply agreements have their payment terms made up of two portions: (1) one is indexed to a basket of combustible oils in the international market and is adjusted quarterly, and (2) the other is adjusted annually based on the inflation rate. The price of oil is measured in R$/m3. Furthermore, natural gas supply agreements often take the form of a “take or pay” agreement, pursuant to which Comgás might be required to pay the difference in amounts between actual consumption and the contract amount. Variations and uncertainties in the price and demand of oil are beyond our control and may adversely affect our results of operations. Renewal of our natural gas concession agreements and the terms we will receive if such renewals are granted are not guaranteed and our growth strategy may be adversely affected if we cannot obtain new concessions or lose an existing concession. We carry out our natural gas distribution activities pursuant to concession agreements entered into with the Government of the state of São Paulo and are regulated by ARSESP for 30-year terms with a one-time possibility of renewal for an additional 20 years. The Brazilian constitution requires that all concessions relating to public services be awarded through a public bidding process. We are required to meet certain requirements to renew our concession agreements, and although our expectation is that we will meet these requirements, we cannot assure you that our concession agreements will be renewed, or that they will be renewed on the same terms. If our concession agreements are not renewed, or are renewed with less favorable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively affected. Our business is subject to regulation, control and supervision of ARSESP and ANP, which could affect our financial performance. ARSESP establishes a maximum value to our rates and regulates and supervises our 14 Table of Contents business. Pursuant to the concession agreements, every five years the rates are reviewed by the ARSESP, which directly affects the margins and Comgás’ results positively or negatively. Such margins are adjusted annually by the IGP-M index price minus the efficiency factor determined for each tariff cycle by ARSESP. As a result, the implementation of our growth strategy and the normal course of our business may be adversely affected by government actions. A reduction in market demand for ethanol or a change in governmental policies that ethanol be added to gasoline may materially adversely affect our business. Governmental authorities of several countries, including Brazil and certain states of the United States, currently require the use of ethanol as an additive to gasoline. Since 1997, the Brazilian Sugar and Alcohol Interministerial Council (Conselho Interministerial do Açúcar e Álcool) has set the percentage of anhydrous ethanol that must be used as an additive to gasoline (currently, at 25%). Approximately one-half of all fuel ethanol in Brazil is used to fuel automobiles that run on a blend of anhydrous ethanol and gasoline; the remainder is used in either flex fuel vehicles or vehicles powered by hydrous ethanol alone. Other countries have similar governmental policies requiring various blends of anhydrous ethanol and gasoline. In addition, flex fuel vehicles in Brazil are currently taxed at lower levels than gasoline-only vehicles, which has contributed to the increase in the production and sale of flex fuel vehicles. Any reduction in the percentage of ethanol required to be added to gasoline or increase in the levels at which flex fuel vehicles are taxed in Brazil, as well as growth in the demand for natural gas and other fuels as an alternative to ethanol, lower gasoline prices or an increase in gasoline consumption (versus ethanol), may cause demand for ethanol to decline and affect our business. In addition, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply and demand for gasoline; therefore, a reduction in oil prices resulting in a decrease in gasoline prices and an increase in gasoline consumption (versus ethanol), may have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Government policies and regulations affecting the agricultural and fuel sectors and related industries could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Agricultural production and trade flows are significantly affected by Brazilian federal, state and municipal, as well as foreign, government policies and regulations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, may influence industry profitability, the planting of certain crops versus others, the uses of agricultural resources, the location and size of crop production, the trading levels for unprocessed versus processed commodities, and the volume and types of imports and exports. Future government policies in Brazil and elsewhere may adversely affect the supply, and demand for, and prices of, our products or restrict our ability to do business in our existing and target markets, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Sugar prices, like the prices of many other staple goods in Brazil, were historically subject to controls imposed by the Brazilian government. Sugar prices in Brazil have not been subject to price controls since 1997. However, additional measures may be imposed in the future. In addition, our operations are currently concentrated in the state of São Paulo. Any changes affecting governmental policies and regulations regarding ethanol, sugar or sugarcane in the state of São Paulo (at the federal, state or municipal level) may adversely affect our business and financial performance. In addition, petroleum and petroleum products have historically been subject to price controls in Brazil. Currently there is no legislation or regulation in force giving the Brazilian government the power to set prices for petroleum, petroleum products, ethanol or Vehicular Natural Gas. However, given that Petrobras, the only supplier of oil-based fuels in Brazil, is a government-controlled company, prices of petroleum and petroleum products are subject to government influence, resulting in potential inconsistencies between international prices and internal oil derivative prices that affect our business and our financial results, which are not linked to international prices. We may not be successful in reducing operating costs and increasing operating efficiencies. As part of our strategy, we continue to seek to reduce operating costs and increase operating efficiencies to improve our future financial performance. We may not be able to achieve the cost savings that we expect to achieve, depending on several factors, including the increase in the price of the necessary resources to our economic activity. 15 Table of Contents Given the highly competitive markets in which we operate, with prices often being defined from the global offering, it is highly likely that we will not pass on increases in material costs in our selling price, adversely affecting our financial performance. Government laws and regulations governing the burning of sugarcane could have a material adverse impact on our business or financial performance. The state of São Paulo and some local governments have established laws and regulations that limit our ability to burn sugarcane or that reduce and/or entirely prohibit the burning of sugarcane. The costs to comply with existing or new laws or regulations are likely to increase and raise the cost of production, and, as a result, our ability to operate our own mills and harvest our sugarcane crops may be adversely affected. In addition to restrictions that limit sugarcane burning and other environmental restrictions, we are required to preserve a percentage of our rural properties (sugarcane fields and other facilities), in order to contribute to biodiversity preservation and ecologic rehabilitation. For rural areas located in the state of São Paulo, 20% of the property must be preserved as unused. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations may subject us to legal and administrative actions. These actions can result in administrative or criminal penalties, including, but not limited to, embargo, shutdowns, a requirement to pay fines, which may range from R$50 to R$50 million and can be doubled or tripled in case of recidivism, an obligation to make capital and other expenditures or an obligation to materially change or cease some operations. In addition, we may be subject to civil liabilities, which include the obligation to redress eventual damages caused to environment and public health. The demonstration of the cause-effect relationship between the damage caused and action or omission is sufficient to trigger the obligation to redress environmental damage. Adverse weather conditions may reduce the volume and sucrose content of sugarcane that we can cultivate and purchase in a given harvest, and we are affected by seasonality of the sugarcane growing cycle. Our sugar production depends on the volume and sucrose content of the sugarcane that we cultivate or that is supplied to us by growers located in the vicinity of our mills. Crop yields and sucrose content depend primarily on weather conditions such as rainfall and temperature, which vary and may be influenced by global climate change. Weather conditions have historically caused volatility in the ethanol and sugar industries and, consequently, in our results of operations by causing crop failures or reduced harvests. Flood, drought or frost, which may be influenced by global climate change, can adversely affect the supply and pricing of the agricultural commodities that we sell and use in our business. Future weather patterns may reduce the amount of sugar or sugarcane that we can recover in a given harvest or its sucrose content. In addition, our business is subject to seasonal trends based on the sugarcane growing cycle in the central-south region of Brazil. The annual sugarcane harvesting period in the central-south region of Brazil begins in April/May and ends in November/December. This creates fluctuations in our inventory, usually peaking in December to cover sales between crop harvests (i.e., December through April), and a degree of seasonality in our gross profit, with ethanol and sugar sales significantly lower in the quarter ended on December 31. Seasonality and any reduction in the volumes of sugar recovered could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We may be adversely affected by a shortage of sugarcane or by high sugarcane costs. Sugarcane is the principal raw material used by Raízen Energia (a company which we jointly control with Shell) for the production of ethanol and sugar. As of December 31, 2014, sugarcane purchased from suppliers accounted for 48.9% of our total sugarcane crushed. Historically, approximately 80% of the sugarcane purchased by us has been under medium- and long-term contracts with sugarcane growers, 5% on a spot basis and the remaining 15% from sugarcane growers with whom we have long-term relationships but no contractual arrangements. We generally enter into medium- and long-term supply contracts for periods varying from three and one-half to seven years. As of December 31, 2014, we also leased approximately 541,000 hectares to produce our own sugarcane in contracts with an average term of fourteen years. Any shortage in sugarcane supply or increase in sugarcane prices in the near future, including as a result of the termination of supply contracts or lease agreements representing a material reduction in the sugarcane available to us for processing or increase in sugarcane prices may adversely affect our business and financial performance. 16 Table of Contents Social movements may affect the use of our agricultural properties or cause damage to them. Social movements such as the Landless Rural Workers’ Movement (Movimento dos Trabalhadores Rurais Sem Terra) and the Pastoral Land Commission (Comissão Pastoral da Terra) are active in Brazil and advocate land reform and property redistribution by the Brazilian Government. Invasion and occupation of agricultural land by large numbers of people is a common practice among the members of such movements, and in certain regions, including those where we currently invest, remedies such as police protection or eviction procedures are inadequate or non-existent. As a result, we cannot assure you that our agricultural properties will not be subject to invasion or occupation by any of such social movements. Any invasion or occupation may materially impair the use of our lands and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Alternative sweeteners have negatively affected demand for our sugar products in Brazil and other countries. We believe that the use of alternative sweeteners, especially artificial alternative sweeteners such as aspartame, saccharine and HFCS, has adversely affected the growth of the overall demand for sugar in Brazil and the rest of the world. Soft drink bottlers in many countries have switched from sugar to, or increased consumption of, alternative sweeteners. In addition, the use of alternative sweeteners by sugar consumers, including soft drink bottlers, may also reduce the demand for sugar in Brazil. A substantial decrease in sugar consumption, or the increased use of alternative or artificial sweeteners, would decrease demand for our sugar products and could result in lower growth in our net sales and overall financial performance. Raízen Energia’s sugar and ethanol products are sold to a small number of customers which may be able to exercise significant bargaining power concerning pricing and other sale terms. A substantial portion of Raízen Energia’s sugar and ethanol production is sold to a small number of customers that acquire large portions of our production and thus may be able to exercise significant bargaining power concerning pricing and other sale terms. In addition, intensive competition in the ethanol and sugar industries further increases the bargaining power of customers. Raízen Energia’s export sales are subject to a broad range of risks associated with international operations. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, our net sales from exports represented 56% of our total net sales, while in the year ended December 31, 2013, our net sales from exports represented 59% of our total net sales. In the financial year ended December 31, 2014, our net sales from sugar exports were R$3,050.5 million, representing 33% of our total net sales for the period. In the year ended December 31, 2013, our net sales from exports were R$3,436.5 million, representing 37% of our total net sales for the period. Further, in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, our net sales from exports of ethanol were R$832.5 million, representing 9% of our total net sales for that period and in the year ended December 31, 2013, our net sales from ethanol exports were R$981.8 million, representing 11% of total net sales for that period. We expect to expand our ethanol exports in the future. Expansion of ethanol exports depends on factors beyond our control, including liberalization of existing trade barriers and the establishment of distribution systems for hydrous ethanol in countries outside of Brazil. Our future financial performance will depend, to a significant extent, on economic, political and social conditions in our main export markets. Most ethanol and/or sugar producing countries, including the United States and member countries of the European Union, protect local producers from foreign competition by establishing government policies and regulations that affect ethanol and sugar production, including quotas, import and export restrictions, subsidies, tariffs and duties. As a result of these policies, domestic ethanol and sugar prices vary greatly in individual countries. We have limited or no access to these large markets as a result of trade barriers. If these protectionist policies continue, we may not be able to expand our export activities at the rate we currently expect, or at all, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Also, if new trade barriers are established in our key export markets, we may face difficulties in reallocating our products to other markets on favorable terms, and our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Fire and other disasters could affect our agricultural and manufacturing properties, which would adversely affect our production volumes and, consequently, financial performance. Our operations will be subject to risks affecting our agricultural properties and facilities, including fire potentially destroying some or our entire yield and facilities. In addition, our operations are subject to hazards associated with the manufacture of inflammable products and transportation of feed stocks and inflammable products. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to provide full protection against these types of casualties. Disease and pestilence may strike our crops which may result in destruction of a significant portion of our harvest. Crop disease and pestilence can occur from time to time and have a devastating effect on our crops, potentially rendering useless or unusable all or a substantial portion of affected harvests. Even when only a portion of the crop is damaged, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected because we may have incurred a substantial portion of the production cost for the related harvest. The cost of treatment of crop disease tends to be high. Any serious incidents of crop disease or pestilence, and related costs, may adversely affect our production levels and, as a result, our net sales and overall financial performance. Anticompetitive practices in the fuel and lubricants distribution market may distort market prices. In the last few years, anticompetitive practices have been one of the main problems affecting fuel distributors in Brazil. Generally these practices have involved a combination of tax evasion and fuel adulteration, such as the dilution of gasoline by mixing solvents or adding anhydrous ethanol in an amount greater than the 25% permitted by applicable law (the overall taxation of anhydrous ethanol is lower than hydrated ethanol and gasoline). Taxes constitute a significant portion of the cost of fuels sold in Brazil. For this reason, tax evasion on the part of some fuel distributors has been prevalent, allowing them to lower the prices they charge. These practices have enabled certain distributors to supply large quantities of fuel products at prices lower than those offered by the major distributors, including us, which has resulted in a considerable increase in the sales volumes of the distributors who have adopted these practices. The final prices for fuels are calculated based on the taxes levied on their purchase and sale, among others factors. As a result, anticompetitive practices as such tax evasion may affect our sales volume, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. If such practices become more prevalent, it could lead to lower prices or reduced margins for the products we sell, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Petrobras is our principal supplier of our base oils and of our fuel distribution and natural gas businesses. Significant disruption to our fuels and lubricant sales may occur, in the event of an interruption of supply from Petrobras. Any interruption would immediately affect our ability to provide fuel and lubricant products to our customers. If we are not able to obtain an adequate supply of fuel and base oil products from Petrobras under acceptable terms, we may seek to meet our demands through purchases on the international market. The cost of fuel and base oil products on the international market may be more expensive than the price we obtain through Petrobras. The production of lubricants and the storage and transportation of fuel products, lubricant products are inherently hazardous. The complex manufacturing operations we perform at our Lubricants Oil Blending Plant, or “LOBP”, involve a variety of safety and other operating risks, including the handling, production, storage and transportation of toxic materials. These risks could result in personal injury and death, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage. A material accident at one of our plants, service stations or storage facilities could force us to suspend our operations and result in significant remediation costs and lost revenue. In addition, insurance proceeds, if available, may not be received on a timely basis and may be insufficient to cover all losses, including lost profit. Equipment breakdowns, natural disasters, and delays in obtaining supplies or required replacement parts or equipment could also materially adversely affect our manufacturing operations and consequently our results of operations. We may not be able to maintain rights to use blending formulae and brands supplied by ExxonMobil. We, through our subsidiary Cosan Lubrificantes e Especialidades, or “CLE”, are the exclusive manufacturer and distributor of lubricant products in Brazil based on formulae provided to us by ExxonMobil under the Master Lubricants Agreement, which expires on December 1, 2018. The termination or failure to renew the Master Lubricants Agreement, or the failure by ExxonMobil to adequately maintain and protect its intellectual property 18 Table of Contents rights, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or could require significant unplanned investments by us if we are forced to develop or acquire alternative technology. In the future, it may be necessary or desirable to obtain other third-party technology licenses relating to one or more of our products or relating to current or future technologies to enhance our product offerings. However, we may not be able to obtain licensing rights to the needed technology or components on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our subsidiary’s port concession is subject to expiration, limitation on renewal, early termination by the granting authority and other risks and uncertainties. We own and operate a sugar-loading terminal at the Port of Santos in the state of São Paulo through our subsidiary Rumo Logística Operadora Multimodal S.A., or “Rumo Logística” or “Rumo.” This port terminal is a result of the association of two previous terminals, Cosan Operadora Portuária S.A., or “Cosan Portuária”, and Teaçú Armazéns Gerais S.A., or Teaçu (previously owned by Nova América). We are required to obtain a series of authorizations and licenses from public bodies or entities in order to operate our public ports, which authorizations may be subject to fixed expiration dates or periodic review or renewal. While we anticipate that renewals will be given as and when sought, there is no assurance that such renewals will be granted as a matter of course and there can be no assurance that new conditions will not be imposed in connection with such renewals. Furthermore, if we no longer comply with the conditions specified under these licenses and authorizations, they may be revoked. In addition, the port agreements and the applicable legislation to our port concessions establish a set of prerogatives to the granting authority. Thus, there are some specific contractual provisions that enable, among other things, the unilateral amendment and termination of the contract by the granting authority, as well as the imposition of fines and penalties on the concessionaire. Pursuant to the port concession agreement with the state of São Paulo’s Port Authority (Companhia de Docas do Estado de São Paulo – CODESP), or CODESP, Cosan Portuária’s concession to operate this terminal will expire on 2016, and it may be renewed for an additional 20 years if Cosan Portuária meets its obligations under the port concession agreement. We are already discussing with the CODESP the renewal of this concession, but we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to renew the concession at all or on favorable terms. The South Terminal concession (formerly Teaçu) was initially scheduled to expire in 2016, but has been extended until 2036. Among other situations, port concessions may be unilaterally terminated by the granting authority prior to that time upon: · expropriation of the port concession in the public interest; · default by Rumo Logística in the performance of its obligations under the port concession agreement, including the payment of concession fees or failure to comply with other legal and regulatory obligations; · Rumo Logística’s failure to comply with determinations by the granting authority; or · bankruptcy or dissolution of Rumo Logística. Termination of the port concession agreement may adversely impact our transportation costs and the turn-around time for the export of our products as well as our revenues from service agreements related to our port facilities. We are subject to certain environmental inspection and infraction notices concerning the operational conditions of the sugar-loading terminal at the Port of Santos. Failure to adequately address these notices may subject us to legal and administrative actions. In addition, the assets considered essential to the concession will revert to the granting authority upon expiration. At termination of the concession, it is possible that the investments made in those assets will have not been entirely amortized or depreciated. In this case, the granting authority and Rumo Logística will discuss the value of any indemnification for such investments. As the final decision on this amount will be issued solely by the granting authority, the financial condition of Rumo Logística may be negatively impacted if indemnification eventually approved is not sufficient to account for the investments made. We are unable to estimate the impacts of new regulations applicable to port operations in Brazil. Until December 6, 2012, port operations in Brazil were governed by Federal Law No. 8,630, dated February 25, 1993 (the “Ports Modernization Law”), which provided the legal framework applicable to the exploration of the organized ports and the ports installations in Brazil. In view of the need to improve the applicable legislation, the 19 Table of Contents Brazilian Federal Government implemented Law 12,815/2013 that expressly revoked the Ports Modernization Law and established a new legal framework with respect to port operations in Brazil. As a result, the public ports are governed by Law 12,815/2013 and by specific complementing regulations that are yet to be published. According to the provisions of Law 12,815/2013, there are no more distinctions between third party and own cargo handled at private port terminals. Going forward, the activities performed at the private terminals shall be the same as those carried out at the public terminals. As a result, public ports are expected to face higher competition. Accordingly, it is possible that Rumo Logística may not be able to reach the minimum cargo movement provided for in its port concession agreements, which may subject it to fines and, upon repeated violations, to the early termination of the concession. Even though Law 12,815/2013 does not provide for the adjustments of the terms of any concession agreement currently in place, it is possible that the regulations mentioned above make such provision. New regulations applicable to port operations in Brazil that might cause an adjustment of the terms in our concession agreements, may adversely affect our results of operations. The expansion of our business through acquisitions and strategic alliances creates risks that may reduce the benefits we anticipate from these transactions. We have grown substantially through acquisitions. We plan to continue to acquire, from time to time, other ethanol or sugar producers or facilities in Brazil or elsewhere that complement or expand our sugar and ethanol existing operations. Moreover, we plan to acquire and build, from time to time, fuel terminals, lubricant production assets, retail distribution stations and other assets that complement and expand our fuel and lubricants existing operations and also intend to expand our network of service stations through increased branding. We also may enter into strategic alliances to increase our competitiveness. However, our management is unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisitions or strategic alliances will occur, or the likelihood of any particular transaction being completed on favorable terms and conditions. Our ability to continue to expand our business through acquisitions or alliances depends on many factors, including our ability to identify acquisitions or access capital markets on acceptable terms. Even if we are able to identify acquisition targets and obtain the necessary financing to make these acquisitions, we could financially overextend ourselves, especially if an acquisition is followed by a period of lower than projected ethanol and sugar prices. Acquisitions, especially involving sizeable enterprises, may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing business and difficulties in integrating operations and personnel. Any failure by us to integrate new businesses or manage any new alliances successfully could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Some of our major competitors may be pursuing growth through acquisitions and alliances, which may reduce the likelihood that we will be successful in completing acquisitions and alliances. In addition, any major acquisition we consider may be subject to antitrust and other regulatory approvals. We may not be successful in obtaining required approvals on a timely basis or at all. Acquisitions also pose the risk that we may be exposed to successor liability relating to prior actions involving an acquired company, or contingent liabilities incurred before the acquisition. Due diligence conducted in connection with an acquisition, and any contractual guarantees or indemnities that we receive from sellers of acquired companies, may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, actual liabilities. A material liability associated with an acquisition, such as labor- or environmental-related liabilities, could adversely affect our reputation and financial performance and reduce the benefits of the acquisition. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Principal Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations—Acquisitions, Partnerships and Corporate Restructurings.” We have also recently entered into agreements to acquire additional companies See “