Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the information contained in this Annual Report, particularly the risks described below, as well as in our financial statements and accompanying notes and in our other periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC" or the "Commission"). Our prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and stock price could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The market price of our Common Stock may decrease due to any of these risks or other factors, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are those that we currently believe may materially affect us. General Risks The following risks are associated generally with our business and our ownership, control, management and other matters. We depend heavily on John P. Rochon, and we may be unable to replace Mr. Rochon if we lose his services. We are dependent upon Mr. Rochon, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors. The loss or unavailability of Mr. Rochon could have a material adverse effect on our prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining additional personnel. The loss of the services of Mr. Rochon, or any key employees we employ from time to time, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Each of our subsidiaries is dependent on key personnel. HCG is dependent on several employees, especially Paula Mackarey, who is the Publisher and President of Happenings Magazine and manages the day-to-day operations of the business. HCG is dependent on Ms. Mackarey's knowledge of the business and her relationships with business and community leaders who advertise in Happenings Magazine. The loss or unavailability of Ms. Mackarey could have a material adverse effect on HCG's prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. TLC is dependent on several key employees, especially Tamala Longaberger, who is the Chief Executive Officer of TLC. TLC is dependent on her knowledge of the business and her relationships with the independent sales associates at TLC, as well as business and community leaders. The loss or unavailability of Ms. Longaberger could have a material adverse impact on TLC's prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that HCG or TLC will be successful in attracting and retaining additional personnel. The loss of the services of Ms. Mackarey or Ms. Longaberger, or the failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on both HCG's and TLC's prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition 8 Table of Contents and results of operations, and any material adverse effect on our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on us or our stock price. A majority of our directors are not "independent" and several of our directors and officers have other business interests. A majority of our directors are not "independent" under any independence standard available to us. This lack of "independence" may interfere with our directors' judgment in carrying out their responsibilities as directors. We currently are not listed on a national securities exchange or an inter-dealer quotation system that requires a majority of our directors to be independent. However, for the determinations of independence we use the definition of independence applied by NASDAQ. Several of our directors have other business interests, including Mr. Rochon who controls Richmont Holdings, Inc. ("Richmont Holdings"), a private investment and business management company. Those other interests may come into conflict with our interests and the interests of our shareholders. Mr. Rochon, as do several of our other directors, serves on the board of directors of several companies and, as a result of his business experience, may be asked to serve on the boards of other companies. We may compete with these other business interests for such director's time and efforts. We have not adopted a policy for resolving such conflicts of interests. The beneficial ownership of a significant percentage of our Common Stock gives John Rochon effective control of us, and limits the influence of other shareholders on important policy and management issues. Mr. Rochon, as our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors, and through his control of Rochon Capital, the holder of approximately 70% of our outstanding Common Stock, controls the Company and important matters relating to us. As a result of his positions and his control of our Common Stock, Mr. Rochon controls the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of our directors, our business strategy and our day-to-day operations. In addition, Mr. Rochon's ownership of our Common Stock and control of the Company could discourage the acquisition of our Common Stock by potential investors and could have an anti-takeover effect, preventing a change in control of the Company and possibly depressing the trading price of our Common Stock. There can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise with respect to Mr. Rochon's ownership and control of the Company or that any conflicts will be resolved in a manner favorable to the other shareholders of the Company. There currently is no liquid trading market for our Common Stock and we cannot assure investors that one will ever develop or be sustained. To date there has been a limited trading market for our Common Stock. We cannot predict how liquid the market for our Common Stock may become. Our Common Stock trades on the OTC Markets OTCQB. In the future, we may apply for listing of our Common Stock on the NYSE MKT, The Nasdaq Stock Market or another national securities exchange, if we can satisfy the initial listing standards for such exchanges and believe such a listing would be beneficial to us and our shareholders. We currently do not satisfy the initial listing standards of any such exchange, and we cannot assure investors that we will be able to satisfy such listing standards, or that our Common Stock will be accepted for listing on any such exchange. Should we fail to satisfy the initial listing standards of such exchanges, or if our Common Stock is otherwise rejected for listing and remains listed on the OTC Markets OTCQB, the trading price of our Common Stock could be subject to increased volatility and the trading market for our Common Stock may be less liquid. For companies whose securities are traded in the OTC Markets OTCQB, it is generally more difficult to obtain accurate quotations, to obtain coverage for significant news events (because major 9 Table of Contents wire services generally do not publish press releases about such companies) and to obtain needed capital. Our Common Stock currently is deemed a "penny stock," which makes it more difficult for our investors to sell their shares. Our Common Stock is subject to the "penny stock" rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). The penny stock rules generally apply to companies whose common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange and trades at less than $5.00 per share, other than companies that have had average revenue of at least $6,000,000 for the last three years or that have a tangible net worth of at least $5,000,000 (or at least $2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). These rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade penny stock to persons other than "established customers" complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade penny stocks because of the requirements of the penny stock rules, and as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in such securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market, if any, for our securities. If our securities are subject to the penny stock rules, investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our securities. We expect that the price of our Common Stock will fluctuate substantially. The market price of our Common Stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to the following factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors may include: •the introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; •quarterly variations in our or our competitor's results of operations; •the acquisition or divestiture of businesses, products, assets or technology; •disputes, litigation or other developments with respect to intellectual property rights or other potential legal actions; •sales of large blocks of our Common Stock, including sales by Rochon Capital, any executive officers or directors appointed in the future, or by other significant shareholders; •changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; •market rumors; and •general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. Market price fluctuations may negatively affect the ability of investors to sell our shares at consistent prices. Sales of our Common Stock under Rule 144 could impact the price of our Common Stock. In general, under Rule 144 ("Rule 144"), as promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), persons holding restricted securities in an SEC reporting company, including affiliates, must hold their shares for a period of at least six months, may not sell more than 1% of the total issued and outstanding shares in any 90-day period and must resell the shares in an 10 Table of Contents unsolicited brokerage transaction at the market price. Whenever a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock become available for resale under Rule 144, the market price for our Common Stock will likely be impacted. Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Companies in certain industries are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation due to the high volatility of their stock prices. Our Common Stock has experienced substantial price volatility in the past. This may be a result of, among other things, variations in our results of operations and announcements by us and our competitors, as well as general economic conditions, and our stock price may continue to experience substantial volatility. Accordingly, we may in the future be the target of securities litigation. Any securities litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert the attention and resources of our management. We may, in the future, issue additional securities, which would reduce investors' ownership percentage in our outstanding securities and may dilute our share value. If future operations or acquisitions are financed through issuing equity securities, shareholders could experience significant dilution. In addition, securities issued in connection with future financing activities or potential acquisitions may have rights and preferences senior to the rights and preferences of our Common Stock. The issuance of shares of our Common Stock upon the exercise of options to purchase our securities, which we may grant in the future, may result in dilution to our shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation currently authorize us to issue 490,000,000 shares of Common Stock. We have agreed to issue to Rochon Capital an additional 504,813,514 shares of our Common Stock. In order to effectuate such issuance, we have agreed to file an amendment to our certificate of incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of our Common Stock to five billion (5,000,000,000). Following the issuance of the stock the number of outstanding shares of our Common Stock will increase to approximately one billion, with approximately four billion shares of our Common Stock available for issuance. We have issued two Convertible Notes which may be converted into as many as 96,500,000 shares of our Common Stock. If the Company issues shares of our Common Stock to satisfy either or both of these Convertible Notes, substantial dilution may result. The future issuance of our Common Stock may result in substantial dilution in the percentage of our Common Stock held by our then existing shareholders. We may value any Common Stock issued in the future on an arbitrary basis, including for services or acquisitions or other corporate actions that may have the effect of diluting the value of the shares held by our shareholders, and might have an adverse effect on any trading market for our Common Stock. Additionally, we are authorized to issue 10,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. No shares of our preferred stock are outstanding. Our Board of Directors may designate at its discretion the rights, terms and preferences, including conversion and voting preferences, of our preferred stock without notice to our shareholders. Complying with federal securities laws as a publicly traded company is expensive. Any deficiencies in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our financial condition, ability to issue our shares in acquisitions and the trading price of our Common Stock. We file periodic reports containing our financial statements within the time periods following the completion of our quarterly and annual periods. We may experience difficulty in meeting the SEC's reporting requirements. Any failure by us to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC could harm our reputation and reduce the trading price of our Common Stock and cause sanctions or other actions to be taken by the SEC. Such failure to file our periodic reports with the SEC could cause additional harm, such as a default under an indenture or loan covenant that we may enter into from time to time, or reputational damage. We will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses related to compliance with applicable securities laws. 11 Table of Contents We may identify deficiencies which would have to be remediated to satisfy the SEC's rules for certification of our internal controls over financial reporting. As a consequence, we may have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the SEC material weaknesses in our system of internal controls. The existence of a material weakness would preclude management from concluding that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. In addition, disclosures of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the trading price of our Common Stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or in our internal control over financial reporting, it may negatively impact our business activities, cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We have not paid and do not anticipate paying any dividends on our Common Stock. We have not paid any dividends on our Common Stock to date and it is not anticipated that any dividends will be paid to holders of our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. While our future dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of our businesses, it is currently anticipated that any earnings will be retained to finance our future expansion and for the implementation of our business strategy. Our shareholders will not realize a return on their investment in the Company unless and until they sell shares after the trading price of our Common Stock appreciates from the price at which a shareholder purchased shares of our Common Stock. As an investor, you should consider that a lack of a dividend can further affect the market value of our Common Stock and could significantly affect the value of any investment in our Company. The issuance of our blank check preferred stock could harm our stock price or impact a possible change in control. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine its rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. If we issue any of these shares of preferred stock in the future, the rights of holders of our Common Stock may be negatively affected. If we were to issue shares of preferred stock, a change in control of our Company could be delayed, deferred or prevented. Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets is possible, depending upon future operating results and the value of our Common Stock. We will test our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment during the fourth quarter of the current fiscal year and in future fiscal years, and on an interim basis, if indicators of impairment exist. Factors which influence the evaluation of impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets include the price of our Common Stock and expected future operating results. If the carrying value of a reporting unit or an intangible asset is no longer deemed to be recoverable, we potentially could incur material impairment charges. Although we believe these charges would be non-cash in nature and would not affect the Company's operations or cash flow, these charges would adversely affect shareholders' equity and reported results of operations in the period charged. Risks Associated With Possible Acquisitions and Other Strategic Transactions If we cannot successfully implement our acquisitions strategy, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and stock price. Our current primary growth strategy is the acquisition of, or entering into strategic transactions involving direct-selling companies, and potentially companies engaged in businesses related to direct-selling. We will review acquisition prospects that meet our strategic goals of investing in these companies that increase the size and geographic scope of our operations or otherwise offer us growth 12 Table of Contents and operating efficiency opportunities. Our failure to successfully complete the integration of any acquired business could have an adverse effect on our prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions or strategic transactions on acceptable terms. We are evaluating acquisition opportunities available to us that fit our acquisition strategy. We anticipate pursuing one or more of these opportunities, we may pursue one or more of these opportunities simultaneously and we may pursue one or more of these opportunities in the very near future. Acquisitions and other strategic transactions involve many risks, including: •the difficulty of integrating acquired operations and personnel with our existing operations and personnel; •the difficulty of developing and marketing new products and services; •the diversion of our management's attention as a result of evaluating, negotiating and integrating acquisitions; •our exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and •the loss of key employees of an acquired operation. In addition, an acquisition or other strategic transaction could adversely impact our cash flows and/or operating results, and dilute shareholder interests, for a number of reasons, including: •interest costs and debt service requirements for any debt incurred in connection with an acquisition or new business venture; •any issuance of securities in connection with an acquisition or other strategic transaction which dilutes the current holders of our Common Stock; •transaction expenses incurred in connection with pursuing such acquisitions and strategic transactions; and •unanticipated costs associated with making the acquisition and operating the acquired business or entering into the strategic transaction. Although Mr. Rochon has experience in executing and implementing such acquisitions and strategic transactions, as a company, these ventures may not be successful, and we may not succeed in the future. The risks associated with acquisitions and other strategic transactions could have a material adverse impact on, among other things, our prospects, business activities, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Risks Associated With TLC and Direct-Selling Companies Generally The following factors describe generally the risks associated with the business of direct-selling companies, including TLC and those which we intend to acquire or with which we intend to enter into strategic transactions. TLC experiences a high level of competition in the direct-selling industry for representatives. In the direct-selling industry, sales are made to the ultimate consumer principally through independent representatives referred to by many different names—distributors, associates and team members are examples; we use the term "representatives" to cover all such persons. Generally, as is the case with TLC, there is a high rate of turnover among a direct-selling company's representatives. Because the direct-selling industry generally is not particularly capital intensive or otherwise subject to high barriers to entry, it is relatively easy for new competitors to emerge who will compete for a direct-selling company's representatives. The fact that representatives can easily enter and exit direct- 13 Table of Contents selling programs contributes to the level of competition that direct-selling companies face to retain representatives. A representative can generally enter or exit a direct-selling company with relative ease at any time without facing a significant investment or loss of capital because of the low upfront financial cost to become a direct-seller and the lack of any requirement to work a specified number of hours or have special training. TLC's ability to remain competitive and maintain and expand its business depends, in significant part, on its success in recruiting, retaining, and incentivizing representatives through an appropriate compensation plan, the maintenance of an attractive product portfolio and other incentives, and innovating the direct-selling model. We cannot ensure that the strategies for soliciting and retaining the representatives of TLC or any direct-selling company we acquire will be successful, and if they are not, our prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and stock price could be harmed. TLC generally conducts business in one channel. The business of TLC generally is conducted in one channel. Products and services of direct-selling companies are sold to retail consumers. Spending by retail consumers is affected by a number of factors, including general economic conditions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, gasoline prices and consumer confidence, all of which are beyond TLC's control. TLC may face economic challenges because customers may continue to have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit and falling home prices, among other things. Consumer purchasing habits, including reducing purchases of a direct-selling company's products, or reducing purchases from representatives or buying products in channels other than direct-selling, such as retail, could reduce a direct-selling company's sales, impact its ability to execute its business strategy or have a material adverse effect on its prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations. If any government bans or severely restricts TLC's model, its prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. TLC's success depends, in part, on its key personnel. TLC's success, as is the case with other direct-selling companies depends, in part, on its ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified personnel, including representatives. In some cases, direct-selling companies compete to attract and retain these individuals, particularly representatives. TLC may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel, which could adversely affect its prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. An increase in the amount of commissions and incentives paid to representatives could adversely impact TLC's profitability. The payment of commissions and incentives to representatives, including bonuses and prizes, is a significant expense for TLC. Furthermore, a decrease in, or insufficiency of, commissions and incentives may make it difficult for TLC to attract and retain representatives or cause it to lose some of its existing representatives. TLC generally cannot exert the same level of influence or control over its representatives as it can over its employees. Because TLC generally engages representatives to conduct its sales, it is not in a position to directly provide the same direction, motivation and oversight as a company would if its representatives were employees. As a result, there can be no assurance that TLC's representatives will participate in its marketing strategies or plans, accept its introduction of new products, or comply with its representative policies and procedures, as applicable. 14 Table of Contents TLC and other direct-selling companies are subject to numerous laws. The direct-selling industry is subject to a number of federal and state regulations administered by the Federal Trade Commission and various state agencies in the United States, as well as regulations regarding direct-selling activities in foreign markets. Laws specifically applicable to direct-selling companies generally are directed at preventing deceptive or misleading marketing and sales practices, and include laws often referred to as "pyramid" or "chain sales" scheme laws. These "anti-pyramid" laws are focused on ensuring that product sales ultimately are made to end consumers and that advancement within a sales organization is based on sales of products and services rather than investments in the organization, recruiting other participants, or other non-retail sales-related criteria. The regulatory requirements concerning direct-selling programs do not include "bright line" rules, involve a high level of subjectivity, are inherently fact-based and are subject to judicial interpretation. TLC is subject to the risk that these laws or regulations or the enforcement or interpretation of these laws and regulations by governmental agencies or courts can change. Any direct-selling company we acquire in the future, as well as TLC, could be found not to be in compliance with current or newly adopted laws or regulations in one or more markets, which could prevent us from conducting our business in these markets and harm our prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. The implementation of such regulations may be influenced by public attention directed toward a direct-selling company, its products or its direct-selling program, such that extensive adverse publicity could result in increased regulatory scrutiny. TLC is also subject to the adoption, interpretation and enforcement by governmental agencies in the United States of other laws, rules, regulations or policies, including any changes thereto, such as restrictions on trade, import and export license requirements, privacy and data protection laws, advertising laws, franchise and business opportunity laws and laws addressing federal, state and local taxes, which may require adjustment of such company's operations and systems in certain markets. If a direct-selling company we acquire were to be unable to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements, our reputation, prospects, business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or stock price may be adversely affected. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome or the impact that pending or future legislative and regulatory changes may have on such a company or on us in the future. With respect to direct-selling companies that sell into foreign countries, those companies must create policies and procedures for their representatives that comply with the different legal requirements of each country in which they do business. In addition, a direct-selling company may have difficulty enforcing its policies and procedures because of the large number of representatives and other factors. The failure of the TLC's representatives to comply with laws, regulations and court decisions creates potential exposure for regulatory action or lawsuits against us. Because the representatives that market and sell TLC's products and services are independent contractors, and not employees, TLC has limited control over their actions. In the United States, the direct-selling industry and regulatory authorities have generally relied on the implementation of a company's rules and policies governing its direct-sellers, designed to promote retail sales, protect consumers, prevent inappropriate activities and distinguish between legitimate direct-selling plans and unlawful pyramid schemes, to compel compliance with applicable laws. Direct-selling companies maintain formal compliance measures to identify specific complaints against their representatives and to remedy any violations through appropriate sanctions, including warnings, suspensions and, when necessary, terminations. Because of the significant number of representatives TLC has, it is not feasible for TLC to monitor the representatives' day-to-day business activities. TLC must maintain the "independent contractor" status of its representatives and, therefore, has limited control over their 15 Table of Contents business activities. As a result, TLC cannot insure that its representatives will comply with all applicable rules and regulations, domestically or globally. Violations by TLC's representatives of applicable law or of the direct-selling company's policies and procedures in dealing with customers could reflect negatively on a direct-selling company's prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations, including its business reputation, and subject it to fines and penalties. In addition, it is possible that a court could hold a direct-selling company civilly or criminally accountable based on vicarious liability because of the actions of its representatives. Adverse publicity associated with TLC's products, ingredients or network marketing program, or those of similar companies could harm its prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. The number of TLC's representatives and the results of its operations may be affected significantly by the public's perception of TLC and similar companies. This perception is dependent upon opinions concerning: •the safety and quality of the products, components and ingredients, as applicable; •the safety and quality of similar products, components and ingredients, as applicable, distributed by other companies' representatives; •the marketing program; and •the business of direct-selling generally. Adverse publicity concerning any actual or purported failure of TLC or its representatives to comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding product claims and advertising, good manufacturing practices, the regulation of its marketing program, the licensing of its products for sale in its target markets or other aspects of its business, whether or not resulting in enforcement actions or the imposition of penalties, could have an adverse effect on the goodwill of TLC and could negatively affect its ability to attract, motivate and retain representatives, which would negatively impact its ability to generate revenue. TLC may be impacted by economic and other conditions. TLC's growth can be subject to numerous factors, including the strengths and weaknesses of its individual markets, including, as applicable, international markets, which are or may be impacted by global economic conditions. A direct-selling company that has a broad-based geographic portfolio, and direct-selling companies generally, may not be able to withstand an economic downturn, recession, cost inflation, commodity cost pressures, economic or political instability, competitive or other market pressures in one or more regions in which the direct-selling company conducts business. TLC and direct-selling companies in general face significant competition. The business of direct-selling is highly competitive. Many of TLC's competitors may have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and sales resources, greater name recognition, larger established customer bases and better-developed distribution channels than TLC. Such competitors may be able to develop products or services that are comparable or superior to those offered by TLC, adapt more quickly than such acquired company does to new technologies, evolving industry trends and standards or customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than TLC does. 16 Table of Contents Direct-selling companies generally face competition from competing products, as well as from products sold to customers by other direct-selling companies and through the Internet, and products sold through the mass market and traditional retail channels. Direct-selling companies compete for representatives by providing a more competitive earnings opportunity than that offered by the competition. Representatives generally are attracted to a direct-seller by competitive earnings opportunities, often through what are known as "field incentives" in the direct-selling industry. Direct-selling companies, including TLC, and competitors to direct-selling companies, devote substantial effort to determining the effectiveness of such incentives so that they can implement incentives that are the most effective. Direct-selling companies may own, obtain or license intellectual property material to their business, and their ability to compete may be adversely affected by the loss of rights to use that intellectual property. The market for a direct-selling company's products may depend significantly upon the value associated with product innovations and a direct-seller's brand equity. Many direct-sellers own, obtain or license material patents and trademarks used in connection with the marketing and distribution of their products. Those companies must expend time and resources in developing their intellectual property and pursuing any infringers of that intellectual property. The laws of certain foreign countries may not protect a company's intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect a company's patents and trademarks may be substantial. Challenges by private parties to the direct-selling system could harm our business. Direct-selling companies have been subject to legal challenges regarding their method of operation or other elements of their business by private parties, including their own representatives, in individual lawsuits and through class actions. We can provide no assurance that we would not be harmed if any such actions were brought against either TLC or another direct-selling company we acquired. Direct-selling companies face product liability claims and incur damages and expenses, which could affect their prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. A direct-selling company may face financial liability from product liability claims if the use of its products results in significant loss or injury. A substantial product liability claim could exceed the amount of a direct-selling company's insurance coverage or could be excluded under the terms of an existing insurance policy, which could adversely affect a direct-selling company's prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. Direct-selling companies frequently rely on outside suppliers and manufacturers, and if those suppliers and manufactures fail to supply products in sufficient quantities and in a timely fashion, a direct-selling company's business could suffer. Many direct-selling companies use outside manufacturers to make all or part of their products. A direct-selling company's profit margins and timely product delivery may be dependent upon the ability of its outside suppliers and manufacturers to supply it with products in a timely and cost-efficient manner. A direct-selling company's ability to enter new markets and sustain satisfactory levels of sales in each market may depend on the ability of its outside suppliers and manufacturers to provide required levels of ingredients and products and to comply with all applicable regulations. Risks Associated with HCG and its Publishing and Advertising Business The following factors primarily are related to HCG's publishing and advertising business. As of the date of this Annual Report, HCG's business is our only current business that is generating revenue. Our prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and stock price 17 Table of Contents could be materially adversely affected by any or all of the following risks, or by other risks or uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed material that may adversely affect us in the future. HCG depends on one geographic market. HCG operates in and around the northeastern Pennsylvania area, and its advertisers and readers currently are concentrated in this one region. HCG's advertising revenues depend upon a variety of other factors specific to the community that it serves. Changes in those factors could negatively affect HCG's advertising revenues. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, the concentration of retail stores and other businesses and local economic conditions in general. HCG's business faces substantial competition for advertisers. HCG faces substantial competition for advertising revenues in its market from free and paid newspapers, magazines, websites, digital platforms and applications and other forms of media, direct marketing and digital advertising network exchanges. Competition for advertising generally is based on audience levels and demographics, price, service and advertising results. Competition has intensified as a result of both the continued development and fragmentation of digital media and adverse economic conditions. Competition from all of these media and services affects HCG's ability to attract and retain advertisers and consumers and to maintain or increase its advertising rates. Economic weakness and uncertainty in the United States and especially in the area of Pennsylvania in which HCG operates, and in key advertising categories, may adversely affect HCG's advertising revenues. Advertising spending, which drives a significant portion of HCG's revenues, is sensitive to economic conditions. National and local economic conditions, particularly in the northeastern Pennsylvania region where HCG operates, affect the levels of HCG's advertising revenues. Economic factors that may adversely affect advertising revenues include lower consumer and business spending, high unemployment, depressed home sales and other challenges affecting the economy. HCG's advertising revenues are particularly adversely affected if advertisers respond to weak and uneven economic conditions by reducing their budgets or shifting spending patterns or priorities, or if they are forced to consolidate or cease operations. Continuing weak and uncertain economic conditions and outlook would adversely affect HCG's level of advertising revenues and its prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. HCG's ability to generate advertising revenues is and will continue to be affected by financial market conditions, consumer confidence, advertiser challenges and changes in the national and sometimes international economy, as well as by regional economic conditions. Advertisers' budgets, the amounts of which are affected by broad economic trends, affect the magazine industry in general. HCG relies on outside vendors. To manage its business efficiently, HCG uses outside vendors where available and economical. HCG depends on outside printers to print Happenings Magazine and deliver it on time for distribution and mailing. If its current printers are unable to print the magazine, it could cause delay in publication and affect HCG's revenue. However, HCG's management believes there are numerous contract printing providers that can supply the monthly magazine with its current monthly number of copies and provide the other printing services required by HCG. 18 Table of Contents The increasing popularity of digital media and the shift in consumer habits and advertising expenditures from traditional to digital media may adversely affect HCG's print advertising revenues. Websites, applications for mobile devices, social networking tools and other digital platforms distributing news and other content continue to gain popularity. This migration to digital technologies among both providers and consumers of content is likely to continue with companies seeking greater efficiencies and consumers seeking more value, convenience and timeliness of digital technologies. As a result, print readers may decline, and advertising spending may continue to shift from traditional media forms to digital media. HCG expects that advertisers will continue to allocate increasing portions of their budgets to digital media, which may offer more measurable returns than traditional print media. This shift has intensified competition for advertising in traditional print media and has contributed to and is likely to continue to contribute to a decline in print advertising revenue. To remain competitive, HCG must be able to respond to and capitalize on changes in technology, services and standards and changes in consumer behavior, and capital investments may be required. Technological developments in the media industry continue to evolve rapidly. Advances in technology have led to an increasing number of methods for the delivery of content and have driven consumer demand and expectations in unanticipated directions. If HCG is unable to exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish its products and services from those of its competitors or adapt to new distribution methods that provide optimal user experiences, its prospects, business activities, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations, and our stock price, may be adversely affected. Technological developments and any changes HCG makes to its business model may require capital investments. HCG may be limited in its ability to invest funds and resources in digital products, services or opportunities, and HCG may incur costs of research and development in building and maintaining the necessary and continually evolving technology infrastructure. Some of HCG's existing competitors and new entrants may have greater operational, financial and other resources or may otherwise be better positioned to compete for opportunities and, as a result, its digital business may be less successful. Decreases in print circulation volume adversely affects HCG's advertising revenues. Advertising revenues are affected by readership levels of Happenings Magazine. Competition for readership generally is based upon format, content, quality, service, timeliness and price. HCG is facing increased competition from digital media formats and sources other than traditional magazines, and a growing preference among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their information other than from a magazine or newspaper. If these or other factors result in a decline in circulation volume, the rate and volume of advertising revenues for HCG's print magazine may be adversely affected. HCG also may incur increased spending on marketing designed to attract and retain readers or drive traffic to its digital products. HCG may not be able to protect intellectual property rights upon which its business relies, and if HCG loses intellectual property protection, its assets may lose value. HCG's business depends on its intellectual property, including its brand and content. HCG believes its proprietary trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to its continued success and its competitive position. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use HCG's content, services, technology and other intellectual property, and HCG cannot be certain that the steps it has taken and will take to protect its proprietary rights will prevent any misappropriation or confusion among consumers and merchants, or unauthorized use of these rights. Developments in technology have exacerbated the risk by making it easier to duplicate and disseminate content. 19 Table of Contents If HCG is unable to procure, protect and enforce its intellectual property rights, HCG may not realize the full value of its assets, and its business may suffer. If HCG must litigate to enforce its intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, such litigation may be costly and divert the attention of HCG's management. Legislative and regulatory developments may result in increased costs and lower advertising revenues from HCG's digital businesses. HCG's website is available worldwide and is subject to laws regulating the Internet both within and outside the United States. HCG may incur increased costs necessary to comply with existing and newly adopted laws and regulations or penalties for any failure to comply. Its digital business could be adversely affected, directly or indirectly, by existing or future laws and regulations relating to the use of consumer data in digital media. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 