ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Potential investors should carefully consider the material risks described below and all of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding whether to purchase any of our securities. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these risks if any of them actually occur. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and an investor may lose all or part of his investment. Some of these factors have affected our financial condition and operating results in the past or are currently affecting us. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS We are and will continue to be subject to rapidly declining average selling prices, which may harm our results of operations. Set-top boxes and networking products, as well as GPS tracking systems, such as those we offer are often subject to declines in average selling prices due to rapidly evolving technologies, industry standards and consumer preferences. These products are also subject to rapid technological changes which often cause product obsolescence. Companies within our industry are continuously developing new products with heightened performance and functionality. This puts pricing pressure on existing products and constantly threatens to make them, or causes them to be, obsolete. Our typical product’s life cycle is short, typically generating lower average selling prices as the cycle matures. If we fail to accurately anticipate the introduction of new technologies, we may possess significant amounts of obsolete inventory that can only be sold at substantially lower prices and profit margins than we anticipated. In addition, if we fail to accurately anticipate the introduction of new technologies, we may be unable to compete effectively due to our failure to offer products most demanded by the marketplace. If any of these failures occur, our sales, profit margins and profitability will be adversely affected. In addition, third party network systems operators and systems integrators expect suppliers, such as our Company, to cut their costs and lower the price of their products to lessen the negative impact on their own profit margins. As a result, we have previously reduced the price of some of our products and expect to continue to face market-driven downward pricing pressures in the future. Our results of operations will suffer if we are unable to offset any declines in the average selling prices of our products by developing new or enhanced products with higher selling prices or gross profit margins, increasing our sales volumes or reducing our production costs. If we do not correctly forecast demand for our products, we could have costly excess production or inventories and we may not be able to secure sufficient or cost effective quantities of our products or production materials and our revenues, cost of revenues and financial condition could be adversely affected. The demand for our products depends on many factors, including pricing and inventory levels, and is difficult to forecast due in part to variations in economic conditions, changes in consumer and business preferences, relatively short product life cycles, changes in competition, seasonality and reliance on key third party carriers. It is particularly difficult to forecast demand by individual product. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand, the timing and disclosure of new product releases or the timing of key sales orders could result in costly excess production or inventories or the inability to secure sufficient, cost-effective quantities of our products or production materials. These inventory risks are particularly acute during end product transitions in which a new generation of set-top boxes is being deployed and inventory of older generation set-top boxes is at a higher risk of obsolescence. Furthermore, because of the competitive nature of the set-top box business and the short-term nature of our purchase orders, we could in the future be required to reduce the average selling-prices of our set-top boxes, which in turn would adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. This could adversely impact our revenues, cost of revenues and financial condition. We depend on sales of set-top boxes for a substantial portion of our revenue, and if sales of our set-top boxes decline or we are not able to penetrate new markets for set-up boxes, our business and financial position will suffer. The substantial portion of our revenues currently consists primarily of sales of our set-top boxes. In addition, we currently derive, and expect to continue to derive in the near term, revenue from sales of our set-top boxes to a limited number of customers. Continued market acceptance of our set-top boxes is critical to our future success. If we are not able to expand sales of our set-top boxes to other providers of digital television, our growth prospects will be limited, and our revenues will be substantially impacted. Our set-up boxes were initially designed for, and have been deployed mostly by, providers of cable-delivered digital television. To date, we have not made any sales of our set-top boxes to direct-to-home satellite providers. In addition, the set-top box market is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. In particular, we believe that most set-top boxes are sold by a small number of well entrenched competitors who have long-standing relationships with direct-to-home satellite providers. This competition may make it more difficult for us to sell home satellite set-top boxes, and may result in pricing pressure, small profit margins, high sales and marketing expenses and failure to obtain market share, any of which could likely seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 13 Our business may suffer if cable television operators, who currently comprise our customer base, do not compete successfully with existing and emerging alternative platforms for delivering digital television, including terrestrial networks, internet protocol television and direct-to-home satellite service providers. Our existing customers for our set-top boxes and networking products are cable television operators, which compete with direct-to-home satellite video providers and terrestrial broadcasters for the same pool of viewers. As technologies develop, other means of delivering information and entertainment to television viewers are evolving. For example, some telecommunications companies are seeking to compete with terrestrial broadcasters, cable television network operators and direct-to-home satellite services by offering internet protocol television, which allows telecommunications companies to stream television programs through telephone lines or fiber optic lines. To the extent that the terrestrial television networks, telecommunications companies and direct-to-home satellite providers compete successfully against cable television networks services for viewers, the ability of our existing customer base to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. As a result, demand for our set-top boxes could decline and we may not be able to sustain our current revenue levels. Our products may contain errors or defects, which could result in the rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources and increased service costs, warranty claims and litigation. Our products are complex and must meet stringent user requirements. In addition, we must develop our products to keep pace with the rapidly changing markets. Sophisticated products like ours are likely to contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new models or versions are released. Our products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products and jeopardize our relationship with carriers. End users may also reject or find issues with our products and have a right to return them even if the products are free from errors or defects. In either case, returns or quality issues could result in damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources, increased customer service and support costs, and warranty claims and litigation which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we were to lose our access to the China Unicom wireless network on which our GPS services to third-party depends, the loss would substantially interfere with our ability to transact the GPS segment of our business. Our GPS business is largely based on our access to the China Unicom wireless network. In March 2009, we entered into a network access right agreement with the Henan Subsidiary of China Unicom that allows us to use the China Unicom wireless network for providing GPS location and tracking services to third parties. We began providing GPS location and tracking services to third parties in the fourth quarter of 2009. If we were to lose our access to the China Unicom wireless network on which our services to third-party depends, the loss would substantially interfere with our ability to transact the GPS segment of our business. There are a limited number of wireless networks available in China, and if we were to lose our right to use the China Unicom wireless network, we would be forced to attempt to seek and negotiate access to on another network. There is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain access to another wireless network, and if we were able to, any down time associated with the loss of access to the wireless network could render our GPS systems, as issued, useless. Even if we were then able to identify and negotiate access to another wireless network, we might not be able to do so in time to preserve our business name and customer relationships. Thus, the loss of our access to the China Unicom wireless network could a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We do not carry any business interruption insurance, products liability insurance or any other insurance policy. As a result, we may incur uninsured losses, increasing the possibility that you would lose your entire investment in our company. We could be exposed to liabilities or other claims for which we would have no insurance protection. We do not currently maintain any business interruption insurance, products liability insurance, or any other comprehensive insurance policy. As a result, we may incur uninsured liabilities and losses as a result of the conduct of our business. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain additional insurance coverage in the future, and even if we are able to obtain additional coverage, we may not carry sufficient insurance coverage to satisfy potential claims. Should uninsured losses occur, any purchasers of our common stock could lose their entire investment. Because we do not carry products liability insurance, a failure of any of the products marketed by us may subject us to the risk of product liability claims and litigation arising from injuries allegedly caused by the improper functioning or design of our products. We cannot assure that we will have enough funds to defend or pay for liabilities arising out of a products liability claim. To the extent we incur any product liability or other litigation losses, our expenses could materially increase substantially. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to pay for such expenses, which could end our operations and you would lose your entire investment. 14 We intend to make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. Companies in our industry are under pressure to develop new designs and product innovations to support changing consumer tastes and regulatory requirements. To date, we have engaged in modest research and development activities and much of our expenditures on research and development have been reimbursed by the local government. However, we believe that substantial additional research and development activities are necessary to allow us to offer technologically-advanced products to serve a broader array of customers. We expect that our research and development budget will substantially increase as the scope of our operations expands and as we have access to additional working capital to fund these activities. However, research and development and investments in new technology are inherently speculative and commercial success depends on many factors including technological innovation, novelty, service and support, and effective sales and marketing. We may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may be minimal. We are subject to intense competition in the industry in which we operate, which could cause material reductions in the selling price of our products or losses of our market share. The primary market in which we compete—set-top boxes and networking products—is highly competitive, especially with respect to pricing and the introduction of new products and features. Our products compete primarily on the basis of: • reliability; • brand recognition; • quality; • price; • design; and • quality service and support to retailers and our customers. Currently, there are many significant competitors in the set-top box business including several established companies who have sold set-top boxes to major cable operators for many years. These competitors include companies such as Shenzhen Coship Electronics Co., Ltd; TianPo Broadband Network Technology Co, Ltd; and Qingdao Hisense Electric Co., Ltd. In addition, a number of rapidly growing companies have recently entered the market, many of them with set-top box offerings similar to our existing set-top box products. We also expect additional competition in the future from new and existing companies who do not currently compete in the market for set-top boxes. As the set-top box business evolves, our current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including software and hardware companies that could acquire significant market share, which could adversely affect our business. We also face competition from set-top boxes that have been internally developed by digital video providers. In recent years, we and many of our competitors, have regularly lowered prices, and we expect these pricing pressures to continue. If these pricing pressures are not mitigated by increases in volume, cost reductions from our supplier or changes in product mix, our revenues and profits could be substantially reduced. As compared to us, many of our competitors have: • significantly longer operating histories; • significantly greater managerial, financial, marketing, technical and other competitive resources; and • greater brand recognition. As a result, our competitors may be able to: • adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements; • devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services; and • respond more effectively to pricing pressures. These factors could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. In addition, competition could increase if: • new companies enter the market; • existing competitors expand their product mix; or • we expand into new markets. 15 An increase in competition could result in material price reductions or loss of our market share. Changes in existing technologies or the emergence of new products or technologies could significantly harm our business. Our businesses change rapidly as new technologies are developed. These new technologies may cause our services and products to become obsolete. Changes in existing technologies could also cause demand for our products and services to decline. For example, if changes in technology allow digital television subscribers to use devices such as personal computers, cable ready televisions and network based digital video recording services in place of set-top boxes, our customers may not need to purchase our set-top boxes to provide their digital television subscribers with digital video recording and other set-top box features. One or more new technologies also could be introduced that compete favorably with our products or that cause our products to no longer be of significant benefit to our customers. We and our suppliers also may not be able to keep pace with technological developments. Alternatively, if the new technologies on which we intend to focus our research and development investments fail to achieve acceptance in the marketplace, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our future competitive position that could cause a reduction in our revenues and earnings. Our competitors could also obtain or develop proprietary technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior to ours. Further, after we have incurred substantial research and development costs, one or more of the technologies under development could become obsolete prior to its introduction. Finally, delays in the delivery of components or other unforeseen problems may occur that could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue, offer new products and services and remain competitive. The loss or significant reduction in business of any of our key customers could materially and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We are highly dependent upon sales of our products to certain of our customers. During the year ended December 31, 2010, Yiyang Radio & Television Bureau and Huaxian Radio & Television Bureau, accounted for approximately 6% and 5% , respectively, of our net revenues. During our fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, Nanyang Radio & Television Bureau, Kaifeng Radio & Television Bureau, Pingding Radio & Television Bureau, Mengzhou Radio & Television Bureau, and Anyang Radio & Television Bureau each accounted for approximately 7%, 6%, 6%, 6% and 6%, respectively, of our net revenues. During our fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, Neihuang Radio & Television Bureau and Kaifeng Radio & Television Bureau each accounted for approximately 10% of our net revenues. No other customer accounted for greater than 5% of our net revenues during these periods. All purchases of our products by customers are made through purchase orders and we do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers. The loss of any of our customers to which we sell a significant amount of our products or any significant portion of orders from Cable TV Station of Pingdingshan and Cable TV Station of Nanyang, or such other customers or any material adverse change in the financial condition of such customers could negatively affect our revenues and decrease our earnings. We cannot rely on long-term purchase orders or commitments to protect us from the negative financial effects of a decline in demand for our products. The limited certainty of product orders can make it difficult for us to forecast our sales and allocate our resources in a manner consistent with our actual sales. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future sales and, if our expectations regarding future sales are inaccurate, we may be unable to reduce costs in a timely manner to adjust for sales shortfalls. Cancellations or reductions of customer orders could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses. Furthermore, because we depend on a small number of customers for the vast majority of our sales, the magnitude of the ramifications of these risks is greater than if our sales were less concentrated with a small number of customers. As a result of our lack of long-term purchase orders and purchase commitments we may experience a rapid decline in our sales and profitability. In addition, there are a relatively small number of potential new customers for our set-top boxes and we expect this customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. Therefore, our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the continued success of these customers. If we do not develop relationships with new customers, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our revenue. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for components for our products. The inability to secure components for our products could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our relationship with our customers. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for our component parts and raw materials. Although there are many suppliers for each of our component parts and raw materials, we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for many of the significant components and raw materials. This reliance involves a number of significant potential risks, including: 16 • lack of availability of materials and interruptions in delivery of components and raw materials from our suppliers; • manufacturing delays caused by such lack of availability or interruptions in delivery; • fluctuations in the quality and the price of components and raw materials, in particular due to the petroleum price impact on such materials; and • risks related to foreign operations. We generally do not have any long-term or exclusive purchase commitments with any of our suppliers. Sichuan Jinwangtong Technology Co. Ltd., Farway Electronics Factory, Guangzhou Beidou Dasantong Navigation Technology Co., Ltd., and Hangzhou Jingbao Electronic Ltd., each accounted for more than 10% of our purchases of components for our products for the year ended December 31, 2010. Hangzhou Jingbao Electronic Ltd., Sichuan Jinwangtong Technology Co. Ltd. and Jinbo Electronic Co. Ltd. each of which accounted for more than 10% of our purchases of components for our products for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. Hangzhou Jingbao Electronic Ltd., Farway Electronics Factory and Henan Hui-ke Electronics Co., Ltd. each accounted for more than 10% of our purchases of components for our products for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. Our failure to maintain existing relationships with our suppliers or to establish new relationships in the future could also negatively affect our ability to obtain our components and raw materials used in our products in a timely manner. If we are unable to obtain ample supply of products from our existing suppliers or alternative sources of supply, we may be unable to satisfy our customers’ orders which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our relationship with our customers. Certain disruptions in supply of and changes in the competitive environment for components and raw materials integral to our products may adversely affect our profitability. We use a broad range of materials and supplies, including LCD components, ICs, flash memories, WiFi modules, GPS modules, capacitors, resistors, switches, connectors, batteries and other electronic components in our products. A significant disruption in the supply of these materials could decrease production and shipping levels, materially increase our operating costs and materially adversely affect our profit margins. Shortages of materials or interruptions in transportation systems, labor strikes, work stoppages, war, acts of terrorism or other interruptions to or difficulties in the employment of labor or transportation in the markets in which we purchase materials, components and supplies for the production of our products, in each case may adversely affect our ability to maintain production of our products and sustain profitability. If we were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of critical components and raw materials from any of our suppliers and could not procure the components from other sources, we would be unable to meet our production schedules for some of our key products and to ship such products to our customers in a timely fashion, which would adversely affect our sales, margins and customer relations. Substantial defaults by our customers on accounts receivable or the loss of significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. A substantial portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or to make payments in a timely manner, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. An economic or industry downturn could materially adversely affect the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. A significant deterioration in our ability to collect on accounts receivable could also impact the cost or availability of financing available to us. In addition, our business is characterized by long periods for collection from our customers and short periods for payment to our suppliers, the combination of which may cause us to have liquidity problems. We experience an average accounts settlement period ranging from one month to as high as four months from the time we sell our products to the time we receive payment from our customers. In contrast, we typically need to place certain deposits and advances with our suppliers on a portion of the purchase price in advance and for some suppliers we must maintain a deposit for future orders. Because our payment cycle is considerably shorter than our receivable cycle, we may experience working capital shortages. Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in our results of operations and liquidity. We cannot assure you that system problems, industry trends or other issues will not extend our collection period, adversely impact our working capital. Our operations would be materially adversely affected if third-party carriers were unable to transport our products on a timely basis. All of our products are shipped through third party carriers. If a strike or other event prevented or disrupted these carriers from transporting our products, other carriers may be unavailable or may not have the capacity to deliver our products to our customers. If adequate third party sources to ship our products were unavailable at any time, our business would be materially adversely affected. 17 Our quarterly results may fluctuate because of many factors and, as a result, investors should not rely on quarterly operating results as indicative of future results. Fluctuations in operating results or the failure of operating results to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors may negatively impact the value of our securities. Quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors that could affect revenues or expenses in any particular quarter. Fluctuations in quarterly operating results could cause the value of our securities to decline. Investors should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations as an indication of future performance. As a result of the factors listed below, it is possible that in future periods results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This could cause the market price of our securities to decline. Factors that may affect our quarterly results include: • seasonal variations in operating results; • variations in the sales of our products to our significant customers; • the discretionary nature of our customers’ demands and spending patterns; • variations in manufacturing and supplier relationships; • fluctuation and unpredictability of costs related to the components and raw materials used to manufacture our products; • if we are unable to correctly anticipate and provide for inventory requirements from quarter to quarter, we may not have sufficient inventory to deliver our products to our customers in a timely fashion or we may have excess inventory that we are unable to sell; • competition from our competitors; • changes in market and economic conditions; • vulnerability of our business to a general economic downturn in China; • changes in the laws of the PRC that affect our operations; and • our ability to obtain necessary government certifications and/or licenses to conduct our business. In addition, our quarterly operating results could be materially adversely affected by political instability, war, acts of terrorism or other disasters. As a result of these and other factors, revenues for any quarter are subject to significant variation, which may adversely affect our results of operations and the market price for our common stock. We depend upon a patent that was transferred to us by Zhong Bo, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. The loss of this patent or our failure to properly maintain or enforce the patent may require us to suspend our operations until we obtain replacements and/or redesign our products. Prior to January 2009, we relied upon a patent licensed from our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Zhong Bo, which granted us rights to intellectual property that is necessary or useful for our business. Mr. Zhong transferred the patent to us in January 2009 through application to SIPO for the transfer of the patent to Zhengzhou ZST. SIPO accepted the application on December 31, 2008 and the patent transfer to Zhengzhou ZST was approved on January 9, 2009. Mr. Zhong did not receive any additional consideration for the transfer of the intellectual property rights to the Company, other than the execution of the patent license agreement being a condition to the closing of the Share Exchange. We may also enter into additional licenses to third party intellectual property in the future. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications for the intellectual property we have licensed. Even if patents issue in respect of these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. 18 Our ability to compete partly depends on the superiority, uniqueness and value of our technologies, including both internally developed technology and technology licensed from an affiliated party. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, any of the following occurrences may reduce the value of our intellectual property: • our applications for trademarks or patents may not be granted and, if granted, may be challenged or invalidated; • issued patents, copyrights and trademarks may not provide us with any competitive advantages; • our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology or dilution of our trademarks; • our efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with, or superior to those that we develop; or • another party may obtain a blocking patent that would force us to either obtain a license or design around the patent to continue to offer the contested feature or service in our technologies. We rely on trade secret protections through confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers and other parties; the breach of such agreements could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We also rely on trade secrets, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, customers and other parties. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any such breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by competitors. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed projects, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information that may not be resolved in our favor. We may be involved from time to time in litigation to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of effort by our management and technical personnel. We intend to pursue future acquisitions. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. Part of our growth strategy involves the acquisition of other companies. Any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. We intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. However, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms. In addition, we may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund future acquisitions. In addition, acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. We regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. If we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Future acquisitions could likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. The successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service and attract customers and develop new products and services. In addition, because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. We may need additional capital to implement our current business strategy, which may not be available to us, and if we raise additional capital, it may dilute your ownership in us. We currently primarily depend on net revenues to meet our short-term cash requirements. In order to grow revenues and sustain profitability, we will need additional capital. We recently completed a public offering of shares of common stock, and we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC for the future sale of an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants and other securities. The securities may be offered from time to time, if at all, separately or together. Obtaining financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor sentiment. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financing unattractive to us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any additional financing. If we are unable to obtain the financing needed to implement our business strategy, our ability to increase revenues will be impaired and we may not be able to sustain profitability. 19 The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. We have historically relied on credit to fund our business and we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities and access the capital necessary to operate and grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. Our failure to effectively manage growth could harm our business. We have rapidly and significantly expanded the number and types of products we sell, and we will endeavor to further expand our product portfolio. We must continually introduce new products and technologies, enhance existing products in order to remain competitive, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new products and upgraded versions of our existing products. This expansion of our products places a significant strain on our management, operations and engineering resources. Specifically, the areas that are strained most by our growth include the following: • New Product Launch. With the growth of our product portfolio, we experience increased complexity in coordinating product development, manufacturing, and shipping. As this complexity increases, it places a strain on our ability to accurately coordinate the commercial launch of our products with adequate supply to meet anticipated customer demand and effective marketing to stimulate demand and market acceptance. If we are unable to scale and improve our product launch coordination, we could frustrate our customers and lose retail shelf space and product sales; • Forecasting, Planning and Supply Chain Logistics. With the growth of our product portfolio, we also experience increased complexity in forecasting customer demand and in planning for production, and transportation and logistics management. If we are unable to scale and improve our forecasting, planning and logistics management, we could frustrate our customers, lose product sales or accumulate excess inventory; and • Support Processes. To manage the growth of our operations, we will need to continue to improve our transaction processing, operational and financial systems, and procedures and controls to effectively manage the increased complexity. If we are unable to scale and improve these areas, the consequences could include: delays in shipment of product, degradation in levels of customer support, lost sales, decreased cash flows, and increased inventory. These difficulties could harm or limit our ability to expand. We are dependent on certain key personnel and loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is, to a certain extent, attributable to the management, sales and marketing, and operational and technical expertise of certain key personnel. Each of the named executive officers performs key functions in the operation of our business. The loss of a significant number of these employees could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent on a technically trained workforce and an inability to retain or effectively recruit such employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must attract, recruit and retain a sizeable workforce of technically competent employees to develop and manufacture our products and provide service support. Our ability to implement effectively our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional highly skilled and experienced engineering and other technical and marketing personnel. Technological innovation is important to our success and depends, to a significant degree, on the work of technically skilled employees. There is significant competition for technologically qualified personnel in our business and we may not be successful in recruiting or retaining sufficient qualified personnel consistent with our operational needs. 20 Our facilities and information systems could be damaged as a result of disasters or unpredictable events, which could have an adverse effect on our business operations. Our headquarters and major facilities including sales offices and research and development centers are located in China. If major disasters such as earthquakes, fires, floods, wars, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, transportation disasters or other events occur, or our information system or communications network breaks down or operates improperly as a result of such events, our facilities may be seriously damaged, and we may have to stop or delay production and shipment. We may incur expenses relating to such damages. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA We derive substantially all of our revenues from sales in the PRC and any downturn in the Chinese economy could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Substantially all of our revenues are generated from sales in the PRC. We anticipate that revenues from sales of our products in the PRC will continue to represent the substantial portion of our total revenues in the near future. Our sales and earnings can also be affected by changes in the general economy since purchases of cable television services are generally discretionary for consumers. Our success is influenced by a number of economic factors which affect disposable consumer income, such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, oil and gas prices and taxation rates. Adverse changes in these economic factors, among others, may restrict consumer spending, thereby negatively affecting our sales and profitability. Substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China, and changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in the PRC and accordingly on the results of our operations and financial condition. Our business operations may be adversely affected by the current and future political environment in the PRC. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence and control over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, raw materials, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. Under the current government leadership, the government of the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies that encourage private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance, however, that the government of the PRC will continue to pursue these policies, or that it will not significantly alter these policies from time to time without notice. Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations that are sometimes vague and uncertain. Any changes in such PRC laws and regulations, or the interpretations thereof, may have a material and adverse effect on our business. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States, decided legal cases have little value as precedent in China. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy or criminal proceedings. The Chinese government has been developing a comprehensive system of commercial laws, and considerable progress has been made in introducing laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and judicial interpretation and their lack of force as precedents, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. Our principal operating subsidiary, Zhengzhou Shenyang Technology Company Limited (“Zhengzhou ZST”), is considered a foreign invested enterprise under PRC laws, and as a result is required to comply with PRC laws and regulations, including laws and regulations specifically governing the activities and conduct of foreign invested enterprises. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. If the relevant authorities find us in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: • levying fines; • revoking our business license, other licenses or authorities; • requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and • requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. 21 Investors may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws against us or our management. Most of our current operations, including the manufacturing and distribution of our products, are conducted in China. Moreover, all of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of China. All or substantially all of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States and in the PRC. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these persons. In addition, uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or such officers and/or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in China against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. The scope of our business license in China is limited, and we may not expand or continue our business without government approval and renewal, respectively. Our principal operating subsidiary, Zhengzhou ZST, is a wholly foreign-owned enterprise, commonly known as a WFOE. A WFOE can only conduct business within its approved business scope, which ultimately appears on its business license. Our license permits us to design, manufacture, sell and market portable electronic products throughout the PRC and overseas. Any amendment to the scope of our business requires further application and government approval. In order for us to expand our business beyond the scope of our license, we will be required to enter into a negotiation with the PRC authorities for the approval to expand the scope of our business. We cannot assure investors that Zhengzhou ZST will be able to obtain the necessary government approval for any change or expansion of its business. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations related to our manufacturing operations. Our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We cannot assure you that at all times we will be in compliance with environmental laws and regulations or that we will not be required to expend significant funds to comply with, or discharge liabilities arising under, environmental laws, regulations and permits. Recent PRC regulations relating to acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict or limit our ability to operate. Our failure to obtain required prior approval for the share exchange, reverse merger and the listing and trading of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our common stock. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or “SAFE,” issued a public notice in November 2005, known as Circular 75, concerning the use of offshore holding companies controlled by PRC residents in mergers and acquisitions in China. This circular requires that (1) a PRC resident shall register with a local branch of the SAFE before he or she establishes or controls an overseas special purpose vehicle, or SPV, for the purpose of overseas equity financing (including convertible debt financing); (2) when a PRC resident contributes the assets of or his or her equity interests in a domestic enterprise to an SPV, or engages in overseas financing after contributing assets or equity interests to an SPV, such PRC resident must register his or her interest in the SPV and any changes in such interest with a local branch of the SAFE; and (3) when the SPV undergoes a material change outside of China, such as a change in share capital or merger or acquisition, the PRC resident shall, within 30 days from the occurrence of the event that triggers the change, register such change with a local branch of the SAFE. In addition, SAFE issued updated internal implementing rules, or the Implementing Rules in relation to Circular 75. The Implementing Rules were promulgated and became effective on May 29, 2007. Such Implementing Rules provide more detailed provisions and requirements regarding the overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures. However, even after the promulgation of Implementing Rules there still exist uncertainties regarding the SAFE registration for PRC residents’ interests in overseas companies. If any PRC resident stockholder of a SPV fails to make the required SAFE registration and amended registration, the onshore PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore entity. Our PRC resident beneficial holders have not completed such approvals and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. Failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Because of uncertainty in how the SAFE notice will be interpreted and enforced, we cannot be sure how it will affect our business operations or future plans. For example, Zhengzhou ZST’s ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with the SAFE notice by our PRC resident beneficial holders over whom we have no control. In addition, we cannot assure you that such PRC residents will be able to complete the necessary approval and registration procedures required by the SAFE regulations. Failure by any PRC resident beneficial holder to register as required with the relevant branch of SAFE could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit Zhengzhou ZST’s ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. On August 8, 2006, the PRC Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), joined by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, the State Administration of Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission and SAFE, released a substantially amended version of the Provisions for Foreign Investors to Merge with or Acquire Domestic Enterprises (the “Revised M&A Regulations”), which took effect September 8, 2006. These new rules significantly revised China’s regulatory framework governing onshore-to-offshore restructurings and foreign acquisitions of domestic enterprises. These new rules signify greater PRC government attention to cross-border merger, acquisition and other investment activities, by confirming MOFCOM as a key regulator for issues related to mergers and acquisitions in China and requiring MOFCOM approval of a broad range of merger, acquisition and investment transactions. Further, the new rules establish reporting requirements for acquisition of control by foreigners of companies in key industries, and reinforce the ability of the Chinese government to monitor and prohibit foreign control transactions in key industries. 22 Among other things, the revised M&A Regulations include new provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or a SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals must obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among the leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. According to the M&A Regulations, a “Related Party Acquisition” is defined as having taken place when a PRC business that is owned by PRC individual(s) is sold to a non-PRC entity that is established or controlled, directly or indirectly, by those same PRC individual(s). Under the M&A Regulations, any Related Party Acquisition must be approved by MOFCOM and any indirect arrangement or series of arrangements which achieves the same end result without the approval of MOFCOM is a violation of PRC law. Our BVI subsidiary, World Orient, World Orient’s BVI subsidiary, Global Asia, and Global Asia’s Hong Kong subsidiary, Everfair, were owned by non-PRC individuals. Everfair obtained all the equity interests of Zhengzhou ZST (the “Restructuring”) further to an Equity Purchase Agreement dated October 10, 2008 (the “Equity Purchase Agreement”) by and among Everfair, Zhong Bo, Wu Dexiu, Huang Jiankang, Sun Hui and Li Yuting (the “ZST Management”). The Equity Purchase Agreement received approval by the Zhengzhou Municipal Bureau of Commerce on November 10, 2008 and Zhengzhou ZST filed all required applications and received all appropriate SAFE approvals from the Henan branch of SAFE. With respect to the Restructuring, the PRC legal counsel of Zhengzhou ZST, Han Kun Law Offices, has opined on January 9, 2009 that: (1) the Equity Purchase Agreement and the Restructuring have received all requisite approvals from the competent authorities, and all required registrations, certifications and approvals for the Equity Purchase Agreement and the Restructuring have been received by Zhengzhou ZST; (2) Zhengzhou ZST has filed all required applications for the Equity Purchase Agreement and the Restructuring and has received any and all foreign exchange registrations, certifications and approvals as required, including, but not limited to, those as required from the appropriate national and local branches of SAFE and MOFCOM; and (3) to their best knowledge, the Equity Purchase Agreement and the Restructuring do not (a) contravene or circumvent any provision of applicable PRC laws and regulations, including without limitation, the M&A Regulations, Circular 75 and its implementing rules; or (b) contravene the articles of association, business license or other constituent documents of Zhengzhou ZST. On January 14, 2009, Zhong Bo, our Chief Executive Officer, Wu Dexiu, Huang Jiankang, Sun Hui and Li Yuting (the “ZST Management”) each entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement pursuant to which the Company issued and the ZST Management agreed to purchase an aggregate of 5,090,315 shares of our common stock at a per share purchase price of $0.6907 (the “Purchase Right”). The purchase price for the shares was paid in full on May 25, 2009. Each of the stockholders and warrantholders of the Company prior to the Share Exchange agreed to cancel 0.3317 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 0.5328 shares of common stock held by each of them for each one (1) share of common stock purchased by the ZST Management pursuant to the Purchase Right (the “Share and Warrant Cancellation”). After giving effect to the Purchase Right and Share and Warrant Cancellation, Mr. Zhong beneficially owned approximately 59.87% of our outstanding common stock upon the acquisition of shares under the Purchase Right. The PRC regulatory authorities may take the view that the acquisition of Zhengzhou ZST by Everfair, the Share Exchange, the Purchase Right and the Share and Warrant Cancellation are part of an overall series of arrangements which constitute a Related Party Acquisition, because at the end of these transactions, PRC individuals become majority owners and effective controlling parties of a foreign entity that acquired ownership of Zhengzhou ZST. The PRC regulatory authorities may also take the view that the registration of the acquisition of Zhengzhou ZST by Everfair with the Zhengzhou Municipal Bureau of Commerce and the filings with the Henan SAFE may not evidence that the acquisition has been properly approved because the relevant parties did not fully disclose to the Zhengzhou Bureau of Commerce or Henan SAFE of the overall restructuring arrangements, the existence of the Share Exchange and its link with the acquisition of Zhengzhou ZST by Everfair . We, however, cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities, MOFCOM in particular, may take the same view as the PRC legal counsel with respect to the Restructuring. If the PRC regulatory authorities take the view that the acquisition constitutes a Related Party Acquisition under the M&A Regulations, we cannot assure you we may be able to obtain the approval required from the national offices of MOFCOM. If the PRC regulatory authorities take the view that the acquisition of Zhengzhou ZST by Everfair constitutes a Related Party Acquisition without the approval of the national offices of MOFCOM, they could invalidate our acquisition and ownership of Zhengzhou ZST. Additionally, the PRC regulatory authorities may take the view that the Share Exchange constitutes a transaction which requires the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC. If this takes place, we would attempt to find a way to re-establish control of Zhengzhou ZST’s business operations through a series of contractual arrangements rather than an outright purchase of Zhengzhou ZST. But we cannot assure you that any such contractual arrangements will be protected by PRC law or that the Company can receive as complete or effective economic benefit and overall control of Zhengzhou ZST’s business than if the Company had direct ownership of Zhengzhou ZST. In addition, we cannot assure you that any such contractual arrangements can be successfully effected under PRC law. If we cannot obtain MOFCOM or CSRC approval if required by the PRC regulatory authorities to do so, and if we cannot put in place or enforce relevant contractual arrangements as an alternative and equivalent means of control of Zhengzhou ZST, our business and financial performance will be materially adversely affected. 23 If the CSRC approval is not obtained, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from any financings into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our common stock. The CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies also may take actions requiring us, or making it advisable for us, to halt the proposed public offering before settlement and delivery of the common stock offered thereby. Consequently, if investors engage in market trading or other activities in anticipation of and prior to settlement and delivery, they do so at the risk that settlement and delivery may not occur. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, published news reports in China recently indicated that the CSRC may have curtailed or suspended overseas listings for Chinese private companies. These news reports have created further uncertainty regarding the approach that the CSRC and other PRC regulators may take with respect to us. It is uncertain how our business operations or future strategy will be affected by the interpretations and implementation of the aforementioned rules and regulations. It is anticipated that application of the new rules will be subject to significant administrative interpretation, and we will need to closely monitor how MOFCOM and other ministries apply the rules to ensure that our domestic and offshore activities continue to comply with PRC law. Given the uncertainties regarding interpretation and application of the new rules, we may need to expend significant time and resources to maintain compliance. Our labor costs are likely to increase as a result of changes in Chinese labor laws. We expect to experience an increase in our cost of labor due to recent changes in Chinese labor laws which are likely to increase costs further and impose restrictions on our relationship with our employees. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law and more strictly enforced existing labor laws. The new law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, amended and formalized workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. As a result of the new law, the Company has had to reduce the number of hours of overtime its employees can work, substantially increase the salaries of its employees, provide additional benefits to its employees, and revise certain other of its labor practices. The increase in labor costs has increased the Company’s operating costs, which increase the Company has not always been able to pass through to its customers. As a result, the Company has incurred certain operating losses as its cost of manufacturing increased. In addition, under the new law, employees who either have worked for the Company for 10 years or more or who have had two consecutive fixed-term contracts must be given an “open-ended employment contract” that, in effect, constitutes a lifetime, permanent contract, which is terminable only in the event the employee materially breaches the Company’s rules and regulations or is in serious dereliction of his duty. Such non-cancelable employment contracts will substantially increase its employment related risks and limit the Company’s ability to downsize its workforce in the event of an economic downturn. No assurance can be given that the Company will not in the future be subject to labor strikes or that it will not have to make other payments to resolve future labor issues caused by the new laws. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the labor laws will not change further or that their interpretation and implementation will vary, which may have a negative effect upon our business and results of operations. The ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to foreign exchange control and other regulations of China. Under applicable PRC regulations, foreign-invested enterprises in China may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, a foreign-invested enterprise in China is required to set aside at least 10.0% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reach 50.0% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. The board of directors of a foreign-invested enterprise has the discretion to allocate a portion of its after-tax profits to staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to equity owners except in the event of liquidation. Furthermore, the ability of our Chinese operating subsidiaries to pay dividends may be restricted due to the foreign exchange control policies and availability of cash balance of the Chinese operating subsidiaries. Because substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and a substantial majority of our revenues are generated in China, a majority of our revenue being earned and currency received are denominated in Renminbi (RMB). RMB is subject to the exchange control regulation in China, and, as a result, we may unable to distribute any dividends outside of China due to PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into U.S. Dollars. 24 Our inability to receive dividends or other payments from our Chinese operating subsidiary could adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Zhengzhou ZST’s funds may not be readily available to us to satisfy obligations which have been incurred outside the PRC, which could adversely affect our business and prospects or our ability to meet our cash obligations. Accordingly, if we do not receive dividends from our Chinese operating subsidiary, our liquidity, financial condition and ability to make dividend distributions to our stockholders will be materially and adversely affected. The foreign currency exchange rate between U.S. Dollars and Renminbi could adversely affect our financial condition. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. Dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs, our financial position and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. Dollar at that time. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. Dollars for the operational needs or paying dividends on our common stock, the dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced should the U.S. Dollar appreciate against the Renminbi. Until 1994, the Renminbi experienced a gradual but significant devaluation against most major currencies, including U.S. Dollars, and there was a significant devaluation of the Renminbi on January 1, 1994 in connection with the replacement of the dual exchange rate system with a unified managed floating rate foreign exchange system. Since 1994, the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. Dollar has remained stable and has appreciated slightly against the U.S. Dollar. Countries, including the United States, have argued that the Renminbi is artificially undervalued due to China’s current monetary policies and have pressured China to allow the Renminbi to float freely in world markets. In July 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. Dollar. Under the new policy the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of designated foreign currencies. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, China’s Consumer Price Index increased 2.7% in February 2010 over February 2009. If prices for our products and services rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies such as raw materials, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. Furthermore, in order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. In January 2010, the Chinese government took steps to tighten the availability of credit including ordering banks to increase the amount of reserves they hold and to reduce or limit their lending. The implementation of such policies may impede economic growth. In 2004, the People’s Bank of China, the PRC’s central bank, raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade and indicated in a statement that the measure was prompted by inflationary concerns in the Chinese economy. In 2007, and most recently in October 2010, the People’s Bank of China raised the interest rate again. Repeated rises in interest rates by the central bank would likely slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our products and services. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. As our ultimate holding company is a Delaware corporation, we are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices may occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 If we make equity compensation grants to persons who are PRC citizens, they may be required to register with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC, or SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt an equity compensation plan for our directors and employees and other parties under PRC law. On April 6, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, also know as “Circular 78” to regulate the foreign exchange matters associated with the employee stock option plans granted to PRC individuals by companies whose shares are listed on overseas stock exchanges. Domestic individuals who are granted shares or share options by companies listed on overseas stock exchanges based on the company’s employee share option or share incentive plan are required to register with the SAFE or its local counterparts. Pursuant to Circular 78, PRC individuals participating in the employee stock option plans of the overseas listed companies must entrust a domestic agent, which can be a subsidiary of the overseas listed company in China to handle various foreign exchange matters associated with their employee stock options plans. The PRC agents or employers must, on behalf of the domestic individuals who have the right to exercise the employee stock options, apply annually to the SAFE or its local competent branches for a quota for the conversion and/or payment of foreign currencies in connection with the domestic individuals’ exercise of the employee stock options. The foreign exchange proceeds received by the domestic individuals from sale of shares under the stock option plans granted by the overseas listed companies must be remitted into the bank accounts in China opened by their employers or PRC agents. We have adopted the ZST Digital Networks, Inc. 2010 Omnibus Incentive Plan and plan to make substantial option grants to our officers and directors, most of who are PRC citizens. We plan to advise our employees and directors participating in our stock incentive plan to handle foreign exchange matters in accordance with Circular 78. However, we cannot assure that the stock options holders can successfully complete the registration with the SAFE in full compliance with Circular 78. The failure of our stock options holders to complete their SAFE registration pursuant to Circular 78 and other SAFE requirements may subject these PRC individuals to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute dividends to us or otherwise materially adversely affect our business. Further, in 2005 and 2006, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation jointly issued notices concerning the individual income tax on earnings from employee stock options. The notice requires PRC companies that implement employee share option programs in the PRC, under which the shares issuable are the shares of listed companies (domestic or overseas) to (i) file the employee share option plans and other relevant documents to the local taxation departments having jurisdiction over them before implementation of such employee share option plans; and (ii) file share option exercise notices and other relevant documents with the local taxation departments having jurisdiction over them before exercise by the employees of the share options. To comply with the requirement, we will file the ZST Digital Networks, Inc. 2010 Omnibus Incentive Plan with the local taxation bureau. Any outbreak of the Swine Flu (H1N1), severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, the Avian Flu, or another widespread public health problem in the PRC could adversely affect our operations. There have been recent outbreaks of the highly pathogenic Swine Flu, caused by the H1N1 virus, in certain regions of the world, including parts of China, where all of our manufacturing facilities are located and where all of our sales occur. Our business is dependent upon our ability to continue to manufacture and distribute our products, and an outbreak of the Swine Flu, or a renewed outbreak of SARS, the Avian Flu, or another widespread public health problem in China, could have a negative effect on our operations. Any such outbreak could have an impact on our operations as a result of: ● quarantines or closures of our manufacturing or distribution facilities or the retail outlets, which would severely disrupt our operations, ● the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and ● a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our operations. We face risks related to natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events in China that may affect usage of public transportation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events in China. For example, in early 2008, parts of China suffered a wave of strong snow storms that severely impacted public transportation systems. In May 2008, Sichuan Province in China suffered a strong earthquake measuring approximately 8.0 on the Richter scale that caused widespread damage and casualties. The May 2008 Sichuan earthquake has had a material adverse effect on the general economic conditions in the areas affected by the earthquake. Any future natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other events in China could cause a reduction in usage of or other severe disruptions to, public transportation systems and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 26 Because our business is located in the PRC, we may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls, which we are required to do in order to comply with U.S. GAAP and securities laws, and which could cause a materially adverse impact on our financial statements, the trading of our common stock and our business. PRC companies have historically not adopted a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. Most of our middle and top management staff are not educated and trained in the Western system, and we may have difficulty hiring new employees in the PRC with experience and expertise relating to U.S. GAAP and U.S. public-company reporting requirements. In addition, we may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any such deficiencies, material weaknesses or lack of compliance could result in restatements of our historical financial information, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock, adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets and our ability to recruit personnel, lead to the delisting of our securities from the stock exchange on which they are traded, lead to litigation claims, thereby diverting management’s attention and resources, and which may lead to the payment of damages to the extent such claims are not resolved in our favor, lead to regulatory proceedings, which may result in sanctions, monetary or otherwise, and have a materially adverse effect on our reputation and business. Contract drafting, interpretation and enforcement in China involves significant uncertainty. We have entered into numerous contracts governed by PRC law, many of which are material to our business. As compared with contracts in the United States, contracts governed by PRC law tend to contain less detail and are not as comprehensive in defining contracting parties’ rights and obligations. As a result, contracts in China are more vulnerable to disputes and legal challenges. In addition, contract interpretation and enforcement in China is not as developed as in the United States, and the result of any contract dispute is subject to significant uncertainties. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to disputes under our material contracts, and if such disputes arise, we cannot assure you that we will prevail. Under the New EIT Law, we, World Orient, Global Asia and EverFair may be classified as “resident enterprises” of China for tax purpose, which may subject us , World Orient , Global Asia and EverFair to PRC income tax on taxable global income. Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “New EIT Law”) and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law, enterprises are classified as resident enterprises and non-resident enterprises. An enterprise established outside of China with its “de facto management bodies” located within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese domestic enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define de facto management body as a managing body that in practice exercises “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. Due to the short history of the New EIT law and lack of applicable legal precedents, it remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will determine the PRC tax resident treatment of a foreign company such as us, World Orient, Global Asia and EverFair. We, World Orient, Global Asia and EverFair all have members of management located in China. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we, World Orient, Global Asia or EverFair is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the applicable tax years and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. If we, World Orient, Global Asia or EverFair are required to pay income tax on our worldwide income at the 25% tax rate, the amount of dividends we, World Orient, Global Asia or EverFair could pay to its shareholders would be materially reduced. If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be credited against our U.S. tax. As a result of the New EIT Law, our historical operating results will not be indicative of our operating results for future periods and the value of our common stock. Dividends EverFair receives from Zhengzhou ZST located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. If we, World Orient, Global Asia and EverFair are not treated as a resident enterprise under the New EIT Law, then dividends that EverFair receive from Zhengzhou ZST may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The New EIT Law provides that an income tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-resident investors, which (i) do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC or (ii) have an establishment or place of business in the PRC but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. The State Council of the PRC reduced such rate to 10% through the implementation regulations of the New EIT Law. Further, pursuant to the Double Tax Avoidance Arrangement between Hong Kong and Mainland China and the Notice on Certain Issues with Respect to the Enforcement of Dividend Provisions in Tax Treaties issued on February 20, 2009 by the State Administration of Taxation, if the Hong Kong resident enterprise owns more than 25% of the equity interest in a company in China incessantly within 12 months immediately prior to obtaining dividend from such company, the 10% withholding tax on the dividends the Hong Kong resident enterprise received from such company in China is reduced to 5%. 27 As described above, the PRC tax authorities determine the resident enterprise status of entities organized under the laws of foreign jurisdictions, including ZST, World Orient, Global Asia or EverFair, on a case-by-case basis. Each of ZST, World Orient, Global Asia or EverFair is a holding company and substantially all of its income may be derived from dividends EverFair receives from Zhengzhou ZST. EverFair is incorporated in Hong Kong, which owns 100% equity interest in Zhengzhou ZST. Thus, if ZST, World Orient, Global Asia or EverFair is considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the New EIT Law and EverFair is considered as a Hong Kong resident enterprise under the Double Tax Avoidance Arrangement, dividends paid to EverFair by Zhengzhou ZST may be subject to the reduced 5% enterprise income tax. However, based on the Notice on Certain Issues with Respect to the Enforcement of Dividend Provisions in Tax Treaties, if the relevant PRC tax authorities determine, in their discretion, that a company benefits from such reduced income tax rate due to a structure or arrangement that is primarily tax-driven, such PRC tax authorities may adjust the preferential tax treatment; and based on the Notice on the Comprehension and Recognition of Beneficial Owner in Tax Treaties issued on October 27, 2009 by the State Administration of Taxation, funnel companies, which are established for the purpose of evading or reducing tax, transferring or accumulating profits, shall not be recognized as beneficial owner and thus are not entitled to the abovementioned reduced income tax rate of 5% under the Double Tax Avoidance Arrangement. If we are required under the New EIT Law to pay income tax for any dividends EverFair receive from Zhengzhou ZST, or if EverFair is determined by PRC government authority as receiving benefits from reduced income tax rate due to a structure or arrangement that is primarily tax-driven, it would materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and any gain on the sale of our shares may be subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. If dividends payable to shareholders by the Company are treated as income derived from sources within China, then the dividends that shareholders receive from us, and any gain on the sale or transfer of our shares, may be subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the New EIT Law, PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 20% is applicable to dividends payable by us to our investors that are non-resident enterprises which (i) do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC or (ii) have an establishment or place of business in the PRC but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. The State Council of the PRC reduced such rate to 10% through the implementation regulations of the New EIT Law. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of our shares by such investors is also subject to a 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within China and the Company is considered as a resident enterprise which is domiciled in China for tax purpose. If we are required under the New EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our foreign shareholders or investors who are non-resident enterprises, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer or our shares under the circumstances mentioned above, the value of your investment in our shares may be materially and adversely affected. In January, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Provisional Measures for the Administration of Withholding of Enterprise Income Tax for Non-resident Enterprises (“Measures”), pursuant to which, the entities which have the direct obligation to make the following payment to a non-resident enterprise shall be the relevant tax withholders for such non-resident enterprise, and such payment includes: incomes from equity investment (including dividends and other return on investment), interests, rents, royalties, and incomes from assignment of property as well as other incomes subject to enterprise income tax received by non-resident enterprises in China. Further, the Measures provides that in case of equity transfer between two non-resident enterprises which occurs outside China, the non-resident enterprise which receives the equity transfer payment shall, by itself or engage an agent to, file tax declaration with the PRC tax authority located at place of the PRC company whose equity has been transferred, and the PRC company whose equity has been transferred shall assist the tax authorities to collect taxes from the relevant non-resident enterprise. However, it is unclear whether the Measures refer to the equity transfer by a non-resident enterprise which is a direct or an indirect shareholder of the said PRC company. Given these Measures, there is a possibility that Zhengzhou ZST may have an obligation to withhold income tax in respect of the dividends paid to non-resident enterprise investors. Furthermore, non-resident individual investors may be required to pay PRC individual income tax at a rate of 20% on interests or dividends payable to the investors or any capital gains realized from the transfer of shares if such gains are deemed income derived from sources within the PRC. Under the PRC Individual Income Tax Law, or IIT Law, non-resident individual refers to an individual who has no domicile in China and does not stay in the territory of China or who has no domicile in China and has stayed in the territory of China for less than one year. Pursuant to the IIT Law and its implementation rules, for purposes of the PRC capital gains tax, the taxable income will be the balance of the total income obtained from the transfer of the shares minus all the costs and expenses that are permitted under PRC tax laws to be deducted from the income. If we are considered a ‘‘resident enterprise’’ and relevant competent PRC tax authorities consider dividends we pay with respect to our shares and the gains realized from the transfer of our shares to be income derived from sources within the PRC, such gains earned by non-resident individuals may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of 20%. If we are required under PRC law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are non-resident individuals or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our shares, the value of your investment in our shares may be materially and adversely affected. 28 We will not be able to complete an acquisition of prospective acquisition targets in the PRC unless their financial statements can be reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles in a timely manner. Companies based in the PRC may not have properly kept financial books and records that may be reconciled with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. If we attempt to acquire a significant PRC target company and/or its assets, we would be required to obtain or prepare financial statements of the target that are prepared in accordance with and reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Federal securities laws require that a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests require the public acquirer to prepare and file historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure with the SEC. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. If a proposed acquisition target does not have financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we will not be able to acquire that proposed acquisition target. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential acquisition targets with which we may acquire and hinder our ability to expand our retail operations. Furthermore, if we consummate an acquisition and are unable to timely file audited financial statements and/or pro forma financial information required by the Exchange Act, such as Item 9.01 of Form 8-K, we will be ineligible to use the SEC’s short-form registration statement on Form S-3 to raise capital, if we are otherwise eligible to use a Form S-3. If we are ineligible to use a Form S-3, the process of raising capital may be more expensive and time consuming and the terms of any offering transaction may not be as favorable as they would have been if we were eligible to use Form S-3. We face uncertainty from China’s Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-Resident Enterprises' Share Transfer (“Circular 698”) that was released in December 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008. The Chinese State Administration of Taxation released a circular (“Circular 698”) on December 10, 2009 that addresses the transfer of shares by nonresident companies. Circular 698, which is effective retroactively to January 1, 2008, may have a significant impact on many companies that use offshore holding companies to invest in China. Pursuant to Circular 698, where the withholding agent does not withhold in accordance with laws or cannot perform the withholding obligation, the non-resident enterprises shall file a tax declaration with the PRC tax authority located at place of the resident enterprise whose equity has been transferred, within seven days since the date of equity transfer provided under the contracts. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of his, her, or its residents is not taxable, the foreign investor is required to provide the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise with the relevant information within 30 days of the transfers. Moreover, where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise through an abuse of form of organization and there are no reasonable commercial purposes such that the corporate income tax liability is avoided, the PRC tax authority will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer and deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes. There is uncertainty as to the application of Circular 698. For example, while the term "indirectly transfer" is not defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. Moreover, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax in the country or jurisdiction and to what extent and the process of the disclosure to the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise. In addition, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to decide abuse of form of organization and reasonable commercial purpose, which can be utilized by us to balance if our company complies with the Circular 698. As a result, we may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE Our stock price is volatile. Prior to the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market in October 2009, there was no public market for our securities in the United States. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the performance of its listed companies. Moreover, only a limited number of our shares are traded each day, which could increase the volatility of the price of our stock. These market fluctuations might cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance. The market price of our common stock might fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: ● actual or anticipated fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results of operations; ● changes in securities analysts’ expectations; ● variations in our operating results, which could cause us to fail to meet analysts’ or investors’ expectations; 29 ● announcements by our competitors or us of significant new products, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ● conditions and trends in our industry; ● general market, economic, industry and political conditions; ● changes in market values of comparable companies; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● stock market price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels; and ● future sales of equity or debt securities, including sales which dilute existing investors. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of outstanding stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of the date of this Annual Report, we had approximately 11,710,442 shares of common stock outstanding. In October 2009, we conducted a registered public offering of 3,125,000 shares of common stock, and all of these shares are now freely tradable. Also in October 2009, we registered 1,263,723 shares of common stock underlying shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that were issued in a series of equity financings that was conducted in connection with the Share Exchange (the “Private Placement Shares”). Each private placement investor may sell or transfer any shares of the common stock pursuant to the effective registration statement. We also registered 278,600 shares of common stock held by certain of our stockholders immediately prior to the Share Exchange (the “SRKP Shares”). In January 2010, we registered 1,086,400 shares of common stock held by affiliates of WestPark, all of which may be freely sold and transferred. Additionally, the former stockholders of World Orient and/or their designees and the ZST Management, may be eligible to sell all or some of our shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”) as of January 2010, subject to certain limitations. Under Rule 144, an affiliate stockholder who has satisfied the required holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. As of the date of this Annual Report, 1% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock was approximately 117,104 shares. Non-affiliate stockholders are not subject to volume limitations. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to any resale prospectus or Rule 144 may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock by creating an excessive supply. However, each of our executive officers and directors, in additional to all of the stockholders that received shares issued in the Share Exchange or pursuant to the Purchase Right, holding an aggregate of 5,171,565 shares of common stock, have agreed with the Underwriters not to directly or indirectly sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer (excluding intra-family transfers, transfers to a trust for estate planning purposes or to beneficiaries of officers, directors and stockholders upon their death), or otherwise dispose of or enter into any transaction which may result in the disposition of any shares of our common stock or securities convertible into, exchangeable or exercisable for any shares of our common stock, without the prior written consent of the Underwriters, for a period of 24 months after October 20, 2009. Holders of 725,158 shares of common stock have agreed with the Underwriters to be bound by the same transfer restrictions described above, except that such restrictions shall be released on such dates and amounts as follows: (i) 121,876 shares on the date that is six (6) months after our common stock began to be listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, (ii) 121,876 shares on the date that is twelve (12) months after such listing date, (iii) 353,438 shares on the date that is two (2) years after such listing date, and (iv) 127,968 shares shall be released from the restrictions as determined by WestPark, in its sole discretion. 30 We intend to grant shares of or stock options to purchase shares of our common stock to various of our officers, directors and employees pursuant to our 2010 Omnibus Incentive Plan for which we will incur significant non-cash charges which will negatively affect our results of operations and which may cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. At our annual meeting of stockholders to be held on August 23, 2010, our stockholders approved the ZST Digital Networks, Inc. 2010 Omnibus Incentive Plan covering 500,000 shares of our common stock. We have issued and intend to further issue various types of awards under the plan, including, but not limited to, stock options and restricted shares of common stock. Grants or other stock awards pursuant to the plan will cause us to incur significant non-cash equity-based compensation charges. This non-cash charge will be amortized over the vesting period of the awards. These non-cash charges will negatively impact our results of operations, specifically our net income and net income per share. Additionally, any future awards made pursuant to the plan could have a significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock, especially if a significant volume of the stock issued is sold into the public market. Further, the issuance of any stock awards pursuant to the plan will have a dilutive impact on other stockholders by decreasing their ownership percentage of our outstanding common stock. An adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock may negatively affect our ability to use to our securities to raise capital or to acquire other companies using our securities. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the public markets and public reporting. Our management team will need to invest significant management time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which will lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. Changes in securities laws, regulations and financial reporting standards are increasing our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 required changes in some of our corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices. These changes resulted in increased costs and as we grow, we expect to see our costs increase. The SEC has passed, promulgated and proposed new rules on a variety of subjects including the requirement that we must file our financial statements with the SEC using the interactive data format eXtensible Business Reporting Language (commonly referred to as “XBRL”) and the possibility that we would be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). We may have to add additional accounting staff, engage consultants or change our internal practices, standards and policies which could significantly increase our costs to comply with XBRL and IFRS requirements. In addition, the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) has revised its requirements for companies, such as us, that are listed on NASDAQ. These changes are increasing our legal and financial compliance costs including making it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance or maintain our current liability coverage. We believe that these new and proposed laws and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, it may lead to a restatement of our financial information and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected, as well as our ability to access the capital markets and our business. We are required to establish and maintain appropriate internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to establish those controls, or any failure of those controls once established, could adversely impact our public disclosures regarding our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any failure of these controls could also prevent us from maintaining accurate accounting records and discovering accounting errors and financial frauds. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. We may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. In addition, management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting may identify weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure of management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock, adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets and our ability to recruit personnel, lead to the delisting of our securities from the stock exchange on which they are traded, lead to litigation claims, thereby diverting management’s attention and resources, and which may lead to the payment of damages to the extent such claims are not resolved in our favor, lead to regulatory proceedings, which may result in sanctions, monetary or otherwise and have a materially adverse effect on our reputation and business. We may be exposed to risks relating to our disclosure controls and our internal controls and may need to incur significant costs to comply with applicable requirements. Based on the evaluation done by our management at August 10, 2010, our disclosure controls were deemed ineffective, in that we could not assure that information required to be disclosed in our SEC reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and communicated to our management, so as to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. 31 Our controls and procedures were primarily adversely affected by the lack of experience within the company in complying with the requirements of a publicly reporting entity. With the exception of our CFO, our current internal accounting department responsible for financial reporting of the Company, on a consolidated basis, is relatively new to U.S. GAAP and the related internal control procedures required of U.S. public companies. Although our accounting staff is professional and experienced in accounting requirements and procedures generally accepted in the PRC, management has determined that they require additional training and assistance in US GAAP matters. Management has determined that our internal audit function is also significantly deficient due to insufficient qualified resources to perform internal audit functions. We have engaged a third-party internal controls consultant to assist the Company to address issues of timeliness and completeness in financial reporting when we are preparing SEC filings. We are currently in the process of validating the recommendations made by the internal controls consultant. No assurances can be given that we will be able to adequately remediate existing deficiencies in disclosure controls and not have deficiencies when we report on internal controls. Although we believe that these corrective steps will enable management to conclude that our disclosure controls are effective and these measures will remediate the significant deficiencies discussed above when all of the additional financial staff positions are filled and other remediation plans are implemented, we cannot assure you that this will be sufficient. Also, as we hire more experienced staff and advisors, additional deficiencies may be identified that will need to be remediated. These additional deficiencies may also have caused our historical financial results to be incorrect, which, if material, could require a restatement. As a result, we may be required to expend additional resources to identify, assess and correct any additional weaknesses in disclosure or internal control and to otherwise comply with the internal controls rules under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, when applicable. We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, as a result, our investors’ sole source of gain, if any, will depend on capital appreciation, if any. We do not plan to declare or pay any cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future and currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. As a result, investors should not rely on an investment in our securities if they require the investment to produce dividend income. Capital appreciation, if any, of our shares may be investors’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Moreover, investors may not be able to resell their shares of the Company at or above the price they paid for them. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 