Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors that could adversely affect our ability to obtain favorable results and maintain or increase stockholder value include, among other things: We are a newly formed, development stage company with a limited operating history and no revenues from operations, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed development stage company with limited operating results. Because we lack an established operating history, you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing a business combination with one or more target businesses. We have no definitive agreement with any prospective target businesses concerning a business combination and may be unable to complete a business combination. We will not generate any revenues from operations until after completing a business combination. If we spend the $4.5 million released to us to fund our working capital requirements in seeking a business combination but fail to complete such a combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case, we would be forced to liquidate. We must complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of the business combination (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $19.5 million) by November 16, 2009. If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, we will be forced to liquidate our assets. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline. 13 Table of Contents If we liquidate before consummating a business combination, our public stockholders may receive less than $8.00 per share on distribution of trust account funds and our warrants will expire worthless. We believe that in the event of liquidation, and taking into account interest on the trust net of taxes, the per-share liquidation price (“Liquidation Price”) may be higher than $8.00. However, if we are unable to complete a business combination and must liquidate our assets, then the Liquidation Price, taking into account interest, may be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses, the planned costs of seeking a business combination, and the potential for third party claims discussed below. Furthermore, our outstanding warrants are not entitled to participate in a liquidating distribution and the warrants will therefore expire worthless if we liquidate before completing a business combination. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our public offering are intended to be used to consummate a business combination, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies, such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to those rules, including Rule 419, our units are tradable and we have a longer period of time to consummate a business combination in certain circumstances and with fewer investor protections than we would if we were subject to Rule 419. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the Liquidation Price received by you could be reduced. Our placing of funds in trust may not fully protect those funds from third party claims against us. Pursuant to Delaware General Corporation Law Sections 280 and 281, upon our dissolution we will be required to pay or make reasonable provision to pay all of our claims and obligations, including all contingent, conditional, or unmatured claims. These amounts must be paid or provided for before we make any distributions to our stockholders. While we intend to pay such amounts, if any, from the interest on the trust account available to us for working capital, we cannot assure you those funds will be sufficient to cover such claims and obligations. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or if executed, that such waivers will be enforceable or otherwise prevent them from making claims against the trust account. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and, as a result, the actual Liquidation Price could be less than the Liquidation Price based upon the proceeds of our initial public offering and the concurrent private placement of the Sponsor Warrants placed in the trust account, without taking into account interest earned on the trust account subsequent to our initial public offering, due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate, Mr. Heckmann will be personally liable for ensuring that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of any third party if such third party does not execute a waiver of its rights, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to the trust account, but only to the extent any claims made against the trust account and the payment of such debts or obligations actually reduces the amount in the trust account. However, we cannot assure you that Mr. Heckmann will be able to satisfy those obligations. Since we are industry agnostic respecting our target business search, you cannot currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry in which we may ultimately operate. We intend to consummate a business combination with a company in any industry or geography we choose that we believe will provide significant opportunities for growth. We are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business or businesses with which we may ultimately enter into a business combination. Although we will evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risks present in that target business. Even if we properly assess those risks, some of them may be outside of our control. We also cannot assure you that your investment in our company will not ultimately prove to be less favorable than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. Except for the limitation that our initial business combination will have a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding the amount held in the trust account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount) at the time of the acquisition, we have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. 14 Table of Contents Because we may acquire a company that has sales or operations outside of the United States, we may be subject to various risks of operating in foreign jurisdictions If we acquire a company that has sales or operations outside the United States, we could be exposed to risks that negatively impact our future sales or profitability following a business combination, including: • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • government instability; • different or inadequate banking systems; • currency fluctuations; • foreign exchange controls; • restrictions on the repatriation of profits or payment of dividends; or • nationalization or expropriation of property. Our founders may have a conflict of interest in deciding if a particular target business is a good candidate for a business combination. Our founders have agreed to waive their right to receive distributions with respect to the shares underlying their 13,530,000 units. In the event we dissolve and liquidate because we fail to complete a business combination, the shares and warrants owned by our founders will be worthless, resulting in potentially significant losses for our founders. Our founders’ desire to avoid rendering their securities worthless may result in a conflict of interest when they determine whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interests, and the conflict of interest will increase as we approach the November 16, 2009 deadline. We may issue shares of our capital stock, including through convertible debt securities, to consummate a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 250,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share. As of December 31, 2007, there are 107,706,400 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants) and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no current commitments we may be required to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to consummate a business combination. Issuing additional shares of our common stock or any of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; • may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and warrants. 15 Table of Contents In addition, we may incur substantial debt to complete a business combination. Incurring debt could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding; • our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; • using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; • increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and • other disadvantages compared to our competitors who may have less debt. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution conducted in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after we liquidate; therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan of distribution that will reasonably provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (1) all existing claims including those that are contingent, (2) all pending proceedings to which we are a party and (3) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the only likely claims to arise would be from our vendors that we engage after the closing of our initial public offering (such as accountants, lawyers, investment bankers, etc.) and potential target businesses. If our plan of distribution complies with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share or the amount distributed to the stockholder. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of the date of distribution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. 16 Table of Contents Our initial stockholders currently control us and may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Heckmann Enterprises, Inc., and our initial stockholders own approximately 13,530,000 of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, 13,530,000 warrants underlying those shares, and 7,000,000 Sponsor Warrants. Ownership of common stock combined with additional potential share ownership from exercising warrants, could allow Mr. Heckmann, along with the other initial stockholders, to further influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after completion of our initial business combination. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each of which generally serves for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of a business combination. If there is an annual meeting of stockholders, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial stockholders will have considerable influence on the outcome of that election. Accordingly, our initial stockholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. In addition, our initial stockholders and their affiliates are not prohibited from purchasing our common stock in the aftermarket. If they do so, our initial stockholders will have a greater influence on the vote taken in connection with a business combination. Heckmann Enterprises, Inc., and our initial stockholders have agreed that any common stock they acquire in or after our initial public offering will be voted in favor of a business combination presented to our public stockholders. The officers and directors of any acquired company may resign upon consummation of a business combination. The role of an acquired company’s key personnel upon the consummation of a business combination cannot be ascertained at this time. Although we contemplate that certain members of an acquired company’s management team will remain associated with the combined company following a business combination, it is possible that members of the management of an acquired company will not wish to remain in place. If not, then we will be unable to rely on the experience of the target’s management team, and the results of the combined company may suffer. 17 Table of Contents We will have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business in connection with evaluating the desirability of effecting a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of management will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company and the securities laws, which could increase the time and resources we must expend to assist them in becoming familiar with the complex disclosure and financial reporting requirements imposed on U.S. public companies. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues that may adversely affect our operations. Our Chief Executive Officer and directors may have future conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Neither Mr. Heckmann nor our directors have been or currently are a principal of, or affiliated or associated with, any other special purpose acquisition company. Mr. Heckmann has expressed his full time commitment to our success, but the amount of time that he will devote in any period will vary based on many factors, including whether a target acquisition has been selected and the stage of the acquisition process we are in. However, all of our directors currently are, and our officers may in the future become, affiliated with additional entities which may be engaged in activities similar to those we intend to conduct. Additionally, Mr. Heckmann and our directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties or other contractual obligations. Accordingly, Mr. Heckmann and our directors may have a conflict of interest in determining when a particular business opportunity will be presented to us and when it will be presented to such other entity. Our resources could be wasted in researching failed acquisitions which could adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. We anticipate that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control such as 30% or more of our public stockholders voting against the business combination and opting to have us redeem their stock for a pro rata share of the trust account even if a majority of our stockholders approve the business combination. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. Because our pre-IPO shares are prohibited from participating in any liquidation distribution, our founders may have a conflict of interest in deciding if a particular target business is a good candidate for a business combination. Our initial stockholders have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to the shares of common stock purchased by them before our initial public offering if we liquidate because we fail to complete a business combination. The personal and financial interests of Messrs. Heckmann, Holtz, Osborne and Quayle may influence their identification and selection of a target business, and may affect how or when we complete a business combination. The exercise of discretion by Messrs. Heckmann, Holtz, Osborne and Quayle in identifying and selecting one or more suitable target businesses may result in a conflict of interest when they decide if the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. 18 Table of Contents Our future operations may depend on a single business in a single non-diverse industry. The net proceeds from our initial public offering, exercise of the over-allotment, and the private placement of the Sponsor Warrants provided us with approximately $428.1 million dollars that we may use to complete a business combination. Our initial business combination must be with a target business or businesses with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such business combination (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $19.5 million). We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. Additionally, we may encounter numerous logistical issues if we pursue multiple target businesses, including the difficulty of coordinating the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings. We may also be exposed to the risk that our inability to satisfy conditions to closing with one or more target businesses would reduce the fair market value of the remaining target businesses in the combination below the required threshold of 80% of our net assets (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $19.5 million). Due to these added risks, it is likely we will complete our initial business combination with one target business using the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of the Sponsor Warrants. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may depend solely on the performance of a single business. If this occurs, our operations will be highly concentrated and we will be exposed to higher risk than other entities that have the resources to complete several business combinations, or that operate in diversified industries or industry segments. If inadequate due diligence investigation of a target business requires subsequent write-offs that impair our financial condition and stock price, then you could lose some or all of your investment. In order to meet our disclosure and financial reporting obligations under the federal securities laws, and in order to develop and seek to execute strategic plans for how we can increase the revenues and/or profitability of a target business, realize operating synergies or capitalize on market opportunities, we must conduct a due diligence investigation of one or more target businesses. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business, we cannot assure you that this diligence will identify all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If we fail to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. We are depending on limited funds to conduct our search for a target business and to complete our initial business combination. We currently estimate that the $4.5 million of interest earned on the trust account that has been released to us to cover our operating expenses will be sufficient to allow us to operate for at least 24 months, after the closing of our initial public offering, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to get additional financing and that could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. We believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of Sponsor Warrants are sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete a business combination or that we will have sufficient capital to complete a combination with a particular target business. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement of the Sponsor Warrants are not sufficient to facilitate a particular business combination because: • of the size of the target business; • of the depletion of offering proceeds not in trust or available to us from interest earned on the trust account balance that is expended in search of a target business; or • we must convert into cash a significant number of shares of common stock owned by stockholders who elect to exercise their conversion rights and we had anticipated using such cash to consummate the business combination, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If additional financing is unavailable to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure or abandon the combination and seek an alternative target business. If we fail to secure such financing, this failure could have a material adverse effect on the operations or growth of the target business. Neither our management team nor any other party is required to provide any financing to us in connection with, or following, a business combination. Our outstanding warrants may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. The units sold in our initial public offering included warrants to purchase 54,116,800 shares of common stock. We also sold a total of 7,000,000 Sponsor Warrants to purchase shares of our common stock to our initial stockholders. If we issue common stock to consummate a business combination, the potential issuance of additional shares of common stock on exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to some target businesses. This is because exercise of the warrants will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Our warrants may make it more difficult to complete a business combination or increase the purchase price sought by one or more target businesses. Additionally, the sale or possibility of sale of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock or our units, or on our ability to obtain other financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If we are unable to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock underlying our warrants, our warrants may have little or no value and the market for our warrants may be limited. Our warrants are not exercisable unless, at the time of exercise, a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is available and the common stock underlying the warrants has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holders of our warrants. Under the terms of the warrant agreement between American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us, we have agreed to use our best efforts to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of our warrants until the expiration of our warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise. In addition, the warrant agreement provides that under no circumstances will we be required to net cash settle the exercise of the warrants. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not current or if the common stock is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, our warrants may not be exercisable before they expire. Thus, our warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for our warrants may be limited and a purchaser of a unit may pay the full unit purchase price solely for the shares underlying the unit (since the warrants may expire worthless). 20 Table of Contents Sponsor Warrants have a superior exercise right to warrants received in our initial public offering. The Sponsor Warrants held by our initial stockholders may be exercised pursuant to an exemption to the requirement that the securities underlying such warrants be registered pursuant to an effective registration statement. Therefore, the Sponsor Warrants may be exercised whether or not a current registration statement is in place. The warrants issued in our initial public offering were not issued under this exemption and therefore they may only be exercised if a current registration statement is in place. The Company is required only to use its best efforts to maintain a current registration statement; therefore, the warrants issued in our initial public offering may expire worthless. The grant of registration rights to our initial stockholders may make it more difficult to complete a business combination, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our initial stockholders can demand that we register the resale of their securities at any time commencing three months prior to the date on which their securities are released from escrow. In addition, our initial stockholders can demand that we register the Sponsor Warrants and the underlying shares of common stock that they will hold at any time after such warrants become exercisable by their terms. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights in full, there will then be an additional 13,530,000 shares of common stock (net of redemption) and 7,000,000 shares of common stock issued on exercise of the Sponsor Warrants, respectively, that are eligible for trading in the public market. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make a business combination more costly or difficult to conclude. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we must meet burdensome compliance requirements and restrictions on our activities may increase the difficulty of completing a business combination. We do not believe that our planned principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. In this regard, our agreement with the trustee states that proceeds in the trust account will only be invested in “government securities” (as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940) and one or more money market funds, selected by us, which invest principally in either short-term securities issued or guaranteed by the United States having a rating in the highest investment category granted thereby by a recognized credit rating agency at the time of acquisition or tax exempt municipal bonds issued by governmental entities located within the United States and otherwise meeting the conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. This investment restriction is intended to facilitate our not being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. However, if we are deemed to be subject to that act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would increase our operating expenses and could make a business combination more difficult to complete. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to successfully consummate a business combination and to be successful thereafter will largely depend upon the efforts of our directors and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Heckmann. The loss of Mr. Heckmann could affect our ability to operate. Our ability to successfully consummate a business combination is largely dependent upon the efforts of our Chief Executive Officer and directors, especially Mr. Heckmann, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. We have not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Heckmann, nor have we obtained “key man” life insurance. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of Mr. Heckmann. We cannot assure you that Mr. Heckmann will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. In addition, though Mr. Heckmann has expressed his full time commitment to our success, he is not required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, he may have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence. The loss of the services of Mr. Heckmann or any other of our directors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully achieve our business objectives, including seeking suitable target acquisitions to consummate a business combination. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial results. A target business with which we combine may do business and generate sales within other countries. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in such international operations. It is also possible that some or all of our operating expenses may be incurred in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies in those countries where we have operations against the U.S. dollar would increase our costs and could harm our results of operations and financial condition. We will not be able to complete a business combination with some prospective target businesses unless their financial statements are first reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The federal securities laws require that a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports and proxy materials submitted to stockholders. Because our initial business combination must be with a target business that has a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $19.5 million) at the time of our initial business combination, we will be required to provide historical and/or pro forma financial information to our stockholders when seeking approval of a business combination with one or more target businesses. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. If a proposed target, including one located outside of the U.S., does not have financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. GAAP and audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. We allow our public stockholders owning up to 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering to exercise their conversion rights. This high threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our founders with respect to any shares they owned prior to the consummation of our initial public offering) the right to have his, her or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and consummated. We will consummate the initial business combination only if the following conditions are met: (1) an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to permit our perpetual existence is approved by a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders, (2) a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination and (3) our public stockholders owning less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering both vote against the proposed acquisition and exercise their conversion rights. Some other blank check companies have a lower conversion threshold of 20%, which makes it more difficult for such companies to consummate their initial business combination. Therefore, because we permit a larger number of stockholders to exercise their conversion rights, it may be easier for us to consummate an initial business combination with a target business which you may believe is not suitable for us. 22 Table of Contents Our initial business combination may require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price. In such case, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise conversion rights, we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our initial business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Additionally, even if our business combination does not require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, if a significant number of stockholders exercise their conversion rights, we will have less cash available to use in furthering our business plans following a business combination and may need to arrange third party financing. We have not taken any steps to secure third party financing for either situation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such third party financing on terms favorable to us or at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 