Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business In the course of conducting our business operations, we may be exposed to a variety of risks that are inherent to the alternative asset management business. A summary of some of the significant risks that could affect our competitive positioning, financial condition and results of operations is included below. Some of these risks are managed in accordance with the Company’s established risk management policies and procedures, which are described in “Item 1. Business—Overview—Risk Management Principles and Practices.” Our business may be adversely impacted by global market, economic and geopolitical conditions that may cause fluctuations in equity prices, interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices and credit spreads. These factors can materially adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the value or performance of the investments made by our funds and by reducing the ability of our funds to raise or deploy capital, each of which could materially reduce our revenue and cash flow and materially adversely affect our financial condition. The success of our business is highly dependent upon conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world that are outside our control and difficult to predict. Factors such as interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls, and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations) can have a material negative impact on the value of our funds’ portfolio investments, which in turn would reduce our revenues and profitability. Unpredictable or unstable market conditions may result in reduced opportunities to find suitable risk-adjusted investments to deploy capital and make it more difficult to exit and realize value from our existing investments, which could materially adversely affect our ability to raise new funds and sustain our growth. In addition, during such periods, financing and merger and acquisition activity may be greatly reduced, making it harder and more competitive for asset managers to find suitable event-driven opportunities. Also, during periods of adverse economic conditions or during a tightening of global credit markets, we may have difficulty obtaining funding for additional investments at attractive rates, which would further reduce our profitability. If we fail to react appropriately to difficult market conditions, our funds could incur material losses. Recently, there have been several well publicized failures of hedge funds and other sophisticated financial institutions to properly assess or effectively mitigate their exposure to adverse conditions in the mortgage finance markets, particularly the sub-prime mortgage sector. We could suffer material adverse effects from these conditions, the overall tightening of global credit markets or other changes in market conditions. Our business and financial condition may be adversely impacted by the highly variable nature of our revenue, net income and cash flow. Since we do not earn or record meaningful incentive income or incentive compensation expense on a quarterly basis, our quarterly results are not expected to be indicative of results for a completed fiscal year, which may increase the volatility of the price of our Class A Shares. Our revenue, net income and cash flow are all highly variable, primarily due to the fact that a substantial portion of our revenues historically has been and we expect will continue to be derived from incentive income from 16 Table of Contents our funds, which is contingent on the funds’ annual performance. In addition, the investment return profiles of most of our funds are volatile. We may also experience fluctuations in our results from quarter to quarter due to a number of other factors, including changes in the values of our funds’ investments, changes in the amount of distributions, dividends or interest paid in respect of investments, changes in our operating expenses, the degree to which we encounter competition and general economic and market conditions. Such variability and unpredictability may lead to volatility in the trading price of our Class A Shares and cause our results for a particular period not to be indicative of our performance in a future period or particularly meaningful as a basis of comparison against results for a prior period. It may be difficult for us to achieve steady growth in net income and cash flow on a quarterly basis, which could in turn lead to large adverse movements in the price of our Class A Shares or increased volatility in our Class A Share price generally. The timing and receipt of incentive income generated by our funds is uncertain and will contribute to the volatility of our results. Given this uncertainty, we do not record incentive income on our interim financial statements other than incentive income actually earned during a given interim period as a result of investor redemptions during the period. Accordingly, our interim results are not indicative of the results we expect for a full fiscal year. In addition, incentive income depends on our funds’ performance and opportunities for realizing gains, which may be limited. We cannot predict when, or if, any realization of investments will occur. If we were to have a realization event in a particular quarter, it may have a significant impact on our results for that particular quarter which may not be replicated in subsequent quarters. We recognize revenue on investments in our funds based on our allocable share of realized and unrealized gains (or losses) reported by such funds, and a decline in realized or unrealized gains, or an increase in realized or unrealized losses, would materially adversely affect our revenue, which could further increase the volatility of our quarterly results. Our funds have “high-water marks” whereby we do not earn incentive income during a particular year even though the fund had a positive return in such year as a result of losses in the immediately preceding year. If a fund investor experiences losses, we will not be able to earn incentive income with respect to such investor’s investment in a fund until it surpasses the previous year’s high-water mark. The incentive income we earn is therefore dependent on the net asset value of each fund investor’s investment in the fund, which could lead to significant volatility in our quarterly results. Because our revenue, net income and cash flow can be highly variable from quarter to quarter and year to year, we do not provide any guidance regarding our expected quarterly and annual operating results. The lack of guidance may affect the expectations of public market analysts and may cause increased volatility in our Class A Share price. Competitive pressures in the asset management business could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The asset management business is intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the quality of service provided to fund investors, brand recognition and business reputation. We compete for fund investors, talent and for investment opportunities with a number of hedge funds, private equity funds, specialized funds, traditional asset managers, commercial banks, investment banks and other financial institutions. A number of factors serve to increase our competitive risks: Ÿ a number of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and more personnel than we do; Ÿ several of our competitors have recently raised, or are expected to raise, significant amounts of capital, and many of them have similar investment objectives to ours, which may create additional competition for investment opportunities and may reduce the size and duration of pricing inefficiencies that many alternative investment strategies seek to exploit; Ÿ some of our competitors have greater capital, lower targeted returns or greater sector or investment strategy specific expertise than we do, which creates competitive disadvantages with respect to investment opportunities; 17 Table of Contents Ÿ some of our competitors may also have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us, which may create competitive disadvantages for us with respect to investment opportunities; Ÿ some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and to bid more aggressively than us for investments that we may want to make; Ÿ there are relatively few barriers to entry impeding the creation of new funds, including a relatively low cost of entering this business, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our business, including former “star” portfolio managers at large diversified financial institutions, major commercial and investment banks and other financial institutions, have resulted in increased competition; Ÿ some investors may prefer to invest with an investment manager that is not publicly-traded; Ÿ investors may develop concerns that we will allow our business to grow to the detriment of fund performance; and Ÿ other industry participants will from time to time seek to recruit our investment professionals and other employees away from us. We may lose investment opportunities in the future if we do not match investment prices, structures and terms offered by competitors. Alternatively, we may experience decreased rates of return and increased risks of loss if we match investment prices, structures and terms offered by competitors. In addition, changes in the global capital markets could diminish the attractiveness of our funds relative to investments in other investment products. This competitive pressure could materially adversely affect our ability to make successful investments and limit our ability to raise future funds, either of which would materially adversely impact our business, revenue, results of operations and cash flow. Over the past several years, the size and number of hedge funds and private equity funds has continued to increase. We expect this trend to continue and, thus, if our performance is not consistently above the performance of our competitors, it will become increasingly difficult for our funds to raise capital and continue to achieve growth. More significantly, the allocation of increasing amounts of capital to alternative investment strategies by institutional and individual investors may lead to a reduction in profitable investment opportunities, including by driving prices for investments higher and increasing the difficulty of achieving consistent, positive returns. Competition for investors is based on a variety of factors, including: Ÿ investment performance; Ÿ investor perception of investment managers’ ability, drive, focus and alignment of interest with them; Ÿ quality of service provided to and duration of relationship with investors; Ÿ business reputation; and Ÿ level of fees, incentive income and expenses charged for services. These and other factors could reduce our earnings and revenues and materially adversely affect our business. In addition, if we are forced to compete with other alternative asset managers on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current management fee and incentive income structures, which drive our revenue and earnings. We have historically competed for investors primarily on the performance of our funds, and not on the level of our fees or incentive income relative to those of our competitors. However, as the alternative asset management sector matures, there is a risk that fees and incentive income will decline, without regard to the historical performance of a manager. Fee or incentive income reductions on existing or future funds, without corresponding decreases in our cost structure, could materially adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our business and financial condition may be adversely impacted by the loss of any of our key partners, particularly our founder Daniel Och. The success of our business depends on the efforts, judgment and personal reputations of our key partners, particularly our founder, Daniel Och, and other members of our senior management team, including Joel Frank, 18 Table of Contents David Windreich, Michael Cohen, Zoltan Varga and Harold Kelly. Our key partners’ reputations, expertise in investing, relationships with investors in our funds and relationships with third parties on whom our funds depend for investment opportunities and financing are each critical elements in operating and expanding our business. The loss of any of these individuals could harm our business and jeopardize our relationships with our fund investors and members of the business community. We believe our performance is highly correlated to the performance of these individuals. Accordingly, the retention of our key partners is crucial to our success, but none of them is obligated to remain actively involved with us. In addition, if any of our key partners were to join or form a competitor, some of our fund investors could choose to invest with that competitor rather than in our funds. The loss of the services of any of our key partners would have a material adverse effect on us, including our ability to retain and attract investors and raise new funds, and the performance of our funds. We do not carry any “key man” insurance that would provide us with proceeds in the event of the death or disability of any of our key partners. Our ability to retain our professionals is critical to our success and our ability to grow depends on our ability to attract additional partners and managing directors. Our most important asset is our people, and our continued success is highly dependent upon the efforts of all of our partners and managing directors. Our future success and growth depend to a substantial degree on our ability to retain and motivate our partners and other key personnel and to strategically recruit, retain and motivate new talent, including new partners and managing directors. However, we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit, retain and motivate the required personnel as the market for qualified investment professionals is extremely competitive. Historically, we have compensated our partners through distributions on their interests in our business and our managing directors through profit participation payments. As we grow our business as a public company, we may not be able to provide future partners with equity interests in our business to the same extent or with the same tax consequences as our partners. Therefore, in order to recruit and retain existing and future partners, we will need to maintain a flexible compensation program, including the ability to make cash income allocations to them and issue equity or other interests in our business including, without limitation, Class C Non-Equity Interests, with respect to which the Chairman of our Partner Management Committee, a committee of seven partners of each Och-Ziff Operating Group entity (or, in the event there is no Chairman, the full Partner Management Committee by majority vote) in conjunction with the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors will have the authority to declare distributions. As a result, our total compensation and benefits expense would increase and would adversely affect our profitability, and our cash available for distribution to the holders of the equity interests in our business would be reduced. In addition, any issuances of equity interests in our business to current or future personnel would dilute Class A shareholders. Our investment professionals possess substantial experience and expertise in investing, are responsible for locating and executing our funds’ investments, have significant relationships with the institutions which are the source of many of our funds’ investment opportunities, and in certain cases have strong relationships with our fund investors. Therefore, if our investment professionals join competitors or form competing companies it could result in the loss of significant investment opportunities and certain existing investors. As a result, the loss of even a small number of our investment professionals could jeopardize the performance of our funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operating group limited partnership agreements provide that the Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units held by our partners are subject to vesting and forfeiture conditions. The Class A restricted share units that were awarded to our managing directors in connection with the IPO are subject to certain vesting requirements. Further, all of our partners and managing directors are subject to certain restrictions with respect to competing with us, soliciting our employees and fund investors and disclosing confidential information about our business. However, these requirements and restrictions lapse over time, may not be enforceable in all cases and can be waived by us at any time. There is no guarantee that these requirements and agreements or the forfeiture provisions of the operating group limited partnership agreements will prevent any of these professionals from leaving us, joining our competitors or otherwise competing with us. Any of these events could have a material adverse affect on our business. 19 Table of Contents Each of our funds has special withdrawal provisions pursuant to which the failure of Daniel Och to be actively involved in the business provides investors with the right to redeem from the funds. The loss of the services of Daniel Och would have a material adverse effect on each of our funds and on us. Investors in each of our funds are generally given a one-time special redemption right (not subject to redemption fees) if Daniel Och dies or ceases to perform his duties with respect to the fund for 90 consecutive days or otherwise ceases to be involved in the activities of the Och-Ziff Operating Group. The death or inability of Mr. Och to perform his duties with respect to any of our funds for 90 consecutive days, or termination of Mr. Och’s involvement in the activities of the Och-Ziff Operating Group for any reason, could result in substantial redemption requests from investors in each of our funds. Any such event would have a direct material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings, and would likely harm our ability to maintain or grow assets under management in existing funds or raise additional funds in the future. Such withdrawals could lead possibly to a liquidation of our funds and a corresponding elimination of our management fees and potential to earn incentive income. The loss of Mr. Och could, therefore, ultimately result in a loss of substantially all of our revenues and earnings. We have experienced rapid growth, which may be difficult to sustain and which may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources. Our assets under management have grown from approximately $5.8 billion as of December 31, 2002 to $33.4 billion as of December 31, 2007. Our rapid growth has caused, and if it continues will continue to cause, significant demands on our legal, accounting and operational infrastructure, and increased expenses. The complexity of these demands, and the expense required to address them, is a function not simply of the amount by which our assets under management have grown, but of significant differences in the investing strategies employed within our funds. In addition, we are required to continuously develop our systems and infrastructure in response to the increasing sophistication of the investment management market and legal, accounting and regulatory developments. Our future growth will depend on, among other things, our ability to maintain an operating platform and management system sufficient to address our growth and will require us to incur significant additional expenses and to commit additional senior management and operational resources. As a result, we face significant challenges: Ÿ in maintaining adequate financial and business controls; Ÿ in implementing new or updated information and financial systems and procedures; and Ÿ in training, managing and appropriately sizing our work force and other components of our business on a timely and cost-effective basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or that we will be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could materially adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses. Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in losses or limit our growth. We rely heavily on our financial, accounting, trading and other data processing systems to, among other things, execute, confirm, settle and record transactions across markets and geographies in a time-sensitive, efficient and accurate manner. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to our funds, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. In addition, we operate a business that is highly dependent on information systems and technology. Our information systems and technology may not continue to be able to accommodate our growth, and the cost of maintaining such systems may increase from its current level. Such a failure to accommodate growth, or an increase in costs related to such information systems, could have a material adverse effect on us. We utilize our headquarters in New York City, where most of our personnel are located, for the continued operation of our business. We have taken precautions to limit the impact that a disruption to our New York 20 Table of Contents headquarters could cause (for example, by ensuring our London office can operate independently of our other offices and establishing a SunGard “hot site” located in New Jersey, from which we could run our operations). Although these precautions have been taken, a disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business, including a disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, or directly affecting our headquarters, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. Our disaster recovery programs may not be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses, if at all. Finally, although we perform and back-up all key functions of our business, including portfolio valuation, internally, we rely on third-party service providers for certain aspects of our business, including for certain information systems and technology and administration of our funds. Severe interruptions or deteriorations in the performance of these third parties or failures of their information systems and technology could impair the quality of the funds’ operations and could impact our reputation and hence materially adversely affect our business. The historical financial information included in this annual report is not necessarily indicative of our future performance or of cash available for distribution. The historical combined financial information included in this annual report is not necessarily indicative of our future financial results, and distributions to our founding owners in prior periods are not necessarily indicative of amounts that will be available for future distributions. Our historical combined financial information consolidates a large number of our funds which have not been consolidated since our IPO, as described further under “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Understanding Our Results—Consolidation of Och-Ziff Funds.” In addition, the historical combined financial information included in this annual report does not reflect the added costs, including taxes, that we expect to incur as a public company or the impact of our Reorganization. In addition, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant compensation expense associated with the vesting of the Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units issued to our partners and Class A restricted share units issued to our managing directors, other employees, and independent members of our Board of Directors in connection with and subsequent to the IPO. We have also incurred significant charges in respect of the purchase of Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units from our founding owners in connection with the IPO and the term loan distributions. As a result of these expenses, we expect to report losses on our GAAP financial statements during future periods. Our future financial statements are also likely to be materially different as a result of: Ÿ the deconsolidation of most of our funds; Ÿ interest expense associated with borrowings of $750 million under our term loan; Ÿ the reclassification of the Ziff profit sharing interest and the interests of our partners other than Mr. Och to common equity interests in our business; Ÿ the impact of the transactions that occurred in connection with the IPO, including the impact of the tax receivable agreement and an increase in our tax expense and our effective tax rate as a result of Och-Ziff Corp being taxable as a corporation, and the incremental expenses we will incur as a result of being a publicly-traded company; Ÿ fund performance in the future which differs from the historical performance reflected in our historical financial information; and Ÿ the pace of growth of our business in the future, including the formation of new funds, which differs from the historical growth reflected in our historical financial information. As a result of the foregoing, the historical financial information presented in this annual report, including with respect to distributions to holders, is not necessarily indicative of future performance. 21 Table of Contents The requirements of being a public entity and sustaining our growth may strain our resources. As a public entity, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and requirements of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition and operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, which is discussed below. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, significant resources and management oversight will be required. We are implementing additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. In addition, sustaining our growth will also require us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources to identify new professionals to join our Company and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. These activities may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We expect to incur significant additional annual expenses related to these steps and, among other things, additional directors and officers liability insurance, director fees, reporting requirements of the SEC and other regulators, transfer agent fees, hiring additional accounting, legal and administrative personnel, increased auditing and legal fees and similar expenses. We are subject to third-party litigation risk which could result in significant liabilities and reputational harm which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In general, we will be exposed to risk of litigation by our fund investors if our management of any fund is alleged to constitute negligence or dishonesty. Investors could sue us to recover amounts lost by our funds due to our alleged misconduct, up to the entire amount of loss. Furthermore, we may be subject to litigation arising from investor dissatisfaction with the performance of our funds or from allegations that we improperly exercised control or influence over companies in which our funds have large investments. In addition, we are exposed to risks of litigation or investigation relating to transactions which presented conflicts of interest that were not properly addressed. In such actions we would be obligated to bear legal, settlement and other costs (which may be in excess of any available insurance coverage). In addition, although we are indemnified by our funds, our rights to indemnification may be challenged. If we are required to incur all or a portion of the costs arising out of litigation or investigations as a result of inadequate insurance proceeds, if any or failure to obtain indemnification from our funds, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity would be materially adversely affected. In our funds, we are exposed to the risk of litigation if the funds suffer catastrophic losses due to the failure of a particular investment strategy or due to the trading activity of an employee who has violated market rules or regulations. Any litigation arising in such circumstances is likely to be protracted, expensive and surrounded by circumstances which are materially damaging to our reputation and our business. In addition, we face the risk of litigation from investors in our funds if we violate restrictions in such funds’ organizational documents (for example, by failing to adhere to the limits we have to set on maximum exposure by a fund to a single investment). Certain of our funds are incorporated or formed under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Cayman Islands laws, particularly with respect to shareholders rights, partner rights and bankruptcy, differ from the laws of the United States and could change, possibly to the detriment of our funds and investment management subsidiaries. In addition, with partners who own a significant portion of our equity interests and with a workforce consisting of many very highly-paid investment professionals, we face the risk of lawsuits relating to claims with respect to such equity interests and with respect to compensation, which may individually or in the aggregate be significant in amount. The cost of settling such claims could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Our internal control over financial reporting does not currently meet all of the standards contemplated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and price of our Class A Shares. Beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules will require our management to conduct annual assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and require a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments, as well as an independent audit of our internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting does not currently meet all of the standards contemplated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In particular, we have not yet established and adopted all of the formal policies, processes and practices related to financial reporting that will be necessary to comply with Section 404. Such policies, processes and practices are important to ensure the identification of key financial reporting risks, assessment of their potential impact and linkage of those risks to specific areas and activities within our organization. In order to achieve compliance with Section 404 by our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, we are in the process of documenting our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404. However, we have not completed documentation of our internal controls or testing of our internal controls in accordance with Section 404. We are required to complete our initial assessment in a timely manner. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to our assessment concerning the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Any such event could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business, and lead to a decline in the price of our Class A Shares. Extensive regulation of our business affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. Our reputation, business and operations could be materially affected by regulatory issues. Our business is subject to extensive regulation. We are subject to regulation, including periodic examinations, by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. The SEC oversees our activities as a registered investment adviser under the Advisers Act. We are also subject to regulation under the Exchange Act and the Securities Act and various other statutes. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Department of Labor under ERISA. In the United Kingdom, we are subject to regulation by the U.K. Financial Services Authority. Our Asian operations, and our investment activities around the globe, are subject to a variety of regulatory regimes that vary country by country, including the Financial Services Agency in Japan, the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong and the Securities and Exchange Board of India. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has the authority to grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on our business and to conduct investigations and administrative proceedings. Such investigations can result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including censure, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer or investment adviser from registration or memberships. For example, a failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Advisers Act, including record-keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, or a failure to maintain our funds’ exemption from compliance with the 1940 Act could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage. Our funds are involved regularly in trading activities which implicate a broad number of U.S. and foreign securities law regimes, including laws governing trading on inside information, market manipulation and a broad number of technical trading requirements that implicate fundamental market regulation policies. Even if an investigation or proceeding did not result in a sanction or the sanction imposed against us or our personnel by a regulator were small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity relating to the investigation, proceeding or imposition of these sanctions could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing investors or fail to gain new investors. 23 Table of Contents In addition, we regularly rely on exemptions from various requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and ERISA in conducting our asset management activities. These exemptions are sometimes highly complex and may in certain circumstances depend on compliance by third parties whom we do not control. If for any reason these exemptions were to become unavailable to us, we could become subject to regulatory action or third-party claims and our business could be materially and adversely affected. See “—Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure—If we are deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our business would be subject to applicable restrictions under that Act, which could make it impracticable for us to continue our business as contemplated and would have a material adverse impact on the market price of our Class A Shares.” The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed primarily to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in our funds and are not designed to protect holders of our Class A Shares. Increased regulatory focus could result in additional burdens on our business. Various factors, including recent dislocations in the financial markets, have caused investors and governmental authorities to express concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets and the adequacy of the current regulation of financial institutions, including alternative asset managers. For these and other reasons, the regulatory environment relevant to our business and to investors in our funds is subject to change in a manner that may be adverse to us and fund investors. For example, we may be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or other U.S. or non-U.S. governmental regulatory authorities, state regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets, including developments that are not directed at alternative asset managers but nevertheless affect our business and operations. We also may be materially adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. Such changes could place limitations on the types of investors that can invest in alternative investment funds or on the conditions under which such investors may invest. Furthermore, such changes may limit the scope or manner of investing activities that may be undertaken by alternative investment managers. It is not practicable to determine with meaningful specificity the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. Any such regulations could increase our costs of doing business or materially adversely affect our profitability and materially adversely affect our ability to recruit, retain and motivate our current and future professionals. Regulatory developments specifically designed to increase oversight or taxation of alternative investment funds may materially adversely affect our business. In recent years, there has been debate in U.S. and foreign governments about new rules and regulations for investment funds. Any new rules or regulations could negatively impact our ability to conduct our investment activities and thereby reduce the value of our Class A Shares. See “—Risks Related to Taxation—Members of the United States Congress have introduced legislation that would, if enacted, preclude us from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the publicly-traded partnership rules.” Our failure to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business. As we have expanded the scope of our business, we increasingly confront potential conflicts of interest relating to our funds’ investment activities. Certain of our funds have overlapping investment objectives and potential conflicts may arise with respect to our decisions regarding how to allocate investment opportunities among those funds. For example, a decision to acquire material non-public information about a company while pursuing an investment opportunity for a particular fund gives rise to a potential conflict of interest when it results in our having to restrict the ability of other funds to buy or sell securities in the public markets. In addition, investors (or holders of Class A Shares) may perceive conflicts of interest regarding investment decisions for funds in which our partners, who have and may continue to make significant personal investments, are personally invested. It is possible that actual, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to investor dissatisfaction or litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our 24 Table of Contents reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest would have a material adverse effect on our reputation which would materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including an inability to raise additional funds and a reluctance of counterparties to do business with us. Employee misconduct could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain investors and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. There is a risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that materially adversely affects our business. We are subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our asset management business and our authority over the assets managed by our asset management business. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our employees would materially adversely affect our investors and us. In addition, our business requires that we properly deal with confidential matters of great significance to companies in which we may invest. If our employees were improperly to use or disclose confidential information, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position and current and future business relationships. It is not always possible to detect or deter employee misconduct, and the extensive precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If one of our employees were to engage in misconduct or were to be accused of such misconduct, our business and our reputation could be materially adversely affected. We may enter into new businesses, make future strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We intend, to the extent that market conditions warrant, to grow our business by increasing assets under management and creating new investment platforms and businesses. Accordingly, we may pursue growth through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures, which may include entering into new lines of business, such as the broker-dealer or financial advisory industries. In addition, we expect opportunities will arise to acquire, or enter into joint ventures with, other alternative or traditional asset managers. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, enter into joint ventures, or enter into a new line of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with (i) the required investment of capital and other resources, (ii) the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk, (iii) combining or integrating operational and management systems and controls, and (iv) loss of investors in our fund due to the perception that we are no longer focusing on our core fund management duties. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. If a new business generates insufficient revenues or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations will be materially adversely affected. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. We may use substantial amounts of leverage to finance our business, which will expose us to substantial risks. Historically, we have not used any material amount of borrowings to finance our business operations. In connection with the IPO, sale of shares to DIC Sahir and Reorganization, we entered into a $750 million term loan that was used to purchase interests in our real estate business and to make distributions to our founding owners. Depending on the facts and circumstances, we may eventually use a significant amount of borrowings to finance our business operations or growth. This will expose us to the typical risks associated with the use of substantial leverage, including those discussed below under “—Risks Related to Our Funds—Dependence on significant leverage in investments by our funds could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve positive rates of return on those investments.” These risks could be exacerbated by the use of leverage by our funds to finance investments and could cause us to suffer a decline in any credit ratings assigned to us or our debt by rating agencies. Any such decline in ratings might result in an increase in borrowing costs and could otherwise adversely affect our business in a material way. In addition, as our long-term unsecured debt and committed secured credit facilities expire, or if our lenders fail, 25 Table of Contents we will need to replace them by entering into new facilities or finding other sources of liquidity, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so on attractive terms or at all, particularly in a liquidity or other market crisis. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a further discussion of our liquidity. An increase in our borrowing costs may adversely affect our earnings and liquidity. Our $750 million term loan will mature in July 2012, at which time we will be required to either refinance it by entering into new facilities, which could result in higher borrowing costs, or issuing equity, which would dilute existing shareholders. We could also repay the term loan by using cash on hand or cash from the sale of our assets. No assurance can be given that we will be able to enter into new facilities or issue equity in the future on attractive terms, or at all. Our term loan is a LIBOR-based floating-rate obligation and the interest expense we incur varies with changes in the applicable LIBOR reference rate. See “Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk,” for additional information regarding the impact that a change in LIBOR would have on our annual interest expense associated with this term loan. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future to finance our operations. An increase in interest rates would adversely affect the market value of any fixed-rate debt investments and/or subject them to prepayment or extension risk, which may adversely affect our earnings and liquidity. Risks Related to Our Funds Our results of operations are dependent on the performance of our funds. Poor fund performance will result in reduced revenues and earnings. Poor performance of our funds will make it difficult for us to retain or attract investors to our funds and to grow our business. The performance of each fund we manage is subject to some or all of the following risks. The historical returns attributable to our funds should not be considered as indicative of the future results of our funds or of our future results or of any returns expected on an investment in our Class A Shares. We have presented in this annual report under “Item 1. Business—Overview—Investment Performance” and elsewhere the net composite returns relating to the historical performance of our funds, and also refer to other metrics associated with historical returns, such as risk and correlation measures. The returns are relevant to us primarily insofar as they are indicative of incentive income we have been allocated in prior years. The historical and potential future returns of our funds, however, are not expected to be indicative of returns on our Class A Shares. Therefore, you should not conclude that positive performance of our funds will result in positive returns on an investment in Class A Shares. However, poor performance of our funds may cause a decline in our revenue, and would therefore have a negative effect on our performance and the returns on an investment in our Class A Shares. An investment in our Class A Shares is not an investment in any of the Och-Ziff funds. Moreover, most of our funds are not consolidated in our financial statements for periods after June 30, 2007. Moreover, with respect to the historical returns of our funds: Ÿ the historical returns of our funds should not be considered indicative of the future results that should be expected from such funds or from any future funds we may raise; Ÿ our funds’ returns have benefited from investment opportunities and general market conditions that may not repeat themselves, and there can be no assurance that our current or future funds will be able to avail themselves of profitable investment opportunities; and Ÿ the rates of return reflect our historical cost structure, which may vary in the future due to factors beyond our control, including changes in law. In addition, future returns will be affected by the applicable risks described elsewhere in this annual report, including risks of the industries and businesses in which a particular fund invests. 26 Table of Contents Poor performance of our funds would cause a decline in our revenue, income and cash flow and could materially adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. In the event that any of our funds were to perform poorly, our revenue, income and cash flow would decline because the value of our assets under management would decrease, which would result in a reduction in management fees. A decrease in our investment returns would result in a reduction in incentive income and, if such decrease was substantial, could result in the elimination of incentive income for a given year. Poor performance of our funds could make it more difficult for us to raise new capital. Investors in our funds might decline to invest in future funds we raise and investors in our funds might redeem their investments as a result of poor performance of the funds in which they are invested in favor of investments which are perceived to have lower risk or greater opportunity for returns. Investors and potential investors in our funds continually assess our funds’ performance, and our ability to raise capital for existing and future funds and avoid excessive redemption levels will depend on our funds’ continued satisfactory performance. Dependence on significant leverage in investments by our funds could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve positive rates of return on those investments. Our funds may choose to use leverage as part of their respective investment programs and regularly borrow a substantial amount of their capital either directly or through the use of derivative instruments. The use of leverage poses a significant degree of risk and enhances the possibility of a significant loss in the value of the investments in our funds. Our funds may borrow money from time to time to purchase or carry securities. The interest expense and other costs incurred in connection with such borrowing may not be recovered by appreciation in the securities purchased or carried, and will be lost—and the timing and magnitude of such losses may be accelerated or exacerbated—in the event of a decline in the market value of such securities. Volatility in the credit markets increases the degree of risk associated with such borrowing. Gains realized with borrowed funds may cause the fund’s net asset value to increase at a faster rate than would be the case without borrowings. However, if investment results fail to cover the cost of borrowings, the fund’s net asset value could also decrease faster than if there had been no borrowings. Increases in interest rates could also decrease the value of fixed-rate debt investments that our funds make. Any of the foregoing circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Third-party investors in our funds will have the right to remove us as investment manager or general partner of the funds and investors in our funds may redeem their investments. These events would lead to a decrease in our revenues, which could be substantial. The governing agreements of most of our funds provide that, subject to certain conditions, third-party investors in those funds will have the right, without cause, to vote to remove us as investment manager or general partner of the fund by a simple majority vote, resulting in the elimination of management fees and incentive income derived from those funds. In addition to having a significant negative impact on our revenue, net income and cash flow, the occurrence of such an event with respect to any of our funds would likely result in significant reputational damage to us. Investors in our funds may also generally redeem their investments on an annual or quarterly basis following the expiration of a specified period of time when capital may not be redeemed (typically between five and nine fiscal quarters), subject to the applicable fund’s specific redemption provisions. In a declining market, the pace of redemptions and consequent reduction in our assets under management could accelerate. The decrease in revenues that would result from significant redemptions in our funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, net income and cash flows. The due diligence process that we undertake in connection with investments by our funds may not reveal all facts that may be relevant in connection with making an investment. Before making investments, particularly investments in securities that are not publicly-traded, we conduct due diligence that we deem reasonable and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances applicable to each 27 Table of Contents investment. When conducting due diligence, we may be required to evaluate important and complex business, financial, tax, accounting, environmental and legal issues. Outside consultants, legal advisors, accountants and investment banks may be involved in the due diligence process in varying degrees depending on the type of investment. Nevertheless, when conducting due diligence and making an assessment regarding an investment, we rely on the resources available to us, including information provided by the target of the investment and, in some circumstances, third-party investigations. The due diligence investigation that we will carry out with respect to any investment opportunity may not reveal or highlight all relevant facts that may be necessary or helpful in evaluating such investment opportunity. Moreover, such an investigation will not necessarily result in the investment being successful. Our funds invest in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets, and we may fail to realize any profits from these activities for a considerable period of time or lose some or all of our principal investments. Our funds invest in securities that are not publicly-traded. In many cases, our funds may be prohibited by contract or by applicable securities laws from selling such securities for a period of time. Our funds will generally not be able to sell these securities publicly unless their sale is registered under applicable securities laws, or unless an exemption from such registration is available. The ability of many of our funds to dispose of such investments is heavily dependent on the public equity markets. Even if the securities are publicly-traded, large holdings of securities can often be disposed of only over a substantial length of time, exposing the investment returns to risks of downward movement in market prices during the required holding period. Accordingly, under certain conditions, our funds may be forced to either sell securities at lower prices than they had expected to realize or defer—potentially for a considerable period of time—sales that they had planned to make. Contributing capital to these investments is risky, and we may lose some or all of the principal amount of such investments. Valuation methodologies for certain assets in our funds can be subject to significant subjectivity and the values of assets established pursuant to such methodologies may never be realized, which could result in significant losses for our funds. There are no readily ascertainable market prices for a large number of the illiquid investments in our funds. The value of the investments of our funds is determined periodically by us based on the fair value of such investments. The fair value of investments is determined using a number of methodologies described in the funds’ valuation policies. These policies are based on a number of factors, including the nature of the investment, the expected cash flows from the investment, bid or ask prices provided by third parties for the investment, the length of time the investment has been held, the trading price of securities (in the case of publicly-traded securities), restrictions on transfer and other recognized valuation methodologies. The methodologies we use in valuing individual investments are based on a variety of estimates and assumptions specific to the particular investments, and actual results related to the investment may vary materially as a result of the inaccuracy of such assumptions or estimates. These valuation methodologies can involve a significant degree of management judgment. In addition, because the illiquid investments held by our funds may be in industries or sectors which are unstable, in distress, or undergoing some uncertainty, such investments are subject to rapid changes in value caused by sudden company-specific or industry-wide developments. Because there is significant uncertainty in the valuation of or in the stability of the value of illiquid investments, the fair values of such investments as reflected in a fund’s net asset value do not necessarily reflect the prices that would actually be obtained when such investments are sold. Realizations at values significantly lower than the values at which investments have been reflected in fund net asset values would result in losses for the applicable fund, a decline in asset management fees and the loss of potential incentive income. Also, a situation where asset values turn out to be materially different from values reflected in fund net asset values will cause investors to lose confidence in us which may, in turn, result in redemptions from our funds or difficulties in our ability to raise additional capital. Our funds make investments in companies that we do not control. Investments by all of our funds will include investments in debt or equity of companies that we do not control. Such investments may be acquired by our funds through trading activities or through purchases of securities from the 28 Table of Contents issuer. Those investments will be subject to the risk that the company in which the investment is made may make business, financial or management decisions with which we do not agree or that the majority stakeholders or the management of the company may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve our interests. In addition, we may make investments in which we share control over the investment with co-investors, which may make it more difficult for us to implement our investment approach or exit the investment when we otherwise would. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the values of investments by our funds could decrease and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could suffer as a result. We expect our funds to make investments in companies that are based outside of the United States, which may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in companies that are based in the United States. All of our funds generally invest a significant portion of their assets in the equity, debt, loans or other securities of issuers located outside the United States. Investments in non-U.S. securities involve certain factors not typically associated with investing in U.S. securities, including risks relating to: Ÿ currency exchange matters, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates and costs associated with conversion of investment principal and income from one currency into another; Ÿ less developed or efficient financial markets than in the United States, which may lead to potential price volatility and relative illiquidity; Ÿ the absence of uniform accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards, practices and disclosure requirements and less government supervision and regulation; Ÿ differences in the legal and regulatory environment; Ÿ difficulties in enforcing contracts and filing claims under foreign legal systems; Ÿ less publicly available information in respect of companies in non-U.S. markets; Ÿ certain economic and political risks, including potential exchange control regulations and restrictions on our non-U.S. investments and repatriation of profits on investments or of capital invested, the risks of political, economic or social instability, the possibility of expropriation or confiscatory taxation and adverse economic and political developments; and Ÿ the possible imposition of non-U.S. taxes or withholding on income and gains recognized with respect to such securities. There can be no assurance that adverse developments with respect to such risks will not materially adversely affect our funds’ investments that are held in certain countries or the returns from these investments. Risk management activities may materially adversely affect the return on our funds’ investments. When managing our funds’ exposure to market risks, the relevant fund (or one of our affiliates on behalf of the funds) may from time to time use forward contracts, options, swaps, caps, collars and floors or pursue other strategies or use other forms of derivative instruments to limit its exposure to changes in the relative values of investments that may result from market developments, including changes in prevailing interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. The success of any hedging or other derivative transactions generally will depend on our ability to correctly predict market changes, the degree of correlation between price movements of a derivative instrument, the position being hedged, and the creditworthiness of the counterparty and other factors. As a result, while we may enter into a transaction in order to reduce our exposure to market risks, the transaction may result in poorer overall investment performance than if it had not been executed. Such transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the value of a hedged position increases. Certain of our investments may be concentrated in certain asset types or in a geographic region, which could exacerbate any negative performance of those funds to the extent those concentrated investments perform poorly. The governing agreements of our funds generally contain only limited investment restrictions and only limited requirements as to diversification of fund investments, either by geographic region or asset type. During periods of 29 Table of Contents difficult market conditions or slowdowns in these regions, any decrease in revenues and difficulty in obtaining access to financing may be exacerbated by any concentration of investments, which would result in lower investment returns for our funds. Our funds’ investments are subject to numerous additional risks. Our funds’ investments are subject to numerous additional risks, including the following: Ÿ Generally, there are few limitations on the execution of our funds’ investment strategies, which are subject to the sole discretion of the investment manager or the general partner of such funds; Ÿ The funds may engage in short-selling, which is subject to the theoretically unlimited risk of loss because there is no limit on how much the price of a security may appreciate before the short position is closed out. A fund may be subject to losses if a security lender demands return of the lent securities and an alternative lending source cannot be found or if the fund is otherwise unable to borrow securities that are necessary to hedge its positions; Ÿ The funds are exposed to the risk that a counterparty will not settle a transaction in accordance with its terms and conditions because of a credit or liquidity problem or because of a dispute over the terms of the contract (whether or not bona fide), thus causing the fund to suffer a loss. Counterparty default risk has increased significantly in recent months due, in part, to the collapse of certain sectors of the mortgage financing market and the overall tightening of global credit markets, which have, in certain instances, led to material liquidity constraints. In addition, it has become increasingly apparent that the financial health and strength of even the most well-established financial intermediaries and other counterparties may be difficult to assess and verify. Counterparty risk may be further accentuated for contracts with longer maturities where events may intervene to prevent settlement, or where the fund has concentrated its transactions with a single or small group of counterparties. Generally, the funds are not restricted from dealing with any particular counterparty or from concentrating any or all of their transactions with one counterparty. Moreover, the funds’ monitoring of the creditworthiness of their counterparties may prove insufficient. The absence of a regulated market to facilitate settlement may increase the potential for losses; Ÿ Credit risk may arise through a default by one of several large institutions that are dependent on one another to meet their liquidity or operational needs, so that a default by one institution causes a series of defaults by the other institutions. This “systemic risk” may materially adversely affect the financial intermediaries (such as prime brokers, clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges) with which the funds interact on a daily basis although the Federal Reserve has recently shown a willingness to take action to prevent a systemic collapse, no assurance can be given that such actions will be taken in the future or that they will be successful in all cases; Ÿ The efficacy of investment and trading strategies depends largely on the ability to establish and maintain an overall market position in a combination of financial instruments. A fund’s trading orders may not be executed in a timely and efficient manner due to various circumstances, including systems failures or human error. In such event, the funds might only be able to acquire some but not all of the components of the position, or if the overall position were to need adjustment, the funds might not be able to make such adjustment. As a result, the funds would not be able to achieve the market position selected by the management company or general partner of such funds, and might incur a loss in liquidating their position; Ÿ The funds are subject to risks due to potential illiquidity of assets. The funds may make investments or hold trading positions in markets or entities that are volatile and which may become illiquid. Timely divestiture or sale of trading positions can be impaired by decreased trading volume, increased price volatility, concentrated trading positions, limitations on the ability to transfer positions in highly specialized or structured transactions to which they may be a party, and changes in industry and government regulations. It may be impossible or costly for the funds to liquidate positions rapidly in order to meet margin calls, withdrawal requests or otherwise, particularly if there are other market participants seeking to dispose of similar assets at the same time or the relevant market is otherwise moving against a position or in the event of trading halts or daily price movement limits on the market or otherwise; and 30 Table of Contents Ÿ Fund investments are subject to risks relating to investments in commodities, futures, options and other derivatives, the prices of which are highly volatile and may be subject to the theoretically unlimited risk of loss in certain circumstances, including if the fund writes a call option. Price movements of commodities, futures and options contracts and payments pursuant to swap agreements are influenced by, among other things, interest rates, changing supply and demand relationships, trade, fiscal, monetary and exchange control programs and policies of governments and national and international political and economic events and policies. The value of futures, options and swap agreements also depends upon the price of the securities underlying them. In addition, the funds’ assets are subject to the risk of the failure of any of the exchanges on which their positions trade or of their clearinghouses or counterparties. Most of our funds utilize distressed debt and equity restructuring investment strategies which involve significant risks and potential additional liabilities. Most of our funds invest a portion of their assets in issuers with weak financial conditions, poor operating results, substantial financial needs, negative net worth and/or special competitive problems. These funds may also invest in issuers that are involved in bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings. In such situations, it may be difficult to obtain full information as to the exact financial and operating conditions of these issuers. Furthermore, some of our funds’ distressed investments may not be widely traded or may have no recognized market. Depending on the specific fund’s investment profile, a fund’s exposure to such investments may be substantial in relation to the market for those investments and the acquired assets are likely to be illiquid and difficult to sell or transfer. As a result, it may take a number of years for the fair value of such investments to ultimately reflect their intrinsic value as perceived by us. A central strategy of our equity restructuring investing is to predict the occurrence of certain corporate events, such as debt and/or equity offerings, reorganizations, mergers, takeover offers and other transactions. If we do not accurately predict these events, the market price and value of our funds’ investment could decline sharply. In addition, these investments could subject our funds to certain potential additional liabilities that may exceed the value of their original investments. Under certain circumstances, payments or distributions on certain investments may be reclaimed if any such payment or distribution is later determined to have been a fraudulent conveyance, a preferential payment or similar transaction under applicable bankruptcy and insolvency laws. In addition, under certain circumstances, a lender that has inappropriately exercised control of the management and policies of a debtor may have its claims subordinated or disallowed, or may be found liable for damages suffered by parties as a result of such actions. In the case where the investment in securities of troubled companies is made in connection with an attempt to influence a restructuring proposal or plan of reorganization in bankruptcy, our funds may become involved in substantial litigation. If our risk management systems are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses. We continue to refine our risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods. However, our risk management techniques and strategies may not fully mitigate the risk exposure of our funds in all economic or market environments, or against all types of risk, including risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate. Some of our strategies for managing risk in our funds are based upon our use of historical market behavior statistics. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to measure and analyze the risks to which our funds are exposed. Any failures in our risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify such risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks in the funds or to seek positive, risk-adjusted returns. In addition, any risk management failures could cause fund losses to be significantly greater than the historical measures predict. Furthermore, our mathematical modeling does not take all risks into account. Our more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. See “Item 1. Business—Overview—Risk Management Principles and Practices.” We are subject to risks in using prime brokers, custodians, administrators and other agents. All of our funds depend on the services of prime brokers, custodians, administrators or other agents to carry out certain securities transactions. In the event of the insolvency of a prime broker and/or custodian, the funds might not 31 Table of Contents be able to recover equivalent assets in full as they will rank among the prime broker’s and custodian’s unsecured creditors in relation to assets which the prime broker or custodian borrows, lends or otherwise uses. In addition, the funds’ cash held with a prime broker or custodian may not be segregated from the prime broker’s or custodian’s own cash, and the funds will therefore rank as unsecured creditors in relation thereto. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Control by Mr. Och of the total combined voting power of our shares could cause or prevent us from engaging in certain transactions, which could adversely affect the market price of the Class A Shares or deprive our Class A shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium as part of a sale of our Company. Our partners control approximately 79.1% of the combined voting power of our Class A Shares and Class B Shares through their ownership of 100% of our Class B Shares. In addition, each of our partners has granted to the members of the Class B Shareholder Committee, the sole member of which is currently our founder, Mr. Och, an irrevocable proxy to vote all of such shares as it may determine in its sole discretion. This proxy will terminate upon the later of (i) Mr. Och’s withdrawal, death or disability, or (ii) such time as our partners hold less than 40% of our total combined voting power. Accordingly, Mr. Och currently has the ability to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors and thereby control our management and affairs. In addition, he will be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our Company or a change in the composition of our Board of Directors, and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our Company. The control of voting power by Mr. Och could deprive Class A shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A Shares as part of a sale of our Company, and might ultimately affect the market price of the Class A Shares. Upon Mr. Och’s withdrawal, death or disability, the Class B Shareholder Committee will consist of either (i) the members of the Partner Management Committee, who shall act by majority vote in such capacity, or (ii) a partner elected by majority vote of the remaining members of the Partner Management Committee to serve as the sole member of the Class B Shareholder Committee. Because our partners control more than 50% of our voting power, we are eligible for the “controlled company” exception from NYSE requirements that our Board of Directors be comprised of a majority of independent directors and that our Compensation Committee and Nominating, Corporate Governance and Conflicts Committee consist solely of independent directors. Although we do not currently intend to utilize this exception, we may in the future determine to do so. In addition, the shareholders’ agreement among us and our partners, in their capacity as the Class B shareholders, provides the Class B Shareholder Committee, so long as our partners and their permitted transferees continue to hold more than 40% of the total combined voting power of our outstanding Class A Shares and Class B Shares, with approval rights over a variety of significant Board actions, including: Ÿ any incurrence of indebtedness, other than inter-company indebtedness, in one transaction or a series of related transactions, by us or any of our subsidiaries or controlled affiliates in an amount in excess of approximately 10% of the then existing long-term indebtedness of us and our subsidiaries; Ÿ any issuance by us or any of our subsidiaries or controlled affiliates, in any transaction or series of related transactions, of equity or equity-related shares which would represent, after such issuance, or upon conversion, exchange or exercise, as the case may be, at least 10% of the total combined voting power of our outstanding Class A Shares and Class B Shares other than (i) pursuant to transactions solely among us and our wholly owned subsidiaries, (ii) upon issuances of securities pursuant to the Plan, (iii) upon the exchange of Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units with the Och-Ziff Operating Group entities for our Class A Shares pursuant to the exchange agreement or (iv) upon conversion of convertible securities or upon exercise of warrants or options, which convertible securities, warrants or options are either outstanding on the date of, or issued in compliance with, the shareholders’ agreement; Ÿ any equity or debt commitment or investment or series of related equity or debt commitments or investments by us or any of our subsidiaries or controlled affiliates in an unaffiliated entity or related group of entities in an amount greater than $250 million; 32 Table of Contents Ÿ any entry by us, any subsidiary or controlled affiliate into a new line of business that does not involve investment management and that requires a principal investment in excess of $100 million; Ÿ the adoption of a shareholder rights plan; Ÿ any appointment or removal of a chief executive officer or co-chief executive officer; or Ÿ the termination of the employment of an executive officer or the active involvement of a partner with us or any of our subsidiaries or controlled affiliates without cause. In addition, our operating agreement requires that we obtain the consent of the Class B Shareholder Committee for specified actions primarily relating to our structure so long as any Class B Shares are outstanding. Our structure is intended to ensure that we maintain exchangeability of Class A Shares and Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units on a one-for-one basis. Accordingly, the Class B Shareholder Committee will have the right to approve or consent to actions that could result in an economic disparity, such as the issuance of certain securities, making certain capital contributions, owning or disposing of certain assets, incurring certain indebtedness and conducting business outside of the Och-Ziff Operating Group. Our operating agreement contains provisions that reduce fiduciary duties of our directors and officers with respect to potential conflicts of interest against such individuals and limit remedies available to our Class A shareholders against such individuals for actions that might otherwise constitute a breach of duty. Our operating agreement contains provisions limiting the liability of our officers and directors to us, which also reduces remedies available to our Class A shareholders for certain acts by such person. Our operating agreement provides that in the event a potential conflict of interest exists or arises between any of our partners, our officers, our directors or their respective affiliates, on the one hand, and us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders, on the other hand, a resolution or course of action by our Board of Directors shall be deemed approved by all of our shareholders, and shall not constitute a breach of the fiduciary duties of members of the Board to us or our shareholders, if such resolution or course of action is (i) approved by our Nominating, Corporate Governance and Conflicts Committee, which is composed of independent directors, (ii) approved by shareholders holding a majority of our shares that are disinterested parties, (iii) on terms no less favorable than those generally provided to or available from unrelated third parties, or (iv) fair and reasonable to us. Accordingly, if such a resolution or course of action is approved by our Nominating, Corporate Governance and Conflicts Committee or otherwise meets one or more of the above criteria, shareholders will not be able to successfully assert a claim that such resolution or course of action constituted a breach of fiduciary duties owed to our shareholders by our officers, directors and their respective affiliates. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, which we refer to as the “DGCL,” in contrast, a corporation is not permitted to automatically exempt Board members from claims of breach of fiduciary duty under such circumstances. Our operating agreement also provides that to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law our directors or officers will not be liable to us other than in instances of fraud, gross negligence and willful misconduct. Accordingly, unless our officers and directors commit acts of fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct, our shareholders may not have remedies available against such individuals under applicable law. Under the DGCL, in contrast, a director or officer would be liable to us for (i) breach of duty of loyalty to us or our shareholders; (ii) intentional misconduct or knowing violations of the law that are not done in good faith; (iii) improper redemption of stock or declaration of a dividend, or (iv) a transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. Our operating agreement also provides that we will indemnify our directors and officers for acts or omissions to the fullest extent permitted by law other than in instances of fraud, gross negligence and willful misconduct, against all expenses and liabilities (including judgments, fines, penalties, interest, amounts paid in settlement with the approval of the Company and counsel fees and disbursements) arising from the performance of any of their obligations or duties in connection with their service to us or the operating agreement, including in connection with any civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or other action, suit or proceeding to which any such person may hereafter be made party by reason of being or having been one of our directors or officers. Under the DGCL, in 33 Table of Contents contrast, a corporation can only indemnify directors and officers for acts or omissions if the director or officer acted in good faith, in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the best interests of the corporation, and, in a criminal action, if the officer or director had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. Because our partners hold their economic interest through Och-Ziff Operating Group, conflicts of interest may arise between them and holders of our Class A Shares or us. Our partners hold 72.7% of the equity in the Och-Ziff Operating Group. Because they hold their economic interest in our business directly through Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units, rather than through ownership of our Class A Shares, our partners may have conflicting interests with holders of Class A Shares or with us. For example, our partners will have different tax positions from shareholders which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, and whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the tax receivable agreement. Decisions with respect to these and other operational matters could affect the timing and amounts of payments due to our founding owners under the tax receivable agreement. In addition, the structuring of future transactions and investments may take into consideration the partners’ tax considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us. We intend to pay regular distributions but our ability to do so may be limited by our holding company structure, as we are dependent on distributions from the Och-Ziff Operating Group to make distributions and to pay taxes and other expenses. As a holding company, our ability to make distributions or to pay taxes and other expenses is subject to the ability of our subsidiaries to provide cash to us. We intend to make quarterly distributions to our Class A shareholders. Accordingly, we expect to cause the Och-Ziff Operating Group to make distributions to its direct unitholders holding Och-Ziff Operating Group Equity Units, initially our intermediate holding companies and our founding owners, pro rata in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay such distributions to our Class A shareholders; however, no assurance can be given that such distributions will or can be made. Our Board of Directors can reduce or eliminate our distributions at any time, in its discretion. In addition, the Och-Ziff Operating Group is required to make minimum tax distributions to its direct unitholders, to which our Class A shareholders will not be entitled. As a result, Class A shareholders may not receive any distributions at a time when our founding owners are receiving distributions on their Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units. If the Och-Ziff Operating Group has insufficient funds to make such distributions, we may have to borrow additional funds or sell assets, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Furthermore, by paying cash distributions rather than investing that cash in our business, we might risk slowing the pace of our growth, or not having a sufficient amount of cash to fund our operations, new investments or unanticipated capital expenditures, should the need arise. The declaration and payment of any future distributions will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors, which may change our distribution policy at any time. Because we only earn and recognize incentive income on an annual basis, we anticipate that quarterly distributions in respect of the first three fiscal quarters will be disproportionate to distributions in respect of the last fiscal quarter, which will typically be paid in the first fiscal quarter of the following year. Our Board of Directors will take into account such factors as it may deem relevant, including general economic and business conditions; our strategic plans and prospects; our business and investment opportunities; our financial condition and operating results; working capital requirements and anticipated cash needs; contractual restrictions and obligations, including payment obligations pursuant to the tax receivable agreement and restrictions pursuant to our term loan; legal, tax and regulatory restrictions; and other restrictions and implications on the payment of distributions by us to our Class A shareholders or by our subsidiaries to us and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Any income payments made to our partners and compensatory payments made to our employees, as well as payments that Och-Ziff Corp makes under the tax receivable agreement and distributions to holders of Och-Ziff Operating Group Equity Units in respect of their tax liabilities arising from their direct ownership of Och-Ziff Operating Group Equity Units, will reduce amounts that would otherwise be available for distribution by us on the Class A Shares. In addition, any discretionary income allocations on the Class C Non-Equity Interests as determined by the Chairman of the Partner Management Committee (or, in the event there 34 Table of Contents is no Chairman, the full Partner Management Committee acting by majority vote) in conjunction with our Compensation Committee, will also reduce amounts available for distribution to our Class A shareholders. We have granted Class A restricted share units to our managing directors, other employees, and independent members of our Board of Directors, which accrue distributions to be paid if and when the underlying Class A restricted share units vest. Distributions may be paid in cash or in additional Class A restricted share units that accrue additional distributions and will be settled at the same time the underlying Class A restricted share units vest. The declaration and payment of any distribution may be subject to legal, contractual or other restrictions. For example, as a Delaware limited liability company, we are not permitted to make distributions if and to the extent that after giving effect to such distributions, our liabilities would exceed the fair value of our assets. In addition, we will not be permitted to make distributions if we are in default under our term loan, and the term loan limits the amount of distributions we can pay to our “free cash flow,” as such term is defined in the term loan. The vast majority of cash and investment assets reflected on our historical audited combined balance sheets belongs to our funds which are presented on a consolidated basis under GAAP. We depend on the cash we receive from the Och-Ziff Operating Group. Our historical audited combined financial information includes significant investment asset balances, cash and restricted cash that is owned by our consolidated funds. Although the investments, cash and other assets of certain of our funds were historically included in our consolidated statements for financial reporting purposes, such assets were not available to us to pay distributions or for other liquidity needs but rather were property of the relevant fund. Following changes made to our fund documents, most of our domestic funds are no longer included in our combined financial statements as of January 1, 2007 and none of our offshore funds is included as of June 30, 2007. As a result, such funds’ assets no longer appear on the face of our balance sheets. We depend on distributions from the Och-Ziff Operating Group for cash and the Och-Ziff Operating Group depends primarily on the management fees and incentive income it receives from our funds and its portion of the distributions made by the funds, if any, for cash. We do not receive management fees or earn incentive income on investments made by us, our managing directors or other employees or on certain investments made by our partners prior to the IPO. We are required to pay our founding owners for most of the tax benefits we realize as a result of the tax basis step-up we receive in connection with taxable exchanges by our founding owners of Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units or our acquisitions of those units from our founding owners. At any time and from time to time, subject to vesting, minimum retained ownership requirements and transfer restrictions, each of our founding owners has, and each of our future owners may have, the right to exchange its Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units for our Class A Shares on a one-for-one basis (or, at our option, a cash equivalent) in a taxable transaction. These taxable exchanges, as well as other acquisitions of Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units from our owners, may result in increases in the tax depreciation and amortization deductions, as well as an increase in the tax basis of other assets, of Och-Ziff Operating Group that otherwise would not have been available. These increases in tax depreciation and amortization deductions, as well as the tax basis of other assets, may reduce the amount of tax that our corporate taxpayer intermediate holding companies that hold an interest in an Och-Ziff Operating Group entity would otherwise have been required to pay in the future, although the Internal Revenue Service may challenge all or part of increased deductions and tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge. In connection with the IPO, we entered into a tax receivable agreement with our founding owners that provides for the payment by the corporate taxpayers (including Och-Ziff if it is treated as a corporate taxpayer) to those owners of 85% of the amount of tax savings, if any, that the corporate taxpayers actually realize (or are deemed to realize in the case of an early termination payment by the corporate taxpayers or a change of control, as discussed below) as a result of these increases in tax deductions and tax basis of the Och-Ziff Operating Group. The amounts to be paid will reflect the fact that payments under the tax receivable agreement may result in further tax savings, and thus may give rise to additional payment obligations thereunder. The obligation to pay 85% of the amount of such cash savings 35 Table of Contents to our founding owners is an obligation of the corporate taxpayers and not of the Och-Ziff Operating Group entities. Future cash savings and related payments to our founding owners in respect of subsequent exchanges would be in addition to these amounts. We may need to incur debt to finance payments under the tax receivable agreement to the extent our cash resources are insufficient to meet our obligations under the tax receivable agreement. The actual increase in tax basis of the Och-Ziff Operating Group assets resulting from an exchange or from payments under the tax receivable agreement, as well as the amortization thereof and the timing and amount of payments under the tax receivable agreement, will vary based upon a number of factors (including the law as in effect at the time of an exchange or a payment under the tax receivable agreement, the timing of future exchanges, the timing and amount of prior payments under the tax receivable agreement, the price of our Class A Shares at the time of any exchange, the composition of the Och-Ziff Operating Group’s assets at the time of any exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable and the amount and timing of the income of Och-Ziff Corp and our other intermediate corporate taxpayers that hold Och-Ziff Operating Group B Units in connection with an exchange, if any). Depending upon the outcome of these factors, payments that we may be obligated to make to our partners and the Ziffs under the tax receivable agreement in respect of exchanges could be substantial. In light of the numerous factors affecting our obligation to make payments under the tax receivable agreement, however, the timing and amounts of any such actual payments are not reasonably ascertainable. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Were the IRS to challenge a tax basis increase, our owners who have received payments under the tax receivable agreement will not reimburse the corporate taxpayers for any such payments that have been previously made. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made to our owners under the tax receivable agreement in excess of the corporate taxpayers’ cash tax savings. The corporate taxpayers’ ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under this agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, including the timing and amount of our future income. Decisions made by the partners in the course of running our business, in particular decisions made with respect to the sale or disposition of assets or change of control, may influence the timing and amount of payments that are payable to an exchanging or selling owner under the tax receivable agreement. In general, earlier disposition of assets following an exchange or acquisition transaction will tend to accelerate such payments and increase the present value of the tax receivable agreement, and disposition of assets before an exchange or acquisition transaction will tend to increase an owner’s tax liability without giving rise to any rights to receive payments under the tax receivable agreement. In addition, the tax receivable agreement provides that, upon a merger, asset sale or other form of business combination or certain other changes of control, the corporate taxpayers’ (or their successors’) obligations with respect to exchanged or acquired units (whether exchanged or acquired before or after such change of control) would be based on certain prescribed assumptions, including that the corporate taxpayers would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement. Accordingly, obligations under the tax receivable agreement may make it more expensive for third parties to acquire control of us and make it more difficult for the holders of Class A Shares to recognize a premium in connection with any such transaction. See “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Distributions, Future Liquidity and Capital Needs.” If we are deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our business would be subject to applicable restrictions under that Act, which could make it impracticable for us to continue our business as contemplated and would have a material adverse impact on the market price of our Class A Shares. We do not believe that we are an “investment company” under the 1940 Act because the nature of our assets and the sources of our income exclude us from the definition of an investment company under the 1940 Act. In addition, we believe our Company is not an investment company under Section 3(b)(1) of the 1940 Act because we are primarily engaged in a non-investment company business. We intend to conduct our operations so that we will 36 Table of Contents not be deemed an investment company. However, if we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated. In addition, we would no longer be treated, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as a partnership and our earnings would become taxable as a corporation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our Class A Shares. Risks Related to Our Shares The market price and trading volume of our Class A Shares may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our shareholders. The market price of our Class A Shares may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our Class A Shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our Class A Shares declines significantly, shareholders may be unable to resell their Class A Shares at or above their purchase price, if at all. The market price of our Class A Shares may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our Class A Shares or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Class A Shares include: Ÿ variations in our quarterly operating results; Ÿ failure to meet our earnings estimates; Ÿ publication of research reports about us or the asset management industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our Class A Shares in the future; Ÿ additions to or departures of our partners and other key management personnel; Ÿ adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; Ÿ actions by shareholders; Ÿ changes in market valuations of similar companies; Ÿ speculation in the press or investment community about our business; Ÿ changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; Ÿ adverse publicity about the asset management industry generally or individual scandals, specifically; and Ÿ general market and economic conditions. The price of our Class A Shares may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale and for exchange into Class A Shares. The market price of our Class A Shares could decline as a result of sales of a large number of our Class A Shares or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2007, 74,138,572 Class A Shares were outstanding, 13,959,579 Class A restricted share units were granted to our managing directors, other employees, and independent members of our Board of Directors, pursuant to the Plan, and approximately 44 million Class A Shares remain available for future grant under the Plan. Beginning in 2008, the Class A Shares reserved under the Plan will be increased on the first day of each fiscal year during the Plan’s term by the positive difference, if any, of (i) 15% of the number of outstanding Class A Shares (assuming the exchange of all outstanding Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units for Class A Shares) on the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year over (ii) the number of shares reserved for issuance under the Plan as of such date. The 36,000,000 Class A Shares held by our public shareholders are freely tradeable by non-affiliates and tradeable by affiliates under Rule 144 without regard to holding period limitations. 37 Table of Contents We have agreed with the underwriters of the IPO not to sell, otherwise dispose of or hedge, directly or indirectly, any of our Class A Shares or any securities issuable upon conversion of, or exchange or exercise for, Class A Shares (including interests in the Och-Ziff Operating Group), subject to specified exceptions, for 180 days after the completion of our IPO, except with the prior written consent of Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Lehman Brothers Inc. Subject to these agreements, we may issue and sell in the future additional Class A Shares or any securities issuable upon conversion of, or exchange or exercise for, Class A Shares (including interests in the Och-Ziff Operating Group). As of December 31, 2007, our founding owners owned an aggregate of 311,099,524 Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units. Each founding owner has the right to exchange each of its Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units for one of our Class A Shares (or, at our option, a cash equivalent), subject to vesting, minimum retained ownership requirements and transfer restrictions. Our founding owners, directors, executive officers, managing directors and participants in our directed share program have agreed with the underwriters of the IPO not to dispose of or hedge, directly or indirectly, any of our Class A Shares or any securities issuable upon conversion of, or exchange or exercise for, Class A Shares (including interests in the Och-Ziff Operating Group), subject to specified exceptions, for 180 days after the completion of our IPO, except with the prior written consent of Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Lehman Brothers Inc. After the expiration of this 180-day lock-up period, these Class A Shares and Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units will be eligible for resale from time to time, subject to certain contractual restrictions and Securities Act limitations. Under certain circumstances the 180-day lock-up period may be extended. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with our founding owners such that, after the expiration of their 180-day lock-up period, our partners will have the ability to cause us to register the Class A Shares they acquire upon exchange of their Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units or otherwise and our partners and the Ziffs will have certain “piggyback” registration rights in connection with registered offerings of our securities. In addition, we will be required to file a shelf registration statement on or prior to the fifth anniversary of the IPO covering the resale of all Class A Shares held by our partners and the Ziffs or issuable upon exchange of their Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units. As of December 31, 2007, we have granted 13,959,579 Class A restricted share units to our managing directors, other employees, and the independent members of our Board of Directors (excluding dividends on the restricted share units, if any), which units may be settled at the election of a majority of our Board of Directors in Class A Shares or cash. These units will vest, subject to continued employment, and the underlying Class A Shares will be issued, or cash in lieu thereof will be paid, in equal installments over a four-year period beginning on the first anniversary of the IPO. If an employee leaves or is terminated for any reason other than as a result of death or disability or in the event of a termination without cause within the one-year period following a change in control of us, such employee will forfeit all unvested units. Upon an employee’s termination of employment as a result of death or disability, all restricted share units will vest. Upon an employee’s termination without cause within the one-year period following a change in control of us, all restricted share units will vest and be settled in Class A Shares or cash on the first business day following the date such restricted share units would have otherwise become vested. We filed a registration statement on Form S-8 to register an aggregate of 57,785,714 Class A Shares reserved for issuance under the Plan (not including automatic annual increases thereto). As a result, any Class A Shares issued in respect of the Class A restricted share units will be freely transferable by non-affiliates upon issuance and by affiliates under Rule 144, without regard to holding period limitations. Concurrently with the consummation of the IPO, DIC Sahir acquired 38,138,571 of our Class A Shares. Subject to certain transfer restrictions, DIC Sahir is able to sell these Class A Shares and is entitled to certain registration rights. Further, pursuant to the terms of the Securities Purchase and Investment Agreement with DIC Sahir through which DIC Sahir acquired its shares, DIC Sahir and its controlled affiliates are restricted from purchasing any additional Class A Shares. We may determine at any time to waive or amend any provisions of the Securities Purchase and Investment Agreement, including the ownership threshold set forth therein. 38 Table of Contents The operating group limited partnership agreements authorize the Och-Ziff Operating Group entities to issue an unlimited number of additional partnership interests and authorize the general partner to specify (i) the allocations of items of partnership income, gain, loss, deduction and credit to holders of each such class or series of interests; (ii) the right of holders of each such class or series of interests to share (on a pari passu, junior or preferred basis) in partnership distributions; (iii) the rights of holders of each such class or series of interests upon dissolution and liquidation of the limited partnership; (iv) the voting rights, if any, of holders of each such class or series of interests; and (v) the conversion, redemption or exchange rights applicable to each such class or series of units, including exchanges for Class A Shares. The total number of interests that may be created pursuant to the foregoing and the issuance thereof that may be authorized by the general partner is not limited. Our partners’ beneficial ownership of Class B Shares, our shareholders’ agreement, the tax receivable agreement and anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control. Our partners beneficially own all of our Class B Shares, which as of December 31, 2007, represents approximately 79.1% of the total voting power of our Company. In addition, our partners have granted an irrevocable proxy to vote all of such shares to the Class B Shareholder Committee (the sole member of which is currently Mr. Och) as it may determine in its sole discretion. This proxy will terminate upon the later of (i) Mr. Och’s withdrawal, death or disability or (ii) such time as our partners hold less than 40% of our total combined voting power. As a result, Mr. Och is currently able to control all matters requiring the approval of shareholders and will be able to prevent a change in control of our Company. In addition, under the shareholders’ agreement entered into in connection with the IPO, the Class B Shareholder Committee has approval rights with respect to certain actions of our Board of Directors, including actions relating to a potential change in control, so long as our partners continue to hold at least 40% of our total combined voting power and has the ability to initially designate five of the seven nominees to our Board of Directors, and, under our operating agreement, the Class B Shareholder Committee will have certain consent rights with respect to structural and other changes involving our Company. See “—Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure—Control by Mr. Och of the combined voting power of our shares could cause or prevent us from engaging in certain transactions, which could adversely affect the market price of the Class A Shares or deprive our Class A shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium as part of a sale of our Company.” In addition, the tax receivable agreement provides that, upon a merger, asset sale or other form of business combination or certain other changes of control, the corporate taxpayers’ (or any successors’) obligations with respect to exchanged or acquired units (whether exchanged or acquired before or after such change of control) would be based on certain prescribed assumptions, including that the corporate taxpayers would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement. The provisions may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our shareholders. In addition, provisions in our operating agreement may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our shareholders. For example, our operating agreement provides for a staggered board of directors, requires advance notice for proposals by shareholders and nominations, places limitations on convening shareholder meetings, and authorizes the issuance of preferred shares that could be issued by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt. The market price of our Class A Shares could be adversely affected to the extent that Mr. Och’s control over us, as well as provisions of our operating agreement, discourage potential takeover attempts that our shareholders may favor. 39 Table of Contents Risks Related to Taxation Our structure involves complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. Our structure also is subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative change and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of holders of the Class A Shares depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. You should be aware that the U.S. federal income tax rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS, and the U.S. Treasury Department, frequently resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to regulations and other modifications and interpretations. The IRS pays close attention to the proper application of tax laws to partnerships. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in the Class A Shares may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time, possibly on a retroactive basis, and any such action may affect investments and commitments previously made. For example, changes to the U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the qualifying income exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is not taxable as a corporation, affect or cause us to change our investments and commitments, change the character or treatment of portions of our income (including, for instance, treating carried interest income as entirely ordinary income), affect the tax considerations of an investment in us and adversely affect an investment in our Class A Shares. “Carried interest” is a term often used in the marketplace as a general reference to describe a general partner’s right to receive its incentive income in the form of a profit allocation eligible for capital gains tax treatment (to the extent that the carried interest consists of capital gains). See “—Members of the United States Congress have introduced legislation that would, if enacted, preclude us from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the publicly-traded partnership rules. Our structure also is subject to potential judicial or administrative change and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.” Our organizational documents and agreements permit the Board of Directors to modify our operating agreement from time to time, without the consent of the holders of Class A Shares, in order to address certain changes in U.S. federal income tax regulations, legislation or interpretation. In some circumstances, such revisions could have a material adverse impact on some or all of the holders of our Class A Shares. Moreover, we will apply certain assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with applicable rules and to report income, gain, deduction, loss and credit to holders in a manner that reflects such holders’ beneficial ownership of partnership items, taking into account variation in ownership interests during each taxable year because of trading activity. However, these assumptions and conventions may not be in compliance with all aspects of applicable tax requirements. It is possible that the IRS will assert successfully that the conventions and assumptions used by us do not satisfy the technical requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and/or Treasury regulations and could require that items of income, gain, deductions, loss or credit, including interest deductions, be adjusted, reallocated, or disallowed, in a manner that adversely affects holders of the Class A Shares. Members of the United States Congress have introduced legislation that would, if enacted, preclude us from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the publicly-traded partnership rules. Our structure also is subject to potential judicial or administrative change and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. On June 14, 2007, the Chairman and the Ranking Republican Member of the United States Senate Committee on Finance introduced legislation that would tax as corporations publicly-traded partnerships that directly or indirectly derive income from investment adviser or asset management services. The Chairman and the Ranking Republican Member stated that they do not believe that proposed public offerings of private equity and hedge fund management firms are consistent with the intent of the existing rules regarding publicly-traded partnerships because the majority of their income is from the active provision of services to investment funds and limited partner investors in such funds. As explained in the technical explanation accompanying the proposed legislation: Under the bill, the exception from corporate treatment for a publicly-traded partnership does not apply to any partnership that, directly or indirectly, has any item of income or gain (including capital gains or dividends), the 40 Table of Contents rights to which are derived from services provided by any person as an investment adviser, as defined in the Advisers Act, or as a person associated with an investment adviser, as defined in that Act. Further, the exception from corporate treatment does not apply to a partnership that, directly or indirectly, has any item of income or gain (including capital gains or dividends), the rights to which are derived from asset management services provided by an investment adviser, a person associated with an investment adviser, or any person related to either, in connection with the management of assets with respect to which investment adviser services were provided. For purposes of the bill, these determinations are made without regard to whether the person is required to register as an investment adviser under the Advisers Act. If enacted in the form in which it was introduced by the Chairman and the Ranking Republican Member of the United States Senate Committee on Finance, the proposed legislation would be applicable to taxable years of a partnership beginning on or after June 14, 2007. On June 20, 2007, a Congressman from Vermont introduced legislation in the House of Representatives that is substantially similar to the legislation introduced by the Chairman and the Ranking Republican Member of the United States Senate Committee on Finance. In addition, on June 22, 2007, members of the United States House of Representatives Committee on Ways and Means, including the Chairman, introduced legislation in the House of Representatives that would have the effect of treating publicly-traded partnerships that derive income directly or indirectly from investment management services as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes (although no effective date for such legislation has been proposed to date). On October 25, 2007, the Chairman of the United States House of Representatives Committee on Ways and Means introduced comprehensive tax legislation that includes provisions that, if enacted in their proposed form, would have the effect of causing publicly-traded partnerships that derive income from investment management services to be treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, similar to the proposal introduced on June 22, 2007, and would increase the amortization period for assets such as goodwill from 15 to 20 years. If any version of these legislative proposals were to be enacted into law in the form in which it was introduced, or if other similar legislation were enacted or any other change in the tax laws, rules, regulations or interpretations were to preclude us from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the publicly-traded partnership rules, Class A shareholders would be negatively impacted because we would incur a material increase in our tax liability as a public company from the date any such changes became applicable to us, which could result in a reduction in the value of our Class A Shares. You may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on your share of our taxable income, regardless of whether you receive any cash distributions from us. So long as we are not required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act and 90% of our gross income for each taxable year constitutes “qualifying income” within the meaning of the Code on a continuing basis, we will be treated, under current law, as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and not as an association or a publicly-traded partnership taxable as a corporation. You may be subject to U.S. federal, state, local and possibly, in some cases, foreign income taxation on your allocable share of our items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit (including our allocable share of those items of any entity in which we invest that is treated as a partnership or is otherwise subject to tax on a flow-through basis) for each of our taxable years ending with or within your taxable year, regardless of whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions equal to your allocable share of our net taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income. In addition, certain of our holdings, including holdings, if any, in a Controlled Foreign Corporation, which we refer to as “CFC,” and a Passive Foreign Investment Company, which we refer to as “PFIC,” may produce taxable income prior to the receipt of cash relating to such income, and holders of our Class A Shares that are United States persons will be required to take such income into account in determining their taxable income. Under our operating agreement, in the event of an inadvertent partnership termination in which the IRS has granted us limited relief, each holder of our Class A Shares also is obligated to make such adjustments as are required by the IRS to maintain our status as a partnership. Such adjustments may require persons who hold our Class A Shares to recognize additional amounts in income during the years in which they hold such shares. We may also be required to make payments to the IRS. 41 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that amounts paid as distributions on Class A Shares will be sufficient to cover the tax liability arising from ownership of Class A Shares. Any distributions paid on Class A Shares will not take into account your particular tax situation (including the possible application of the alternative minimum tax) and, therefore, because of the foregoing as well as other possible reasons, may not be sufficient to pay your full amount of tax based upon your share of our net taxable income. In addition, the actual amount and timing of distributions will always be subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and we cannot assure you that we will in fact pay cash distributions as currently intended. In particular, the amount and timing of distributions will depend upon a number of factors, including, among others: Ÿ general business and economic conditions and our strategic plans and prospects; Ÿ amounts necessary or appropriate to provide for the conduct of our business, including to pay operating and other expenses; Ÿ amounts necessary to make appropriate investments in our business and our funds and the timing of such investments; Ÿ our actual results of operations and financial condition; Ÿ restrictions imposed by our operating agreement and Delaware law; Ÿ contractual restrictions, including restrictions imposed by our term loan and payment obligations under our tax receivable agreement; Ÿ cash income allocations to our partners, if any, and compensatory payments made to our employees; Ÿ the amount of cash that is generated by our investments or to fund liquidity needs; Ÿ contingent liabilities; and Ÿ other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant. Even if we do not distribute cash in an amount that is sufficient to fund your tax liabilities, you will still be required to pay income taxes on your share of our taxable income. If we were to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the value of the Class A Shares may be adversely affected. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or on any other matter affecting us. Under current law and assuming full compliance with the terms of our operating agreement (and other relevant documents) and based upon factual statements and representations made by us, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP opined that at the closing of the IPO we would be treated as a partnership, and not as an association or a publicly-traded partnership taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, opinions of counsel are not binding upon the IRS or any court, and the IRS may challenge this conclusion and a court may sustain such a challenge. The factual representations made by us upon which Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP relied relate to our organization, operation, assets, activities, income, and present and future conduct of our operations. In general, if an entity that would otherwise be classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes is a “publicly-traded partnership” (as defined in the Code) it will be nonetheless treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, unless the exception described below, and upon which we intend to rely, applies. A publicly-traded partnership will, however, be treated as a partnership, and not as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, so long as 90% or more of its gross income for each taxable year constitutes “qualifying income” within the meaning of the Code and it is not required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act. We refer to this exception as the “qualifying income exception.” Qualifying income generally includes dividends, interest, capital gains from the sale or other disposition of stocks and securities and certain other forms of investment income. We expect that our income generally will consist 42 Table of Contents of interest and dividends (including dividends from Och-Ziff Corp), capital gains and other types of qualifying income, such as income from notional principal contracts, securities loans, options, forward contracts and future contracts. No assurance can be given as to the types of income that will be earned in any given year. If we fail to satisfy the qualifying income exception described above, items of income and deduction would not pass through to holders of the Class A Shares and holders of the Class A Shares would be treated for U.S. federal (and certain state and local) income tax purposes as shareholders in a corporation. In such a case, we would be required to pay income tax at regular corporate rates on all of our income. In addition, we would likely be liable for state and local income and/or franchise taxes on all of such income. Moreover, dividends to holders of the Class A Shares would constitute ordinary dividend income taxable to such holders to the extent of our earnings and profits, and the payment of these dividends would not be deductible by us. Taxation of us as a publicly-traded partnership taxable as a corporation could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flow and the after-tax returns for holders of Class A Shares and thus could result in a substantial reduction in the value of the Class A Shares. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our Class A Shares could be more or less than expected. If you sell your Class A Shares, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the adjusted tax basis in those Class A Shares. Prior distributions to you in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to you, which decreased the tax basis in your Class A Shares, will in effect become taxable income to you if the Class A Shares are sold at a price greater than your tax basis in those Class A Shares, even if the price is less than the original cost. We treat each purchaser of our Class A Shares as having the same tax benefits without regard to the Class A Shares purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our Class A Shares. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of Class A Shares, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our holders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of Class A Shares and could have a negative impact on the value of our Class A Shares or result in audits of and adjustments to our holders’ tax returns. If we were not to make, or cause to be made, an otherwise available election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code to adjust our asset basis or the asset basis of OZ Advisors II, a holder of Class A Shares could be allocated more taxable income in respect of those shares prior to disposition than if such an election were made. We currently do not intend to make, or cause to be made, an election to adjust asset basis under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to us. If no such election is made with respect to us and OZ Advisors II, there will generally be no adjustment to the basis of the assets of OZ Advisors II upon our acquisition of interests in OZ Advisors II in connection with the IPO or upon a subsequent exchange of OZ Operating Group A Units for Class A Shares, or to our assets or to the assets of OZ Advisors II upon a subsequent transferee’s acquisition of Class A Shares from a prior holder of such shares, even if the purchase price for those interests or shares, as applicable, is greater than the share of the aggregate tax basis of our assets or the assets of OZ Advisors II attributable to those interests or units immediately prior to the acquisition. Consequently, upon a sale of an asset by us or OZ Advisors II, gain allocable to a holder of Class A Shares could include built-in gain in the asset existing at the time we acquired those interests, or such holder acquired such shares, which built-in gain would otherwise generally be eliminated if a Section 754 election had been made. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profit interests will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have been terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all holders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. 43 Table of Contents Complying with certain tax-related requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive business or investment opportunities or enter into acquisitions, borrowings, financings or arrangements we may not have otherwise entered into. In order for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and not as an association or publicly-traded partnership taxable as a corporation, we must meet the qualifying income exception discussed above on a continuing basis and we must not be required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act. In order to effect such treatment we (or our subsidiaries) may be required to invest through foreign or domestic corporations, forego attractive business or investment opportunities or enter into borrowings or financings we may not have otherwise entered into. This may adversely affect our ability to operate solely to maximize our cash flow. Our structure also may impede our ability to engage in certain corporate acquisitive transactions because we generally intend to hold all of our assets through the Och-Ziff Operating Group. In addition, we may be unable to participate in certain corporate reorganization transactions that would be tax free to our holders if we were a corporation. To the extent we hold assets other than through the Och-Ziff Operating Group, we will make appropriate adjustments to the Och-Ziff Operating Group agreements so that distributions to partners and us would be the same as if such assets were held at that level. We may not be able to invest in certain assets, other than through a taxable corporation. In certain circumstances, we or one of our subsidiaries may have an opportunity to invest in certain assets through an entity that is characterized as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, where the income of such entity may not be “qualifying income” for purposes of the publicly-traded partnership rules. In order to manage our affairs so that we will meet the qualifying income exception, we may either refrain from investing in such entities or, alternatively, we may structure our investment through an entity classified as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the entity were a U.S. corporation, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its operating income, including any gain recognized on its disposal of its interest in the entity in which the opportunistic investment has been made, as the case may be, and such income taxes would reduce the return on that investment. Our intermediate holding company, Och-Ziff Corp, is subject to corporate income taxation in the United States. In light of the publicly-traded partnership rules, a significant portion of our activities is conducted through Och-Ziff Corp, which is treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Och-Ziff Corp could be liable for significant U.S. federal income taxes and applicable state, local and other taxes that would not otherwise be incurred if it were subject to tax on a flow-through basis, which could adversely affect the value of your investment. Dividends paid by Och-Ziff Corp from time to time will then be included in our income. Prior to the IPO, we were not subject to taxation as a corporation. Since the IPO, our effective tax rate and tax expense has been significantly higher than prior to the IPO. The IRS could assert that we are engaged in a U.S. trade or business, with the result that some portion of our income is properly treated as effectively connected income, which we refer to as “ECI,” with respect to non-U.S. holders of Class A Shares. Moreover, certain REIT dividends and other stock gains may be treated as effectively connected income with respect to non-U.S. holders of Class A Shares. While we expect that our method of operation will not result in a determination that we are engaged in a U.S. trade or business, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert successfully that we are engaged in a U.S. trade or business with the result that some portion of our income is properly treated as ECI with respect to non-U.S. holders. Moreover, dividends paid by an investment that we make in a Real Estate Investment Trust, which we refer to as a “REIT,” that is attributable to gains from the sale of U.S. real property interests will, and sales of certain investments in the stock of U.S. corporations owning significant U.S. real property may, be treated as effectively connected income with respect to non-U.S. holders. In addition, certain income of non-U.S. holders from U.S. sources not connected to any such U.S. trade or business conducted by us could be treated as ECI. To the extent our income is treated as ECI, non-U.S. holders generally would be subject to withholding tax on their allocable shares of such income, would be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return for such year reporting their allocable shares 44 Table of Contents of income effectively connected with such trade or business and any other income treated as ECI, and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular U.S. tax rates on any such income (state and local income taxes and filings may also apply in that event). Non-U.S. holders that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes may also be subject to a 30% branch profits tax on such income. Class A shareholders may be subject to foreign, state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our Class A Shares. While it is expected that our method of operation will not result in a determination that the holders of our Class A Shares, solely on account of their ownership of Class A Shares, are engaged in trade or business so as to be taxed on any part of their allocable shares of our income or subjected to tax return filing requirements in any jurisdiction in which we conduct activities or own property, there can be no assurance that the Class A shareholders, on account of owning Class A Shares, will not be subject to certain taxes, including foreign, state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes, imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct activities or own property now or in the future, even if the Class A shareholders do not reside, or are not otherwise subject to such taxes, in any of those jurisdictions. Consequently, Class A shareholders also may be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns in some or all of these jurisdictions. Furthermore, Class A shareholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each Class A shareholder to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns that may be required of such Class A shareholder. Our delivery of required tax information for a taxable year may be subject to delay, which may require a Class A shareholder to request an extension of the due date for its income tax return. We have agreed to use reasonable efforts to furnish to you tax information (including Schedule K-1) which describes your allocable share of our income, gains, losses and deductions for our preceding taxable year. Delivery of this information by us will be subject to delay in the event of, among other reasons, the late receipt of any necessary tax information from lower-tier entities. It is therefore possible that, in any taxable year, our shareholders will need to apply for extensions of time to file their tax returns. An investment in Class A Shares will give rise to UBTI to certain tax-exempt holders of Class A Shares. Due to ownership interests we will hold in entities that are treated as partnerships, or are otherwise subject to tax on a flow-through basis, which will incur indebtedness or may engage in a trade or business, we will derive unrelated business taxable income, which we refer to as “UBTI,” from “debt-financed” property or from such trade or business, as applicable, and, thus, an investment in Class A Shares will give rise to UBTI to certain tax-exempt holders of Class A Shares. Och-Ziff Holding may borrow funds from Och-Ziff Corp or third parties from time to time to make investments. These investments will give rise to UBTI from “debt-financed” property. We may hold or acquire certain investments through an entity classified as a PFIC or CFC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Certain of our investments may be in foreign corporations or may be acquired through a foreign subsidiary that would be classified as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such an entity may be a PFIC or a CFC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. U.S. holders of Class A Shares indirectly owning an interest in a PFIC or a CFC may experience adverse U.S. tax consequences. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 45 Table of Contents 