D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We have adopted an item-based revenue model for all but one of our self-developed online games and intend to apply this revenue model to most of our new online games. This revenue model may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We have adopted an item-based revenue model for all of our self-developed online games except for our first MMORPG, Perfect World, for which we use a time-based model whereby players are charged for their playing time. Going forward, we intend to continue applying the item-based model to most of the new online games that we operate. Under the item-based revenue model, players are able to play the online game free of charge for an unlimited amount of time, but are charged for purchases of in-game items, such as performance-enhancing items, clothing, accessories and pets. The item-based model requires us to design games that not only attract players to spend more time playing, but also encourage them to purchase in-game items. The sale of in-game items requires us to track closely consumer tastes and preferences, especially in-game spending trends. In addition, the item-based model may cause additional concerns with the PRC regulators, who have been trying to implement ways to reduce the amount of time that Chinese youths spend on online games. A model that does not charge for time may be viewed by the PRC regulators as inconsistent with this goal. We cannot assure you that the item-based revenue model will continue to be successful, or that it will not have a negative impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue recognition policy for the item-based online games entails our best estimates of the lives of various items associated with each of our item-based games. We adopted the item-based revenue model beginning in September 2006. With respect to permanent ownership items that we sell to players, we recognize revenues over the estimated lives of such items. We consider the average period that paying players typically play our games and other player behavior patterns to arrive at our best estimates for the lives of these permanent ownership items, which, in some cases, may be as long as the estimated life of the related game. However, given the fast-evolving nature of the game industry and various types of online games we offer to players with different tastes and preferences, our estimate of the period that players typically play our games may not accurately reflect the actual lives of the items. We have been revising our estimates as we continue to gain operating data and refine our estimation process and results accordingly. Any future revisions to these estimates could adversely affect the time period during which we recognize revenues from these items. For example, an increase in the estimated lives of these items would increase the period over which revenues from these items are recognized. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Critical Accounting Policies—Revenue Recognition." If we are unable to successfully develop, launch and/or operate additional online games that grow our player base and increase our revenues, our future results of operations will be adversely affected. In order for our business strategy to succeed over time, we will need to continually develop, launch and operate new online games or license or acquire new games that are commercially successful. We 6 Table of Contents will need to do this to both replace our existing online games as they reach the end of their useful economic lives and to meet our growth strategy of operating a larger number of online games that grow our overall player base and increase our revenues. We plan to invest a significant amount of financial and personnel resources in developing, launching and operating new online games. The success of our new online games will largely depend on our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing consumer tastes and preferences and technological advances in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that the games we develop will be launched as scheduled, viewed by the regulatory authorities as complying with content restrictions, attractive to players, able to compete with games operated by our competitors or commercially successful. In addition, as we introduce new games, some of our existing customers may switch to the new games. If this transfer of players from our existing games does not grow our overall player base and revenues, our growth and profitability may be materially and adversely affected. We may license or acquire new games from other game developers from time to time. However, we have limited track record in operating games licensed or acquired from other developers, and we may not be able to identify appropriate games or enter into arrangements with those developers to offer these games in China or elsewhere, on terms acceptable to us. If we are not able to develop, license or acquire additional online games that are commercially successful and have continuing appeal to players, our future profitability and growth prospects will decline. We face risks and uncertainties regarding the growth of the online game industry and market acceptance of our online games and in-game items. The online game industry, from which we derive all of our revenues, is an evolving industry and concept. The growth of the online game industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of our online games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • the growth of personal computer, internet and broadband users and their penetration in China and other markets in which we offer our games, the size of population within our targeted age group, and the rate of any such growth; • whether the online game industry, particularly in China, the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, North America and Europe, continues to grow and the rate of any such growth; • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending; • changes in consumer demographics and consumer tastes and preferences; • the popularity and price of new online games and in-game items that we and our competitors launch and distribute; and • our ability to timely upgrade and improve our existing games to extend their life spans and to maintain their competitive positions in the online game market. Our ability to plan for product development and distribution and promotional activities will be significantly affected by our ability to anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. However, there is no assurance that online games will continue to be popular in China or elsewhere. A decline in the popularity of online games in general, or the online games that we operate, will likely adversely affect our business and prospects. We must be able to track and respond to changes in consumer preferences in a timely and effective manner, especially changes in game preferences and consumer spending trends relating to in-game item purchases. 7 Table of Contents A severe and prolonged global economic recession and the related slowdown in the Chinese economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and it is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011 and the slowdown of the Chinese economy since 2012. It is unclear whether the European sovereign debt crisis will be continued and whether the Chinese economy will resume its high growth rate. There is considerable uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world's leading economies, including China's. There have been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in volatility in oil and other markets. There have also been concerns about the economic effect of the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis in Japan and tensions in the relationship between China and Japan. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Since we derive a majority of our revenues from China, any slowdown in the Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways. For example, our game players may decrease or delay spending with us, while we may have difficulty expanding our customer base fast enough, or at all, to offset the impact of decreased spending by our existing game players. Furthermore, the economic recession in other countries where our games are operated may reduce game players' level of disposable income, perceived future earnings capacities and willingness to spend, and may thus result in a decline in their spending on our games and a corresponding decrease in our revenues and profit. Our business could suffer if we do not successfully manage our business expansion. We have experienced a period of significant business expansion that has placed, and continues to place, strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To accommodate our business expansion pursuant to our strategies, we anticipate that we may need to implement and maintain a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, including online payment systems and related security systems, procedures and controls, and improve our accounting and other internal management systems, all of which require substantial management efforts. We also will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, and manage our relationships with our distributors, customers, overseas licensees and third-party service providers. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and skill and the incurrence of additional expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively implement our business expansion strategies and manage the growth of our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and hamper our business strategy. Our recent acquisitions and strategic investments and any future acquisitions, investments or alliances may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and may subject us to unforeseen liabilities. Selective acquisitions of and investments in online game development and operating companies and alliances with key players in the online game industry and other related industry sectors form part of our strategy to further expand our business. However, our ability to grow through future acquisitions, investments or alliances, such as joint ventures, will depend on the availability of suitable acquisition or investment targets or joint venture partners at reasonable terms, our ability to compete effectively to attract these targets or partners, the availability of financing to complete large acquisitions, investments or joint ventures, and our ability to obtain any required governmental approvals. We only have limited experience in identifying, financing and completing large acquisitions, investments or joint venture transactions. These acquisitions and investments and our future similar 8 Table of Contents transactions could expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the assimilation of new operations, technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions, significant loss of investments, and potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with employees, customers, licensors and other suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain a satisfactory relationship with our joint venture or other partners or handle other risks associated with our future alliances, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Such transactions and the subsequent integration processes would require significant attention from our management. The diversion of our management's attention and any difficulties encountered with respect to the acquisitions or alliances or in the process of integration could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. We may suffer material loss on our venture capital investments if the fund we invested does not achieve the performance we expected. In 2011, we entered into a limited partnership agreement to invest up to RMB643.5 million as a limited partner in a venture capital fund over a nine-year period. This venture capital fund is expected to invest in high growth companies in the technology, media and telecommunication, or TMT, industries. In early 2013, we increased our committed capital for an additional RMB396.0 million and the investment term has been changed to 12 years. The venture capital fund intends to invest the additional capital received as a limited partner into another private equity fund, which focuses on investment into mature companies in the consumer and retail, financial services, health care, TMT, energy and natural resources, and high value-added manufacturing industries in China. The venture capital fund is managed by a general partner unrelated to us. Because various regulations in China currently restrict or prevent foreign-invested entities from engaging in certain TMT industries which are the targeted industries of the venture capital fund, we use Tianjin Trendsters Investment Co., Ltd., or Trendsters Investment, a variable interest entity we established in November 2011, as an investment vehicle to hold our investment in the fund. Trendsters Investment does not itself make investment decisions for the fund and is not involved in the management of the fund. These investments have inherent risks. We may suffer material loss in our venture capital investments if the fund we invested does not achieve the performance we expected. We operate in a highly competitive industry and compete against many companies. We believe that there are over 100 online game operators in China. Given the relatively low entry barriers to operating online games, we expect more companies to enter the online game industry in China and a wider range of online games to be introduced to the China market. Our principal competitors in China include Tencent Holdings Limited, or Tencent, NetEase.com, Inc., or NetEase, Shanda Games Limited, or Shanda Games, Changyou.com Limited, or Changyou, Giant Interactive Group Inc., or Giant Interactive, Kingsoft Corporation Limited, or Kingsoft, Shanghai Posts & Telecommunications Technology Co., Ltd., or Tiancity, Beijing Guangyu Huaxia Sci-Tech Co., Ltd., or Guangyu Huaxia, KongZhong Corporation, or KongZhong, and NetDragon Websoft Inc., or NetDragon. Our potential competitors also include major internet portal operators, other domestic and foreign game developers and publishers, and alliances between our existing and new competitors. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial and marketing resources, name recognition and game development resources than we have. In addition, many of our competitors have developed and operated games that have proven commercially successful for a longer period of time than our games and have a larger portfolio of online game offerings than we do. As a result, they may be able to take greater risks and endure lower than expected performances from some of their games than we are able to do. 9 Table of Contents Our competitors may introduce new business models, and if these new business models are more attractive to customers than the business models we currently use, our customers may switch to our competitors' games. We believe that competition in the online game market in China may become more intense as increasing numbers of online games are introduced in the market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against any new or existing competitors, or against any new business models implemented by them. In addition, mobile games have gained increasing popularity and user base along with the online games and other online platforms. The increased competition we have experienced and anticipate in the online game industry may reduce the number of our players or growth rate of our player base, or cause us to reduce usage fees or the prices of certain in-game items. All of these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability. As we currently depend on a limited number of online games for substantially all of our revenues, any adverse developments relating to these games may adversely affect our future results of operations. We anticipate that our existing client-based online PC games and mobile games in operation will continue to account for a substantial majority of our revenues in 2015. In 2014, our top three online games operated in China, namely Zhu Xian, Return of the Condor Heroes Mobile and Perfect World II, in aggregate contributed 34% of our total revenues. Although we currently have a number of new games in pipeline, and will target to develop and launch more games in the future, we cannot guarantee you that we will be able to successfully develop, launch and operate any of these new games. Neither can we guarantee you that we will be able to maintain the popularity of our top games or that our new games would generate sufficient revenues to replace these top games should they approach the end of their respective life cycles. Accordingly, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations: • failure by us to make quality upgrades, expansion packs, enhancements or improvements to the existing games in a timely manner; • any reduction in or failure to grow the player base of these existing games, any decrease in their popularity in the market due to intensifying competition or other factors; • any decrease in or failure to grow the amount of revenues generated from the existing games; or • any breach of game-related software security, prolonged server interruption due to network failures, hacking activities or other factors or any other adverse developments relating to our existing games. We are dependent on relationships with app stores and web platforms. We distribute our mobile games through a number of app stores and web platforms, including Apple's App Store, 91.com, Baidu, Qihoo 360 and UCWEB. These app stores and web platforms also serve as payment collection channels. App stores and web platforms have strong bargaining power in dealing with mobile game developers and operators like us. We are subject to the standard service terms and conditions of these app stores and web platforms with regard to the promotion, distribution, operation and payment methods for our mobile games. If any of these app stores and web platforms (i) goes out of business, (ii) discontinues its relationship with us due to any reason, such as our failure to comply with any laws or regulations in any jurisdiction where our games are offered, (iii) limits our access to its platforms, (iv) modifies its terms of services or other policies, (v) changes its fee structure, (vi) provides more favorable terms to our competitors or develops its own games, or (vii) is forced to cease the business relationship with us due to its lack of required licenses or permits or other regulatory compliance issues, our business could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents In addition, we have benefited from these platforms' widely recognized brand names and large player bases. If any of these app stores and web platforms loses its market position or otherwise falls out of favor among players or other factors cause its player base to stop growing or shrink, or if any of them fails to perform its contractual obligations to us, we would need to identify alternative platforms for marketing, promoting and distributing our mobile games, which would consume substantial resources and may not be effective or available. Our failure to anticipate or successfully implement new technologies could render our game engines, game development platforms or games uncompetitive or obsolete, and reduce our revenues and market share. Our proprietary game engines, game development platforms and anti-cheating expertise are critical to our success. The online game industry is subject to rapid technological change. We need to anticipate the emergence of new technologies and assess their market acceptance. We also need to invest significant resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in order to make our development capabilities and our games competitive in the market. However, development activities are inherently uncertain, and we might encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our development results. Our significant expenditures on research and development may not generate corresponding benefits. Given the fast pace with which online game technology has been and will continue to be developed, we may not be able to timely upgrade our game engines or our game development platforms in an efficient and cost-effective manner, or at all. New technologies in online game programming or operations could render our technologies, our existing online games or the games that we are developing or expect to develop in the future obsolete or uncompetitive, thereby potentially resulting in a decline in our revenues and market share. We face risks associated with the licensing and operation of our games overseas, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business internationally. As of the date of this annual report, we have licensed a number of our games to game operators overseas and have been operating a number of games in overseas markets by ourselves. We plan to further license and operate our existing and new games in more countries and regions. The offering of our games in the international markets through self-operation exposes us to a number of risks, including: • difficulties and costs in protecting our intellectual property rights overseas; • difficulties and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer our games, such as game import regulatory procedures, taxes and other restrictions and expenses; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • interruptions in cross-border internet connections or other system failures. The offering of our games in the international markets through licensing exposes us to a number of additional risks, including: • difficulties in identifying and maintaining good relationships with licensees who are knowledgeable about, and can effectively distribute and operate our games in, overseas markets; • difficulties in developing games and expansion packs catering to overseas markets and in renewing our license agreements with licensees upon their expiration; and • difficulties in maintaining the reputation of our company and our games, given that our games are operated by licensees in the overseas markets pursuant to their own standards. The countries and regions where we license our games impose various restrictions on online games. For example, Korea requires online game companies to obtain a rating classification for online games and implement procedures to restrict the distribution of online games to minors. In particular, 11 Table of Contents online game operators in Korea are required to screen minors from accessing the online games between midnight and 6 a.m. In Vietnam, all internet cafés must be shut down between 10 p.m. and 8 a.m., no online game advertisement is permitted and no internet café can be operated within 200 meters of a school. If we are unable to effectively manage these and other risks associated with the licensing of our games overseas, our ability to expand our business internationally and our growth prospect could be impaired. Unauthorized character enhancements and other hacking or cheating activities could harm our business and reputation and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. With the increase in the number of online game players in China, online game operators have increasingly encountered problems arising from the use of unauthorized character enhancements and other hacking or cheating activities. We have from time to time detected a number of players who have gained an unfair in-game advantage by installing hacking or cheating tools to facilitate character progression. In response to these activities, we have installed built-in detection mechanisms in our games to identify various hacking and cheating activities, and have expanded our technical team dedicated to detecting unauthorized character enhancements and resolving other hacking issues. Continued occurrences of unauthorized character enhancements and other manipulations may negatively impact the image of our online games and players' perception of their reliability, decrease the number of players, reduce the players' interest in purchasing in-game items, shorten the life span of the games and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, once we detect the players who have engaged in hacking or cheating activities, we generally suspend their access to their respective accounts, which may result in significant user dissatisfaction and cause some of these players to cease to play the game altogether. In addition, our games may be affected by other hacking or cheating activities in China and other countries and regions. We cannot assure you that we or our overseas licensees will be able to defend against these attacks promptly and effectively in the future. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and eliminate new unauthorized character enhancements or other hacking or cheating activities in a timely manner, or at all. Unauthorized character enhancements and other hacking or cheating activities could harm our business and reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, a constant recurrence of these activities may require us to shift our management's and personnel's attention from research and development and other operations to focus instead primarily on anti-hacking programs and activities, which could hurt our ability to develop and launch new games and grow our business. We may not be able to prevent others from infringing upon our intellectual property rights, which may harm our business and expose us to litigation. We regard our proprietary software, domain names, trade names, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and similar intellectual properties as critical to our success. In particular, we have spent significant amount of time and resources in developing our game engines and must continue to protect the technology. We do not hold any patents in China or elsewhere and intellectual property rights and confidentiality protection in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. We have taken steps to prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary technology, including registration of our online games that are currently in operation and a number of our game engines for copyright protection, registration of our domain names and entering into non-competition and confidentiality agreements with our key employees. However, these steps may be inadequate. Any misappropriation by our employees, licensees or other third parties of intellectual property used in our business, whether licensed to us or owned by us, could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures of the PRC and certain other countries are 12 Table of Contents uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights in this area to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures of the United States. We mainly rely on our licensees for copyright, domain names and trademark protection outside China, although very limited protection has been secured to date. We may need to resort to court proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights in the future. Litigation relating to our intellectual property might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention away from our business. See "—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us." We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims which could be time-consuming and costly to defend and may result in diversion of our financial and management resources and our inability to continue providing certain of our existing games. We cannot assure you that our online games or other content posted on our websites, such as the information posted on our in-game bulletin boards, do not or will not infringe upon patents, valid copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. For example, on February 1, 2013, a Delaware company sued Perfect World Entertainment Inc., or PW USA (Parallel Networks, LLC v. Perfect World Entertainment, Inc., Case No. 13-cv-00182) and ten other companies in related actions for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The plaintiff alleged that PW USA's installers, downloaders and/or launchers, which are downloaded by users from our websites in connection with the distribution of our games, infringed two of its patents. Although we settled this case in June 2013 without having any material adverse effect on our business, we cannot assure you that we will not face similar claims in the future. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, be forced to pay fines and damages, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses and diversion of our financial and management resources in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or other intellectual property rights claims against us may result in substantial monetary liabilities, which may disrupt our operations and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. Some of our employees were previously employed at other companies, including our current and potential competitors. We also intend to hire additional personnel to expand our product development and technical support teams. To the extent these employees are involved in research at our company similar to research in which they have been involved at their former employers, we may become subject to claims that such employees or we may have used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers of our employees. Moreover, we currently derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantial revenues and profits from online games based on intellectual property licensed to us by third parties. Any of our licensors may be subject to intellectual property rights claims with respect to those aspects of the online game licensed to us. If any of our licensors cannot prevail on the intellectual property rights claims brought against it, we might lose our license from such licensor and may not be able to obtain the license from the legitimate owner of the intellectual property, and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be the target of harassing or other detrimental conducts by third parties including defamatory and malicious internet postings and allegations reported to government authorities that could harm our reputation and adversely affect the price of our ADSs. We have been, and in the future may be, the target of harassing or other detrimental conducts by third parties. For example, in January 2012, there were anonymous allegations posted on certain Chinese language websites regarding the corporate governance and business ethics of our company and 13 Table of Contents our management. To our knowledge, some of these defamatory and malicious allegations were also reported to certain government authorities. We have been, and in the future may continue to be, subject to government or regulatory inquiries or investigation as a result of such third-party conducts. We may need to spend significant time and incur substantial costs to respond to such third-party conducts, and there is no assurance that we will be able to conclusively refute each of the allegations within a reasonable period of time, or at all. Our reputation and the price of our ADSs may also be negatively affected as a result of such detrimental third-party conducts. Undetected programming errors or flaws in our games or failure to maintain effective customer service could harm our reputation or decrease market acceptance of our games, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our games may contain errors or flaws, which may only become apparent after their release, particularly as we launch new games or introduce new features to existing games under tight time constraints. From time to time, our players informed us of programming flaws affecting their game play experience, which we were generally able to resolve promptly. Furthermore, customer service, including in-game masters, is critical for retaining customers, and we may not be able to maintain and continuously improve the quality of our services to meet customers' expectations. If our games contain programming errors or other flaws, or if we inadvertently delete our customers' records or otherwise fail to provide effective customer service, our customers may be less inclined to continue or resume playing our games or recommend our games to other potential customers, and may switch to our competitors' games. Undetected programming errors, game defects and unsatisfactory customer service can disrupt our operations, adversely affect the game experience of our customers, harm our reputation, cause our customers to stop playing our games, and delay market acceptance of our games, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Network interruptions or loss of critical customer data caused by system failures or other internal or external factors may lead to player attrition and revenue reduction and harm our business and reputation. Any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of our network and computer infrastructure may cause significant harm to our reputation and our ability to attract and maintain players. From time to time, our customers in certain locations could not gain access to our online game services for a period of time lasting from several minutes to several hours due to server interruptions, power shutdowns, internet connection problems or other reasons. Any server interruptions, break-downs, design deficiencies, or system failures, including failures which may be attributable to events within or outside our control that could result in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of our services or loss of critical customer data, could adversely impact our ability to service our players and lead to player attrition and revenue reduction. Our network systems are also vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, fire, flood, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer hacking and similar events. We do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our systems and do not have business interruption insurance. If our system and network infrastructure fails to operate effectively, our business may be harmed. We use internally developed software systems that support nearly all aspects of our billing transactions. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to upgrade our systems fast enough to accommodate future traffic levels, avoid obsolescence or successfully integrate any newly developed or acquired technology with our existing systems. Furthermore, our network capacity depends on our owned and leased network servers and the communication bandwidth that we lease. Constraints in network capacity could cause unanticipated system disruptions and slower response time, affecting data transmission and game play. These factors could, among other things, cause us to lose existing or 14 Table of Contents potential customers, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely on services from third parties to carry out our businesses, and if there is any interruption or deterioration in the quality of these services, our customers may cease playing our games. We rely on a distribution network composed of non-exclusive third-party distributors throughout China to carry out a portion of sales of our online game services to our customers. Our distributors also distribute games for our competitors. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our distributors, and cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. In addition, we rely on various internet data centers to host our servers. Any interruption in our ability to obtain the services of these or other third parties or deterioration in their performance could impair the timeliness and quality of our service. Furthermore, if our arrangements with any of these third parties are terminated or modified against our interest, we may not be able to find alternative channels of distribution or services on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us or at all. The financial soundness of our licensees, distributors and vendors could affect our business and results of operations. If our licensees, distributors, service or product suppliers and other vendors experience cash flow concerns, licensees and distributors may delay their payment to us and vendors may increase their prices, reduce their output or change terms of sales. Additionally, if the operating and financial performance of our licensees, distributors and/or vendors deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, licensees or distributors may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us and vendors may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. Any inability of current or potential licensees or distributors to pay us or any demands by vendors for different payment terms may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. We need a substantial amount of cash to fund our operations; if we fail to obtain additional capital when we require it, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations. In particular, we will need capital to fund the expansion of our business and our research and development activities in order to remain competitive in this market. Future expansions, changes in market conditions or other developments may also cause us to require additional funds. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, operations and reputation; • general market conditions in our industry; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. If we are unable to obtain necessary capital in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, our operation, results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We could be liable for breaches of security of our website and third party online payment channels, which may have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. Currently, a portion of our online game operation revenues are generated from sales through third-party online payment platforms. In such transactions, secured transmission of confidential information, such as customers' credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, over public networks, in some cases including our website as well, is essential to maintain consumer confidence. While we have not experienced any material breach of our security measures to date, we cannot assure you that our current security measures are adequate. In addition, we expect that an increasing amount of our sales will be conducted over the internet as a result of the 15 Table of Contents growing use of online payment systems over time. In the meantime, the associated online crime will likely increase as well and we must be prepared to increase our security measures and efforts so that our customers have confidence in the reliability of the online payment systems that we use. We do not have control over the security measures of our third party online payment vendors and we cannot assure you that these vendors' security measures are adequate or will be adequate with the expected increased usage of online payment systems. Security breaches of the online payment systems that we use could expose us to litigation and possible liability for failing to secure confidential customer information and could harm our reputation, ability to attract customers and ability to encourage customers to purchase in-game items. We have experienced and may continue to experience fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Although our entire game portfolio does not exhibit clear cyclic characteristics, our quarterly operating results have experienced fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Such fluctuations are due to a variety of factors, including the demand for our products and services and our competitors' products and services, the launch of our new games, changes in estimation of the average period that players typically play our games, the quality of the expansion packs for our existing games, the level of usage of illegal game servers, the level of usage of the internet, the size and rate of growth of the online game market, development and promotional expenses related to the introduction of new products, network interruptions and other system problems. As an online game operator, our revenues in any quarter depend on various factors that can cause significant fluctuations, including timing and strength of the expansion packs release and in-game promotions, the amount and mixture of in-game items purchased by players, the game playing time spent by our players and evolving market conditions. To a significant degree, our operating expenses are based on planned expenditures and our expectations regarding prospective customer usage and purchases. Failure to meet our expectations or our inability to accurately estimate customer usage and purchases, could disproportionately and adversely affect our operating results in any given quarter. Given the adoption of the item-based revenue model, it may be difficult to estimate customer usage and purchases. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of operating results are not necessarily indicative of our future results. Our business and growth are substantially dependent on the continuing efforts of our senior executive officers, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our senior executive officers and key employees. If one or more of our senior executive officers were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we might not be able to replace them easily, timely, or at all, our business may be severely disrupted, and our financial conditions and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If any of our senior executive officers joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose distributors, customers, service providers, know-how and key professionals and staff members. Each of our senior executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between our senior executive officers and us, these agreements may not be enforceable in China, where these executive officers reside, in light of the uncertainties relating to China's legal system. See "—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us." If we are unable to attract, train and retain key employees, our business may be adversely affected. We will need to hire and retain additional qualified employees, particularly experienced game development personnel with expertise in the online game industry. Since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to retain key personnel in the future. We formed five new controlled companies, in which we hold majority stakes, in line with the restructuring plan of our research and development 16 Table of Contents teams, to help retain, attract and incentivize top talents. However, we cannot assure you that, by implementing this plan or any other measures we may take in the future, we will be able to attract or retain the qualified key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives. In addition, as we are still a relatively young company and our business has grown rapidly since our establishment, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the increasing demands of our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, we are required to include a report of management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must issue an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, a material misstatement of our financial statements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In addition, we and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level in accordance with Section 404. This could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are not able to continue to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our ADSs. We face risks related to health epidemics and other natural disasters. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of Ebola virus disease, influenza, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or any other epidemic or outbreak. Any prolonged recurrence of Ebola virus disease, influenza, avian flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including, among other things, quarantines or closures of our offices which could severely disrupt our operations, the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, closure of internet cafés and other public areas where people access the internet, and a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of Ebola virus disease, influenza, avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. In addition, other major natural disasters may also adversely affect our business by, for example, causing disruptions of the internet network or otherwise affecting access to our games, or resulting in damages to our facilities. For example, the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis hitting Japan in March 2011 caused a temporary decline in the number of game players logged on to our games in Japan and a delay of the commercial launch of our new games in Japan. If PRC tax benefits currently available to our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC affiliated entities are reduced or repealed, our business and results of operations could suffer. Under the corporate income tax law that took effect on January 1, 2008, foreign-invested enterprises, such as our subsidiary, Beijing Perfect World Software Co., Ltd., or PW Software, and domestic companies are subject to corporate income tax at a uniform rate of 25%. Preferential tax 17 Table of Contents treatments will continue to be granted to entities which conduct businesses in certain encouraged sectors and to entities classified as "software enterprises" and/or "high and new technology enterprises." See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Taxation—PRC—PRC Corporate Income Tax." In addition, according to tax rules and regulations that are favorable to technology development businesses, revenues generated from software development and relevant technology consulting services may enjoy business tax exemption. Any expiration of, or changes to, these tax benefits or treatments will have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our global income may be subject to PRC tax under the corporate income tax law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the corporate income tax law and the Implementing Rules, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with "de facto management bodies" within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the corporate income tax on its global income. According to the Implementing Rules, "de facto management bodies" refer to "establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise." Accordingly, Perfect World Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries outside the PRC may be considered a resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to PRC corporate income tax on our global income. If Perfect World Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries outside the PRC are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than the dividends from our PRC subsidiaries, such PRC income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. In addition, with the uncertainty regarding the interpretation and implementation of the corporate income tax law and its implementation rules, if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, then any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders or ADS holders or any gains realized by non-PRC shareholders or ADS holders from transfer of our shares or ADSs may be subject to PRC withholding tax. If we are required under the corporate income tax law to withhold PRC income tax on the above dividends or gains, the investment in our shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. The PRC withholding tax rate on dividends that PW Hong Kong receives from our PRC subsidiaries may rise under the corporate income tax law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Pursuant to the corporate income tax law and the Implementing Rules, dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by a foreign-invested enterprise to its foreign investors are subject to a 10% withholding tax if the foreign investors are considered non-resident enterprises without any establishment or place within China or if the dividends payable have no connection with the establishment or place of the foreign investors within China, unless any such foreign investor's jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Perfect Online Holding Limited, or PW Hong Kong, our wholly owned subsidiary and the direct holder of 100% equity interest in PW Software, Shanghai Perfect World Software Co., Ltd., or Shanghai PW Software and Beijing Perfect World Game Software Co., Ltd., or PW Game Software, is incorporated in Hong Kong. According to a tax arrangement between Mainland China and Hong Kong, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its direct holding company in Hong Kong are subject to withholding tax at a rate of no more than 5% if the foreign investor directly owns at least 25% of the shares of the foreign-invested enterprise. However, if PW Hong Kong is not considered to be the beneficial owner of dividends paid to it by its PRC subsidiaries under a tax notice promulgated on October 27, 2009, such dividends should be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%. 18 Table of Contents We have limited business insurance coverage in China. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. As a result, we do not have any business liability, loss of data or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the arrangements that establish the structure for operating our business and investing in a venture capital fund do not comply with PRC government restrictions on foreign investment, we could be subject to severe penalties. We are a Cayman Islands company and, as such, we are classified as a foreign enterprise under Chinese laws, and our wholly owned PRC subsidiaries are foreign-invested enterprises. Various regulations in China currently restrict or prevent foreign ownership of companies that operate online game, online reading and other TMT businesses. In light of these restrictions, we operate our businesses and make investments through our variable interest entities in China. Specifically, we rely (i) on Beijing Perfect World Network Technology Co., Ltd., or PW Network, and Beijing Perfect World Digital Technology Co., Ltd., or PW Digital Technology, to conduct our online game businesses in China; and (ii) on Trendsters Investment to hold our investment in a venture capital fund that may invest in various TMT businesses. We previously operated our film and television business through Beijing Perfect Moment Network Technology Co., Ltd. (previously known as Beijing Perfect Moment Pictures Co., Ltd.), or Perfect Moment, in China, which no longer has material business operations after we sold the film and television business in August 2011. We had operated our online reading business through Beijing Huanxiang Zongheng Chinese Literature Website Co., Ltd. (previously known as Beijing Huanxiang Zongheng Network Technologies Co., Ltd.), or PW Literature, before we sold PW Literature to an unrelated party in December 2013. We treat PW Network, PW Digital Technology, Trendsters Investment, Perfect Moment, and PW Literature, for the period before we sold it in December 2013, as our variable interest entities. Our variable interest entities hold the licenses and own intellectual property, facilities and other assets that are essential for our business operations. Each of our variable interest entities and their respective equity owners have entered into a series of contractual arrangements with PW Software, or in the case of PW Digital Technology, with PW Game Software, through which we have effective control over each of our variable interest entities. The agreements between PW Literature, its equity owners and PW Software were terminated when we sold PW Literature to an unrelated party in December 2013. For a description of these contractual arrangements with PW Network, PW Digital Technology, Trendsters Investment, Perfect Moment and PW Literature, see "Item 4. Information on the Company—A. History and Development of the Company," "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Arrangements with PW Network and its Equity Owners," "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Arrangements with PW Digital Technology and its Equity Owners," "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Arrangements with Trendsters Investment and its Equity Owners," "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Arrangements with Perfect Moment and its Equity Owners" and "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Arrangements with PW Literature and its Equity Owners." Under the equity pledge agreements, the equity holders of our variable interest entities pledged their respective equity interests in our variable interest entities to PW Software or to PW Game Software in the case of PW Digital Technology. According to the PRC Property Rights Law which took 19 Table of Contents effect on October 1, 2007, such equity pledge has to be registered with the relevant administration for industry and commerce. We completed the registration of the pledge of PW Literature's equity interests in early 2011 and again in 2012 after the change of PW Literature's equity owners in July 2011. We completed the registration of the pledge of the equity interests of PW Network, Perfect Moment and Trendsters Investment in 2012 and the registration of the pledge of the equity interest of PW Digital Technology in 2014. The Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in and Operation of Value-added Telecommunications Business issued by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (previously known as the Ministry of Information Industry), or the MIIT, in July 2006, reiterated the regulations on foreign investment in telecommunications businesses, which require foreign investors to set up foreign-invested enterprises and obtain a business operating license for internet content provision, or ICP license, to conduct any value-added telecommunications business in China. Under this circular, an ICP license holder must own relevant trademarks and domain names that are used in the value-added telecommunications business, have necessary facilities for its approved business operations, and maintain network and information security in accordance with the standards set forth under relevant PRC regulations. Furthermore, an ICP license holder is prohibited from leasing, transferring or selling the license to foreign investors in any form, and from providing any assistance, including providing resources, sites or facilities, to foreign investors that conduct value-added telecommunications business illegally in China. Due to a lack of interpretative materials from the regulator, it is unclear what impact this circular will have on us or the other Chinese internet companies that have adopted the same or similar corporate and contractual structures as ours. We have made verbal inquiries with the officials at the MIIT, but have not been able to get a definitive answer as to the applicability of this circular to our corporate structure and to the enforcement and performance of the contractual arrangements between our wholly owned PRC subsidiaries on the one hand, and our variable interest entities and their respective equity holders on the other. On September 28, 2009, the General Administration of Press and Publication of China, or GAPP, which was reorganized as the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film, and Television, or SAPPRFT, in 2013, the National Copyright Administration, and National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications jointly issued a Notice on Further Strengthening on the Administration of Pre-examination and Approval of Online Games and the Examination and Approval of Imported Online Game, or the GAPP Notice. The GAPP Notice restates that foreign investors are not permitted to invest in online game-operating businesses in China via wholly owned, equity joint venture or cooperative joint venture investments and expressly prohibits foreign investors from gaining control over or participating in domestic online game operators through indirect ways such as establishing other joint venture companies, or contractual or technical arrangements. However, the GAPP Notice does not provide any interpretation of the term "foreign investors" or make a distinction between foreign online game companies and China based companies under a similar corporate structure like ours. Thus, it is unclear whether such regulations will be applicable to us or many other China based companies that rely on similar contractual arrangements with variable interest entities to operate online games in China. In the opinion of King & Wood Mallesons, our PRC counsel, each of the above agreements constitutes valid and legally binding obligations of each party to such contractual agreements under PRC Laws. However, King & Wood Mallesons is of the view that the interpretation and implementation of the laws and regulations in the PRC and their application to and effect on the legality, binding effect and enforceability of contracts are subject to the discretion of competent PRC authorities, and therefore there is no assurance that relevant PRC authorities will take the same position as the opinion of King & Wood Mallesons herein in respect of the legality, binding effect and enforceability of each of the contractual agreements. 20 Table of Contents It is uncertain whether any new PRC laws, rules or regulations relating to variable interest entity structures will be adopted or if adopted, what they would provide. In particular, in January 2015, the Ministry of Commerce published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law for public review and comments. Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of "actual control" in determining whether a company is considered a foreign-invested enterprise. Under the draft Foreign Investment Law, variable interest entities would also be deemed as foreign-invested enterprises if they are ultimately "controlled" by foreign investors, and be subject to restrictions on foreign investments. However, the draft law has not taken a position on what actions will be taken with respect to the existing companies with the "variable interest entity" structure, whether or not these companies are controlled by Chinese parties. It is uncertain when the draft would be signed into law and whether the final version would have any substantial changes from the draft. See "—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations." If we are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including levying fines, confiscating our income, revoking business licenses of PW Software and PW Game Software or the business or operating licenses of our variable interest entities, requiring us to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations, and requiring us to discontinue all or any portion of our online game operations. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our contractual arrangements with our variable interest entities may result in adverse PRC tax consequences to us. We could face material and adverse PRC tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that PW Software's and PW Game Software's contractual arrangements with our variable interest entities were not made on an arm's length basis and adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by (i) increasing the PRC tax liabilities of these variable interest entities without reducing the PRC tax liabilities of PW Software and PW Game Software, which could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to these variable interest entities for underpaid taxes; or (ii) limiting the ability of PW Software, PW Game Software and these variable interest entities to maintain preferential PRC tax treatments and other financial incentives. Our contractual arrangements with our PRC variable interest entities and their respective equity owners may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership of these entities. We conduct substantially all of our operations, and generate substantially all of our revenues, in China through contractual arrangements with our PRC variable interest entities and their respective equity owners that provide us with effective control over these variable interest entities. We have no direct ownership interest in our PRC variable interest entities. The contractual arrangements among our wholly owned subsidiaries, PW Software and PW Game Software, and our PRC variable interest entities and their respective equity owners may not be as effective in providing us with control over these variable interest entities as direct ownership subject to the discretion of competent PRC authorities. Our PRC variable interest entities or their respective equity owners may breach their contractual arrangements. The equity owners of these variable interest entities may bring claims against us to demand their economic and other rights in these entities by virtue of the fact that they are 21 Table of Contents registered equity holders of these entities. They may also refuse to transfer their equity interests in our PRC variable interest entities to us or our designee when and if we request so. There is no assurance that the equity owners of our variable interest entities will act in our interests in the event of conflicts of interest between their own interests and those of our company. In any such event, we would have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law. These remedies may not always be effective, particularly in light of uncertainties in the PRC legal system. See "—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us." In addition, PRC laws and regulations governing the validity of our contractual arrangements are uncertain and the government authorities, including courts, have broad discretion in interpreting these laws and regulations. See "—If the PRC government finds that the arrangements that establish the structure for operating our business and investing in a venture capital fund do not comply with PRC government restrictions on foreign investment, we could be subject to severe penalties." On February 2, 2012, a Chinese company unrelated to our company sought a court order of attachment against the assets of Beijing Jiuzhou Tianyuan Investment Management Co., Ltd., or Jiuzhou Tianyuan, an equity owner of PW Network. The law suit was later withdrawn in July 2012 according to a court record. On March 20, 2012, Jiuzhou Tianyuan filed a case against PW Network seeking access to financial and other information of PW Network as an equity holder of PW Network, notwithstanding that it has entered into an equity pledge agreement to pledge all its equity interests in PW Network to PW Software. Jiuzhou Tianyuan withdrew its case in June 2012 and the registration of the equity pledge of Jiuzhou Tianyuan with the relevant administration for industry and commerce was completed in July 2012. While our effective control over our variable interest entities has not been materially adversely affected, we may consider taking additional actions to maximize the protection of our interests in these entities, including restructuring our operations. Any of these actions may be time consuming, divert our management's attention, result in substantial costs on our part and cause unintended adverse consequences that may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and reputation. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Our business may be adversely affected by public opinions and government policies and regulations in China. Due to the high degree of user loyalty to client-based online PC games and other online games, easy access to personal computers and internet cafés, and lack of more appealing forms of entertainment in China, many teenagers frequently play online games. This may result in these teenagers spending less time on or refraining from other activities, including academics and sports. Furthermore, excessive game play may adversely affect the health of players, especially teenage players. Internet cafés, which are currently the most important outlets for online games, have been criticized by the general public in China for having exerted a negative influence on the youth of China. Due primarily to such adverse public reaction, local and central governments in China have tightened their regulation of internet café operations. A notice jointly issued by several central governmental agencies in February 2007 suspended nationwide approval for the establishment of new internet cafés for the year of 2007 and increased the punishment for internet cafés admitting minors. This notice also tightened the administration of in-game currency, and its impact on us and other operators of item-based online games is uncertain. Also, local and higher-level governmental authorities may from time to time decide to more strictly enforce the customers' age limit and other requirements relating to internet cafés as a result of the occurrence of, and the media attention on, gang fights, arson or other incidents in or related to internet cafés. As many of our customers access our games website from 22 Table of Contents internet cafés, any restrictions on internet café operations could result in a reduction of the amount of time our customers spend on our online games or a reduction in or slowdown in the growth of our customer base or customer purchases of in-game items, thus adversely affecting our business and results of operations. The PRC government may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry as a result of adverse public reaction to perceived addiction to online games, particularly among minors. In April 2007, eight PRC government authorities, including GAPP and several other governmental authorities issued a notice requiring all Chinese online game operators to adopt an "anti-fatigue system" in an effort to curb addiction to online games by minors. Under the anti-fatigue system, three hours or less of continuous play is defined as "healthy," three to five hours is defined as "fatiguing," and five hours or more is defined as "unhealthy." Game operators are required to reduce the value of game benefits for minor game players by half when those game players reach the "fatigue" level, and to zero when they reach the "unhealthy" level. In addition, online game players in China are now required to register their identity card numbers before they can play an online game. This system allows game operators to identify which game players are minors. The implementation of the aforementioned systems and regulations may discourage or otherwise prevent or restrict our young and other customers from playing our online games, which could limit the growth of or reduce our revenues, thus adversely affecting our business and results of operations. If we fail to implement these systems timely and successfully, the relevant government authorities may have broad discretion in dealing with our noncompliance, including rejecting our application for the operation of new games, suspending our online game operations and revoking our relevant licenses. In addition, it is also possible that the PRC government authorities may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry as a result of adverse public reaction or otherwise. Any such restrictions on online game playing would adversely affect our business and results of operations. The continued growth of China's internet market as well as our growth may be adversely affected by an inadequate telecommunications infrastructure. Although private sector internet service providers currently exist in China, almost all access to the internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunications operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the MIIT. We rely on this infrastructure to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines. Although the government has announced plans to develop aggressively the national information infrastructure, we cannot assure you that this infrastructure will be developed as planned or at all. In addition, we will have no access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis if at all, in the event of any infrastructure disruption or failure. The internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands necessary for the continued growth in internet usage and in our business. Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our services and adversely affect our competitive position. Most of our operations are conducted in China and most of our revenues are sourced from China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to the economic, political and legal developments of China. Since the late 1970s, the PRC government has been reforming the economic system in China. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth. However, we cannot predict the future direction of economic reforms or the effects such measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. Furthermore, while the economy of China has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC 23 Table of Contents government also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Future actions and policies of the PRC government could materially affect our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. The laws and regulations governing the online game industry in China are developing and subject to future changes. If we fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits and approvals, our business and operations would be materially and adversely affected. The online game industry in China is highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the PRC central government, such as the State Council, the MIIT, the GAPP that was reorganized as the SAPPRFT in 2013, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Public Security are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of these industries. We are required to obtain applicable permits or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide online game services. For example, an internet content provider, or ICP, such as PW Network, must obtain an ICP license in order to engage in any commercial ICP operations within China. Online game operators must also obtain a license from the Ministry of Culture and an internet publishing license from the GAPP that was reorganized as the SAPPRFT in 2013 in order to distribute games through the internet. Before May 2008, we did not hold an internet publishing license as the issuance of such licenses had been suspended by the GAPP that was reorganized as the SAPPRFT in 2013. PW Network obtained an internet publishing license for online game publishing in May 2008, which allows PW Network to distribute and publish online games on the internet. Hefei Perfect World Network Technology Co., Ltd, or Hefei PW Network, a wholly owned subsidiary of PW Digital Technology, obtained an internet publishing license for online game and mobile game publishing in June 2012, which allows Hefei PW Network to distribute and publish online games and mobile games on the internet. Currently, our self-operated online games are published in China by PW Network or Hefei PW Network. We have filed internet publications of our client-based online PC games and certain of our self-developed web games and mobile games with SAPPRFT, and we are in the process of filing internet publications of our other self-developed web games and mobile games. As the online game industry is at a relatively early stage of development in China, new laws and regulations may be adopted from time to time to require additional licenses and permits other than those we currently have, and address new issues that arise. As a result, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to these industries. We cannot assure you that we will be able to timely obtain required licenses or any other new license required in the future, or at all. We cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws and regulations. Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of draft PRC Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations. The Ministry of Commerce published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law in January 2015 aiming to, upon its enactment, replace the trio of existing laws regulating foreign investment in China, namely, the Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law, the Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Enterprise Law and the Wholly Foreign-owned Enterprise Law, together with their implementation rules and ancillary regulations. The draft Foreign Investment Law embodies an expected PRC regulatory trend to rationalize its foreign investment regulatory regime in line with prevailing international practice and the legislative efforts to unify the corporate legal requirements for 24 Table of Contents both foreign and domestic investments. The Ministry of Commerce solicited comments on this draft and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to its enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may materially impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations in many aspects. Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of "actual control" in determining whether a company is considered a foreign-invested enterprise. The draft Foreign Investment Law specifically provides that entities established in China but "controlled" by foreign investors will be treated as foreign-invested enterprises, whereas an entity set up in a foreign jurisdiction would nonetheless be, upon market entry clearance by the Ministry of Commerce, treated as a PRC domestic investor provided that the entity is "controlled" by PRC entities and/or citizens. In this connection, "control" is broadly defined in the draft law to cover the following summarized categories: (i) holding 50% or more of the voting rights of the subject entity; (ii) holding less than 50% of the voting rights of the subject entity but having the power to secure at least 50% of the seats on the board or other equivalent decision making bodies, or having the voting power to material influence on the board, the shareholders' meeting or other equivalent decision making bodies; or (iii) having the power to exert decisive influence, via contractual or trust arrangements, over the subject entity's operations, financial matters or other key aspects of business operations. Once an entity is determined to be a foreign-invested enterprise, it will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in a "negative list," to be separately issued by the State Council later, if the foreign-invested enterprise is engaged in the industry listed in the negative list. Unless the underlying business of the foreign-invested enterprise falls within the negative list, which calls for market entry clearance by the Ministry of Commerce, prior approval from the government authorities as mandated by the existing foreign investment legal regime would no longer be required for establishment of the foreign-invested enterprise. The "variable interest entity" structure, or Contractual Arrangement, has been adopted by many PRC-based companies, including us, to obtain necessary licenses and permits in the industries that are currently subject to foreign investment restrictions in China. See "—Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure" and "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions." Under the draft Foreign Investment Law, variable interest entities that are controlled via contractual arrangement would also be deemed as foreign-invested enterprises, if they are ultimately "controlled" by foreign investors. Therefore, for any companies with a Contractual Arrangement in an industry category that is on the "negative list," the Contractual Arrangement may be deemed legitimate only if the ultimate controlling person(s) is/are of PRC nationality (either PRC companies or PRC citizens). Conversely, if the actual controlling person(s) is/are of foreign nationalities, then the variable interest entities will be treated as foreign-invested enterprises and any operation in the industry category on the "negative list" without market entry clearance may be considered as illegal. Through our dual-class share structure, our founder and chairman of board of directors Mr. Michael Yufeng Chi, a PRC citizen, controlled 56.0% of the voting power of our company as of April 26, 2015. However, the draft Foreign Investment Law has not taken a position on what actions shall be taken with respect to the existing companies with a Contractual Arrangement, whether or not these companies are controlled by Chinese parties, while it solicited comments from the public on this point. Moreover, it is uncertain whether the online game industry, in which our variable interest entities operate, will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in the "negative list" to be issued. If the enacted version of the Foreign Investment Law and the final "negative list" mandate further actions, such as Ministry of Commerce market entry clearance, to be completed by companies with existing Contractual Arrangement like us, we face uncertainties as to whether such clearance can be timely obtained, or at all. 25 Table of Contents The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may also materially impact our corporate governance practice and increase our compliance costs. For instance, the draft Foreign Investment Law imposes stringent ad hoc and periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors and the applicable foreign-invested enterprises. Aside from investment implementation report and investment amendment report that are required at each investment and alteration of investment specifics, an annual report is mandatory, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria are required to report on a quarterly basis. Any company found to be non-compliant with this information reporting obligations may potentially be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liabilities, and the persons directly responsible may be subject to criminal liabilities. Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the internet in China may adversely affect our business, and we may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from, or linked to our internet websites. The PRC government has adopted certain regulations governing internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the internet. Under these regulations, internet content providers and internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the internet content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China, or is obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. Meanwhile, when internet content providers and internet publishers find that information falling within the above scope is transmitted on their websites or is stored in their electronic bulletin service systems, they should terminate the transmission of such information or delete such information immediately and keep records and report to relevant authorities. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the revocation of the ICP license and other required licenses and the closure of the concerned websites. The website operator may also be held liable for such prohibited information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to such website. In addition, the MIIT has published regulations that subject website operators to potential liability for content included on their websites and the actions of users and others using their websites, including liability for violations of PRC laws prohibiting the dissemination of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security has the authority to order any local internet service provider to block any internet website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. Periodically, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the dissemination over the internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of State secrets of the PRC government, is authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking State secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of State secrets in the dissemination of online information. As these regulations are relatively new and subject to interpretation by the relevant authorities, it may not be possible for us to determine in all cases the type of content that could result in liability for us as a website operator. In addition, we may not be able to control or restrict the content of other internet content providers linked to or accessible through our websites, or content generated or placed on our websites by our users, despite our attempt to monitor such content. To the extent that regulatory authorities find any portion of our content objectionable, they may require us to limit or eliminate the dissemination of such information or otherwise curtail the nature of such content in our online games and on our websites, and keep records and report to relevant authorities, which may reduce our player base, the amount of time our games are played or the purchases of in-game items. This would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to significant penalties for violations of those regulations arising from information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to our online games and websites, including a suspension or shutdown of our operations. 26 Table of Contents There are currently no laws or regulations in the PRC governing property rights of virtual assets and therefore it is not clear what liabilities, if any, we may have relating to the loss of virtual assets by our game players. In the course of playing our games, players acquire and accumulate some virtual assets, such as performance-enhancing items, clothing, accessories, pets and other in-game items. Such virtual assets can be highly valued by game players. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, such as data loss caused by delay of network service, by a network crash, or by hacking activities. There are currently no PRC laws and regulations governing property rights of virtual assets. As a result, it is unclear who is the legal owner of virtual assets and whether the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law. In addition, it is unclear under PRC law whether an operator of online games such as us would have any liability (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for loss of such virtual assets by game players. Based on several judgments regarding the liabilities of online game operators for loss of virtual assets by game players, the courts have generally required the online game operators to provide well-developed security systems to protect such virtual assets owned by game players. In the event of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by game players and may be held liable for damages. Restrictions on virtual currency may adversely affect our revenues from game operations in China. Our revenues from game operations in China are collected through the sale of our prepaid cards or sale of our online points. The Notice on the Reinforcement of the Administration of Internet Cafés and Online Games issued by the Ministry of Culture on February 15, 2007 directs the People's Bank of China to strengthen the administration of virtual currency in online games to avoid any adverse impact on the PRC economy and financial system. This notice provides that the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by individual game players should be strictly limited, with a strict and clear division between virtual transactions and real transactions carried out by way of ecommerce. This notice also provides that virtual currency should only be used to purchase in-game items. On June 4, 2009, the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Culture jointly issued Notice on the Reinforcement of the Administration of Virtual Currency in Online Games, which defines what is virtual currency and requires that entities should obtain the approval from the Ministry of Commerce before issuing virtual currency and engaging in transactions using virtual currency in connection with online games. Entities are prohibited from using virtual currency to carry out gambling business. These restrictions may result in lower sales of our prepaid cards or online points, and could have an adverse effect on our game operations revenues. PRC regulations relating to internet video/audio program services may adversely affect the operation of our online games. On December 12, 2007, the Ministry of Public Security, and the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or the SARFT, and MIIT promulgated the Administrative Measures on internet Video/Audio Program Services, which requires that, among others, a service provider of internet video/audio program should obtain a license from the SARFT, failure of which may result in the suspension or close of the website providing the internet video/audio program services. On April 1, 2010, the SARFT issued the Tentative Catalogue of internet Video/Audio Program Services, which classifies the internet video and audio services into three categories and provides detailed description on each category. We obtained the SARFT license to provide internet video and audio services through our website wanmei.com in 2010. If any PRC regulatory agency determines that our operation of internet video/audio program is not in compliance with the requirements of this regulation, the regulatory agency may impose fines and penalties or take actions to prevent us from providing internet video and audio services through our online games websites, which may adversely affect the operation of our online games. 27 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our PRC subsidiaries' ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profit to us or otherwise expose us to liabilities and penalties under PRC law. On July 14, 2014, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Domestic Residents' Investment and Offshore Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular 37, which requires PRC residents (including PRC entities and PRC resident individuals) to register with SAFE or its local branches in connection with their establishment or control of an offshore entity established for the purpose of overseas investment or financing, with such PRC residents' legally owned assets or equity interests in domestic enterprises or offshore assets or interests. In addition, such PRC residents shall update their SAFE registrations when the offshore special purpose vehicle undergoes any change of basic information (including change of such PRC individual shareholder, name and operation term), or material events relating to increases or decreases in investment amount contributed by PRC resident individual, transfers or exchanges of shares, or mergers or divisions. SAFE Circular 37 is issued to replace the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or SAFE Circular 75. SAFE Circular 37, and any subsequent implementation rules as may be issued by SAFE, may apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents ultimately owned by PRC residents and may apply to any of our potential offshore acquisitions in the future. If our shareholders who are PRC residents do not complete their registration with the local SAFE branches, our PRC subsidiaries may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to us, and we may be restricted in our ability to contribute additional capital to our PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration described above could result in liability under PRC laws for violation of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We have requested our shareholders who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under SAFE Circular 37 and the relevant SAFE regulations and guidance. We attempt to comply, and attempt to ensure that our shareholders who are subject to these rules comply with the relevant requirements. However, we cannot provide any assurance that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by SAFE Circular 37 and the relevant SAFE regulations and rules. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to make any required registrations or comply with other requirements may subject such shareholders or our PRC subsidiaries to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into or provide loans to our PRC subsidiaries or variable interest entities, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notice relating to Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or SAFE Notice 7, which replaced an earlier SAFE notice promulgated in 2007. Under SAFE Notice 7, PRC individuals and foreign citizens having resided in the PRC for one year or more who participate in a stock incentive plan of an overseas listed company are required, through a PRC domestic agent or PRC subsidiary of the overseas listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted restricted shares or stock options 28 Table of Contents pursuant to our share incentive plan are subject to this notice because we are an overseas listed company. If we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with the provisions of this notice, we and/or our Chinese employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other PRC government authorities. A PRC regulation promulgated in August 2006 and certain other PRC regulations set forth complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors which could make it more difficult to pursue growth through acquisitions. On August 8, 2006, six PRC government and regulatory authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce, and the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, promulgated a rule entitled "Provisions regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors," which became effective on September 8, 2006, and were amended on June 22, 2009. This regulation, among other things, sets forth complex procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. We made some acquisitions and investments in the past and we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses in the future. Complying with the requirements of this regulation to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit the completion of such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. In addition, if any PRC regulatory agency determines that any of our past acquisitions was not in compliance with the requirements of this regulation, the regulatory agency may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects. Also, other recently adopted regulations and rules concerning mergers and acquisitions set forth additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities of foreign investors more time consuming and complex. For example, on February 3, 2011, the General Office of the State Council promulgated a Notice on Establishing the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the Circular No. 6, which officially establishes a security review system for mergers and acquisitions of domestic enterprises by foreign investors. Under Circular No. 6, a security review is required for mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors having "national defense and security" concerns and mergers and acquisitions by which foreign investors may acquire the "de facto control" of domestic enterprises with "national security" concerns. In the future, we may grow our business by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the above-mentioned regulations and other relevant rules to complete such transactions could be time consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions. It is unclear whether our business would be deemed to be in an industry that raises "national defense and security" or "national security" concerns. If the Ministry of Commerce or other government agencies determines in the future that our business is in an industry subject to the security review, our future acquisitions in the PRC, including those by way of entering into contractual control arrangements with target entities, may be closely scrutinized or prohibited. Our ability to expand our business or maintain or expand our market share through future acquisitions would as such be materially and adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We are a holding company, and we conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and variable interest entities incorporated in China. These entities are subject to PRC laws and regulations including, in the case of our wholly owned subsidiaries, laws applicable to wholly-foreign owned enterprises. In addition, we depend on our variable interest entities and their equity holders to honor their agreements with us. Almost all of these agreements are governed by PRC law and disputes arising out of these agreements are expected to be decided by arbitration in China. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We may partly rely on dividends paid by our operating subsidiaries in China for our cash needs. We may partly rely on dividends paid by our PRC subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions, if any, to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Our PRC subsidiaries are also required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reach 50% of their registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, if our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by an auditor who is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, in the United States and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards in connection with their audits of financial statements filed with the SEC. Because our auditors are located in the People's Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audits and quality control procedures of any auditors operating in China, including our auditors. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor's audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. 30 Table of Contents If additional remedial measures are imposed on the certain PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in administrative proceedings brought by the SEC, we could be unable to file timely future financial statements in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC brought administrative proceedings against five accounting firms in China, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that they violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC's rules and regulations thereunder by refusing to produce audit work papers and other documents related to certain other PRC-based companies under investigation by the SEC. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, censuring these five PRC-based accounting firms and suspending four of them, which are members of large international networks associated with the "Big Four" accounting firms, from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The decision is neither final nor legally effective unless and until reviewed and approved by the SEC. On February 12, 2014, these four PRC-based accounting firms appealed to the SEC against this decision. In February 2015, each of these four PRC-based accounting firms agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC. The settlement requires the firms to follow detailed procedures to seek to provide the SEC with access to Chinese firms' audit documents via the CSRC. If the firms do not follow these procedures, or if there is a failure of the process between the SEC and the CSRC, the SEC could impose penalties such as suspensions, or it could restart the administrative proceedings. In the event that the SEC restarts the administrative proceedings, depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, as amended, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding PRC-based, United States-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. If our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, even temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, as amended. Such a determination could ultimately lead to delisting of our ordinary shares from the NASDAQ Global Select Market or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our business and result of operations. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by changes in China's political and economic conditions and by China's foreign exchange policies, among other things. In July 2005, the PRC government changed its decades-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar, and the Renminbi appreciated more than 20% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Between July 2008 and June 2010, this appreciation halted and the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar remained within a narrow band. After June 2010, the Renminbi began to appreciate against the U.S. dollar again, although there have been some periods when it has lost value against the U.S. dollar, as it did for example during 2014. It is difficult to predict how market forces or PRC or U.S. government policy may impact the exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar in the future. As most of our costs and expenses are denominated in Renminbi, any appreciation in the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could further increase our costs in U.S. dollar terms. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on 31 Table of Contents the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues or financing effectively. Most of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. We may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares or ADSs. Under China's existing foreign exchange regulations, our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign exchange transactions by our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China under capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of, or registration with, PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if our subsidiaries or affiliated entities in China borrow foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance them by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved or registered by certain government authorities including SAFE, the Ministry of Commerce or their local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of these entities to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, and could affect our business and financial condition. Our non-PRC resident enterprise investors face PRC tax uncertainty with respect to indirect transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or Circular 698, which is issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation and became effective retroactively from January 1, 2008, where a non-resident enterprise investor transfers equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise indirectly by way of disposing equity interests in an overseas holding company, and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that: (i) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (ii) does not tax foreign income of its residents, the non-resident enterprise investor should report such indirect transfer to the relevant tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise. The PRC tax authorities will then adopt the "substance over form" principle to review the transaction and may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if they consider the establishment of the holding company to be lack of a reasonable commercial purpose and is mainly for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring PRC tax. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at the rate of up to 10%. In addition, the PRC resident enterprise may be required to provide necessary assistance to support the enforcement of Circular 698. However, there are uncertainties related to the application of Circular 698. For example, while the term "Indirect Transfer" is not clearly defined, it appears that the PRC tax authorities are authorized to request information from a wide range of foreign entities that have no direct link to China. Moreover, there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and implementation of the related regulations. In addition, there is lack of regulations regarding how to determine whether an indirect share transfer is arranged mainly for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring PRC tax. In our case, although it appears that Circular 698 is not intended to apply to transfers of publicly traded shares, it remains unclear whether such exemption will be applicable to the ordinary shares or ADSs transfer of our company. If Circular 698 is determined by the tax authorities to be applicable to the 32 Table of Contents disposal of our ordinary shares or ADSs, our investors who are non-PRC resident enterprises may be subject to additional PRC reporting obligations or tax burdens. Further, in the case that our non-PRC resident enterprise investors are required but fail to comply with Circular 698 requirements, the PRC tax authorities may take actions including requesting us to provide assistance for their investigation, which could lead to additional obligations to be fulfilled by the company. In addition, the PRC State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, promulgated Administrative Measures on the General Anti-Avoidance Rule (Trial), or GAAR Measures, on December 12, 2014, which shows the authority's intention to fight against tax avoidance scheme that is adopted to obtain unwarranted tax benefit without reasonable commercial purpose. A press release, made by the State Administration of Taxation to clarify certain issues relating to the application of the GAAR Measures, stated that the GAAR Measures may be applicable if any general tax-avoidance scheme exists in the offshore indirect transfer of equity interests. Since GAAR Measures was recently promulgated and it is unclear how this set of measures, and any future implementation rules thereof, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant governmental authorities, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operation, future acquisitions or strategy. The SAT released the Bulletin on Certain Issues relating to Indirect Transfer of Assets by Non-resident Enterprises, or SAT Bulletin 7, on February 3, 2015, which clarifies several provisions in Circular 698, expands the applicable scope thereof and provides a comprehensive guidance on non-residents' indirect assets transfer. SAT Bulletin 7 took effect on the issuance date, but it also applies to transactions concluded before the issuance date but the tax treatment therefore has yet to be decided upon by the Chinese tax authorities. SAT Bulletin 7 expanded the scope of the subject assets of the indirect transfer to cover not only equity investment in Chinese resident enterprises, but also assets attributable to an establishment in China and immovables situated in China, collectively defined as "Chinese Taxable Assets." It also provides a list of factors to assess whether a transfer arrangement may be deemed as having reasonable commercial purpose, as well as a set of threshold tests for determining the arrangement that shall be directly regarded as without reasonable commercial purpose. In addition, SAT Bulletin 7 has lifted the burden of mandatory reporting requirement and shifted the regime to a more relaxed voluntary reporting system, but it still grants the Chinese tax authority the right to require relevant parties to fill necessary documents if it so determines. Furthermore, a safe harbor for qualifying group reorganization has been carved out by SAT Bulletin 7, falling under which no Chinese tax exposure will arise. Since GAAR Measures and SAT Bulletin 7 were recently promulgated and it is unclear how this set of measures and regulations, and any future implementation rules thereof, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant governmental authorities, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operation, future acquisitions or strategy. Risks Related to Our Shares and ADSs There can be no assurance that the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated April 26, 2015 and the going private transaction contemplated thereby will be approved by our shareholders or successfully consummated. Potential uncertainty involving the going private transaction may adversely affect our business and the market price of our ADSs. Our board of directors received a preliminary non-binding proposal letter dated December 31, 2014 from our founder and chairman of the board of directors, Mr. Michael Yufeng Chi, to acquire all of our outstanding ordinary shares not already directly or indirectly owned by him in a going private transaction for US$20.0 per ADS in cash, or US$4.0 per ordinary share in cash. Our board of directors formed a special committee of independent directors, or the Special Committee, on January 2, 2015 to consider and evaluate the proposal and any other alternative proposals or other strategic alternatives that may be available to our company, and to negotiate the terms of any potential definitive agreement. 33 Table of Contents On April 26, 2015, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Perfect Peony Holding Company Limited, or Parent, a Cayman Islands company beneficially owned by Mr. Michael Yufeng Chi, and Perfect World Merger Company Limited, or Merger Sub, a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent. Subject to satisfaction of the Merger Agreement's terms and conditions, Merger Sub will merge with and into our company, with our company continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent. Each of our ordinary shares or ADSs will be cancelled in exchange for the right to receive US$4.04 per ordinary share or US$20.20 per ADS in cash without interest, except for shares, including such shares represented by ADSs, already directly or indirectly owned by Mr. Michael Yufeng Chi, and shares held by shareholders who have validly exercised and not effectively withdrawn or lost their rights to dissent from the merger. The merger is subject to customary closing conditions including the approval of the Merger Agreement by an affirmative vote of holders of shares representing at least two-thirds of the voting power of the shares present and voting in person or by proxy at a meeting of our shareholders which will be convened to consider the approval of the Merger Agreement and the merger. As of April 26, 2015, Mr. Michael Yufeng Chi controlled 56.0% of the voting power of our company. However, there can be no assurance that the merger will be approved by sufficient affirmative vote or consummated. The merger, whether or not consummated, presents a risk of diverting management focus, employee attention and resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters. In addition, we are subject to various restrictions under the Merger Agreement on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the merger, which may delay or prevent us from undertaking business opportunities that may arise pending completion of the merger. Also, the development of the merger, such as completion of the merger or termination of the Merger Agreement, may increase volatility of the trading price of our ADSs. The market price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During the period from January 1, 2010 until April 24, 2015, the trading price of our ADSs has ranged from US$8.44 to US$44.63 per ADS and the closing sale price on April 29, 2015 was US$19.54 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the online game industry; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other online game companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services, new revenue models, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies; • actual or potential litigation or administrative investigations; • negative news or perceptions about inadequate corporate governance practices or fraudulent accounting or matters of other Chinese companies that negatively affect the attitudes of investors towards Chinese companies in general; • harassing or other detrimental conducts by third parties that harm our reputation; and 34 Table of Contents • general economic or political conditions in China or any other country where one or more of our games are operated. Volatility in global capital markets could also have an effect on the market price of our ADSs. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ordinary shares, the prevailing market price for our ADSs could be adversely affected. In addition, if we pay for our future acquisitions in whole or in part with additionally issued ordinary shares or ADSs, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. Our dual-class ordinary share structure with different voting rights could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class B ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to 10 votes per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share. Due to the disparate voting powers attached to these two classes, certain shareholders have significant voting power over matters requiring shareholder approval, including election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of Class B ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial and therefore might have a negative impact on the price of our ADSs. Our board of directors received a preliminary non-binding proposal letter dated December 31, 2014 from our founder and chairman of the board of directors, Mr. Michael Yufeng Chi, to acquire all of our outstanding ordinary shares not already directly or indirectly beneficially owned by him. On April 26, 2015, we entered into a Merger Agreement with entities controlled by Mr. Chi. As of April 26, 2015, Mr. Chi controlled 56.0% of the voting power of our company. The voting power held by Mr. Chi in our company may effectively prevent a competing bid for our company. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. 35 Table of Contents You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, sell such undistributed rights to third parties in this situation. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct a majority of our operations in China and most of our officers and directors reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct a majority of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries in China. Most of our officers and directors reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. It may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an original action against us or against these individuals in a Cayman Islands or Chinese court in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. You would also find it difficult to enforce a U.S. court judgment based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, in the United States, the Cayman Islands or China, against us or our officers and directors. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2013 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by non-controlling shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, shareholders of Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. 36 Table of Contents As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. A non-U.S. corporation, such as our company, will be a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. We disclosed in our annual reports for 2012 and 2013 that we may have been a PFIC in prior taxable years. Similarly, we believe we may have been a PFIC for our taxable year ended December 31, 2014, as well. This determination is made based on our significant cash balances, the market price of the ADSs and ordinary shares, and the composition of our income and assets. However, because the application of the PFIC rules to our facts and circumstances is unclear in many important legal and factual respects, and the required calculations for 2014 yielded results that were close to the line, no assurances may be given in this regard. A U.S. Holder (as defined in "Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation") who owned (or owns) our ADSs or ordinary shares at any time when we were (or are) a PFIC will generally be subject to reporting requirements and may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or certain other dispositions of our ADSs or ordinary shares and on the receipt of distributions on the ADSs or ordinary shares to the extent such distributions are treated as "excess distributions" under U.S. federal income tax rules. Such a U.S. Holder also generally will not be able to benefit from any preferential tax rate with respect to any dividend distribution that such U.S. Holder receives from us in a year in which we are a PFIC (or are treated as such with respect to such holder) or the following year. Certain elections may be available, however, that may mitigate certain of these adverse tax consequences to varying degrees. U.S. Holders are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the passive foreign investment company rules. We must make a separate determination after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Accordingly, we may continue to be, or become, a PFIC in 2015 or future taxable years. Further, although the law in this regard is unclear, we treat our variable interest entities as being owned by us for U.S. federal income tax purposes, not only because we control their management decisions but also because we are entitled to substantially all of the economic benefits associated with these entities, and, as a result, we consolidate these entities' operating results in our consolidated U.S. GAAP financial statements. If it were determined, however, that we were not the owner of our variable interest entities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then we would likely be treated as a PFIC even if we would not otherwise have been treated as a PFIC for that particular year. We have not sought a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, with respect to our PFIC status. In the event that we determine that we are not a PFIC in 2015 or in a future taxable year, there can be no assurance that the IRS or a court will agree with our determination. Provided we are a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC as to such U.S. Holder for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, unless we cease to be a PFIC and the U.S. Holder makes a deemed sale election with respect to our ADSs or ordinary shares. For more information, see "Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company." We urge investors in our ADSs and ordinary shares to consult their tax advisors concerning the U.S. federal income tax consequences of acquiring, holding and disposing of our ADSs or ordinary shares. 37 Table of Contents 