Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report. We are subject to a number of risks. The market price of our common stock and warrants could decline due to any of the risks discussed below, in which case you could lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information included in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and accompanying notes. We face risks common to newly acquired or newly built operations in the United States. Separately, because we operate in China, we are subject to legal and regulatory environments that differ in many respects from those of the United States. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely by any of the risks discussed below. Risks Related to Our Company We are involved in litigation with Xu Hong Bin, China Water’s former president and chairman, related to our intended cancellation of approximately 5.3 million shares of our common stock held by Xu, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty. As more fully described in Part I, Item 3—Legal Proceedings, of this Annual Report, Xu Hong Bin has filed a lawsuit against us claiming that our intended cancellation of his shares is a breach of an escrow resolution and transition agreement that we entered into with him. We filed a vigorous countersuit expanding our claims against Xu and seeking recovery of not only the stock at issue, but also cash paid to Xu in connection with our acquisition of China Water and cash misappropriated by Xu. Although we believe that we will prevail in our countersuit, no assurance can be given that the outcome of the litigation will be in our favor or, in the event that it is, that a court will award us the full amount of damages that we are seeking. Also, we may determine that it is in the best interests of the Company to settle our claims against Xu for less than the amount of damages we are seeking in our countersuit. The resolution of this litigation could have a material effect on our financial condition. A business strategy of making acquisitions subjects us to all of the risks inherent in identifying, acquiring and operating newly acquired businesses. We face all the risks associated with such a strategy, including, but not limited to: • the potential disruption of our existing businesses, including the diversion of management attention and the redeployment of resources; • entering new markets or industries in which we have limited prior experience; • failure to identify in due diligence key issues specific to the businesses we seek to acquire or the industries or other environments in which they operate, or, failure to protect against contingent liabilities arising from those issues; • difficulties in integrating, aligning and coordinating organizations which will likely be geographically separated and may involve diverse business operations and corporate cultures; • difficulties in integrating and retaining key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel; • difficulties in incorporating the acquired business into our organization; • the potential loss of customers, distributors or suppliers; • difficulties in integrating or expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; • risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems; • the potential for future impairments of goodwill if the acquired business does not perform as expected; 9 Table of Contents • the inability to obtain necessary government approvals for the acquisition, if any; and • successfully operating the acquired business. If we cannot overcome these challenges, we may not realize actual benefits from past and future acquisitions, which will impair our overall business results. If we complete an investment or acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction. The process of targeting, selecting, acquiring, and operating newly acquired businesses is time consuming and potentially expensive. We may be unable to identify other suitable investment or acquisition candidates or may be unable to make these investments or acquisitions on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we use stock as consideration, this would have a dilutive effect on existing stockholders. If we use cash, this would reduce our liquidity and impact our financial flexibility. We may seek debt financing for particular acquisitions, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Future charges due to possible impairments of acquired assets may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our assets is comprised of goodwill and other intangible assets, which may be subject to future impairment that would result in financial statement write-offs. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent approximately 10% of our total assets at December 31, 2009. If there is a material change in our business operations or prospects, the value of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future could decrease significantly. On an ongoing basis and at least annually, we will evaluate, partially based on discounted expected future cash flows, whether the carrying value of such intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets, although not requiring any additional cash outlay, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Fallout from the global financial crisis could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Overall consumption was reduced following the global financial and credit crisis, and we expect continued cautious spending in 2010 relating to consumer consumption of bottled water products in China, and consumer and industrial consumption of natural gas in the United States. Our international operations could be impacted in 2010 as a result of cautious spending or if Chinese consumer consumption is flat or lower than estimated. Our domestic operations could be impacted if consumer and industrial consumption of natural gas is reduced to the point of causing our energy customers to reduce drilling and exploration expenditures and thereby reduce their demand for our water handling services. Separately, the global financial and credit crisis has negatively impacted returns on our cash and investments, and we expect this to continue through 2010. We do not believe that the estimates provided to us by China Water in connection with our acquisition will be achieved in 2010. During our due diligence investigation of China Water in connection with its acquisition by us, we were presented with estimated levels of pro forma annualized revenue and net income that China Water could achieve by the end of 2008 and forward. This forward-looking information pre-dated the worldwide crisis in financial and credit markets and was based on our review of internal financial projections prepared by China Water, general due diligence, and anticipated benefits from plant expansions and acquisitions. Also, after taking over, we discovered financial irregularities, misdirected funds, receivables overstatements, deposit overstatements, and operating and accounting deficiencies that caused us to take substantial impairment charges to goodwill, write downs of purported acquisition deposits, receivables reserve adjustments, and write offs of receivables. We expect that our revenues and net income for 2010 will be lower than we originally forecast. The consequences of this determination could include a decline in our stock price. 10 Table of Contents We are subject to litigation risks, which may be costly to defend and the outcome of which is uncertain. All industries, including those businesses in our domestic and international segments, are subject to legal claims. As a public company we are particularly susceptible to securities and derivative lawsuits. These claims may be costly to defend and divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to succeed will largely depend upon the efforts of our directors and officers, and in particular our chief executive officer, Mr. Richard J. Heckmann. The loss of Mr. Heckmann could affect our ability to operate. Our ability to succeed is largely dependent upon the efforts of our officers and directors, especially Mr. Heckmann, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Even though we believe that our success depends on the continued services of Mr. Heckmann, we have not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Heckmann, nor obtained “key man” life insurance. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that Mr. Heckmann will remain with the company for the immediate or foreseeable future. In addition, though Mr. Heckmann has expressed a commitment of his full time to our success, he is not required to commit any specified amount of time to the company’s affairs and, as a result, he may have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying more potential business acquisitions and monitoring the related due diligence and closing process. The loss of the services of Mr. Heckmann or any other of our other executive officers and directors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully achieve our business objectives. There are material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and thereby cause a decline in our stock price. We inherited, and have undertaken to fix and remediate certain previously reported and currently reported weaknesses in China Water’s internal controls over financial reporting. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” We continue efforts toward remediation of China Water’s control deficiencies. However, if we are unable to address these or other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, this might result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting deadlines, and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. The results of China Water during the 10 month pre-acquisition period ended October 30, 2008 have not been audited. We have included in this report pro forma operating results of China Water for the ten months ended October 31, 2008, which is based in part on unaudited information of China Water for the year ended December 31, 2008. Changes could be required to this information if it were to be audited, and there can be no assurance those changes will not be material. Further, China Water’s actual operating results may differ, and those differences may be material, from the pro forma operating results. Changes to the fair market or carrying value of our investments in China Bottles, Inc. and UGSI could affect the value of our investment and any potential recordable income from the investments, which could result in a substantial write down. We own 48% of the outstanding equity of China Bottles, Inc. (“China Bottles”), a manufacturer of bottling equipment and provider of contract manufacturing and finished product services. At December 31, 2009, our investment in China Bottles totaled $4.0 million, and our ability to estimate the market value of our shares of 11 Table of Contents China Bottles common stock is limited to management’s estimate only since China Bottles is no longer providing data to the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board or similar system for observable market value. We own 7% of UGSI, a supplier of water infrastructure pipeline products. In 2009, through two separate purchases, we acquired shares of their common and convertible preferred stock for a total investment of $7.2 million dollars. At December 31, 2009, the market value of our shares was approximately $12.4 million (based on the closing market price on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board). China Bottles has a significant insider ownership, the observable market price of UGSI’s stock has been volatile, and there is no liquidity in either stock. Changes to the fair market or carrying value of our investment in China Bottles or UGSI could affect the value of our investments and any potential recordable income from the investments, which could result in a substantial write down. Risks Related to our Domestic Segment’s Business Operations We have operated our recently acquired water disposal and pipeline business for just two quarters, and we may not achieve all the benefits anticipated. On July 1, 2009, we purchased the assets underlying the business of HWR. The purchase could subject us to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, geopolitical events affecting the expansion plans of our customers, domestic political issues affecting the energy industry generally such as energy and tax legislation unfavorable to our customers that directly influences their capital expenditure and exploration plans, fluctuations in commodity prices that impact our customers’ expansion plans, near term integration and management challenges typical to acquisitions, and unforeseen interruptions in our newly operational pipeline. We have operated HWR’s business for just two quarters and continue to evaluate and determine the risks to which it is subject and therefore we can offer no assurance that we will achieve all the benefits anticipated. Our new pipeline operations and expansion plans could be delayed. We recently constructed a new pipeline and we are expanding our existing disposal capacity in order to accommodate much greater volumes of disposed water. Construction of our new pipeline in the Haynesville Play was substantially completed on January 30, 2010. Successful consistent operation could be impacted by inclement weather, land use and right of way disputes, equipment breakdowns, delays common to start up of complex construction and engineering equipment and systems, pipe, and measurement devices, installation interruptions, and operational safety, testing and troubleshooting of interdependent systems. Although we believe we have allocated all the necessary resources to insure consistent operation, any unforeseen interruptions could delay or negatively impact the realization of our business plans and have a material impact on our anticipated new pipeline revenues. Our initial anticipated revenue from new pipeline operations is currently from three principal customers. HWR has pre-sold approximately 46% of our new pipeline capacity to three principal customers under multi-year contracts with guaranteed minimum volumes and guaranteed minimum prices that reflect early adoption rates. These customers (Exco Production Company, El Paso E&P Company, and Encana Oil & Gas USA Inc.) are large, well capitalized public companies that we anticipate doing business with for the full term of these contracts. Even so, any unforeseen reduction or interruption concerning the operations of these initial principal customers that results in reduced water volume deliveries to us, or their refusal to make the minimum contractually agreed payments, could have a material impact on our initial anticipated pipeline revenues. Separately, we intend to sell the remaining 54% of the pipeline capacity over time to a larger group of customers under a combination of short and long term volume guarantees and at differing prices. If we do not sell the remaining capacity as soon as it is available, or if we sell it at rates different than anticipated, there could be a material impact on our anticipated new pipeline revenues. 12 Table of Contents A portion of our domestic business will be operated through a joint venture in which our rights to control business decisions are limited. A portion of our domestic business going forward will be generated through Energy Transfer Water Solutions JV, LLC, our joint venture with Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. (“ETP”) in which we hold a 50% ownership interest. We have less control over business decisions affecting this joint venture than we have in our wholly-owned businesses. In particular, we generally cannot act on major business initiatives for Energy Transfer Water Solutions JV, LLC without the consent of ETP. As a result, for this joint venture to operate efficiently, we and ETP must be in agreement on strategic, operational, funding and other matters. There is a significant risk that, as a result of differing views and priorities, there will be occasions when we do not agree on various matters related to the operation of the joint venture which could result in delays or changes in operations that could materially harm our prospects or even lead to dissolution of the joint venture. Our joint venture has not commenced operations. On February 9, 2010, we announced a joint venture with ETP to develop water pipeline infrastructure and treatment solutions for oil and gas producers in the Marcellus and Haynesville Shale fields, and potentially other areas within the states of New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia, Virginia, Tennessee, Kentucky, Texas and Louisiana. The joint venture is designed to accomplish this by laying water transport pipelines alongside natural gas pipelines which may transport water in both directions—complex or fluid laden water from oil and natural gas drilling fields to treatment and disposal facilities, and fresh and/or remediated water to oil and natural gas drilling fields. Where applicable, our joint venture projects may also extend water transport and treatment services to mining companies and coal and electric utilities. Our joint venture has not commenced operations and does not have any agreements with any customers. The process of identifying a new potential customer, negotiating and entering into a services agreement, and constructing related pipelines and treatment and disposal facilities will require a significant investment of time and capital. If we are unable to complete this process efficiently, we may not achieve our goals for our joint venture and the price of our stock could decline. Any interruption in our services due to pipeline breakdowns or necessary maintenance could impair our financial performance and negatively affect our brand. Our current and future water transport pipelines are susceptible to breakdown and require ongoing maintenance. We may experience difficulties in maintaining the operation of our pipelines, thereby causing downtime and delays. Any interruption in our services due to pipeline breakdowns or necessary maintenance could reduce sales revenues and earnings. If there are interruptions, even if only temporary, our business and reputation could be severely harmed. Our domestic segment’s operations may fluctuate due to seasonality and commodity fluctuations. Our domestic water handling sales are subject to seasonality factors and the fluctuation of commodity futures. Extreme weather has historically reduced our total handling volumes because a portion of the water we receive is delivered via overland trucking. Also, we are negatively leveraged to fluctuating natural gas prices in the sense that our customers could alter drilling and capital expense plans if long term futures turned down substantially. Changes to the existing environmental laws and regulations governing the transport and disposal of produced water may cause us to incur additional costs that could have an adverse impact on our financial position, and we may not be able to comply with such laws and regulations. Our domestic segment operations are subject to federal and state environmental laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face substantial fines, suspension of operations and loss of necessary permits. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with such laws and regulations. There also can be no assurance that there will not be changes to existing laws or regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant additional costs that we cannot pass on to customers through higher prices. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our International Segment’s Business Operations We face risks associated with recent acquisitions by China Water and if we fail to successfully integrate these acquired businesses our operating results will be negatively affected. Within the past three years, our China Water subsidiary acquired outright control or a controlling interest in several businesses through acquisition. The ongoing process of integrating these businesses is distracting, time consuming, expensive, and requires continuous optimization and allocation of resources. Geographic distance between business operations, the compatibility of the technologies and operations being integrated, and combining disparate corporate cultures also present significant challenges. The acquired businesses also have different standards, controls, contracts, procedures, and policies, making it difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information, and other systems. Continuing the successful integration of the recently acquired companies will require us to integrate and retain key management and other personnel, incorporate the acquired products or capabilities into our product offerings from an engineering, sales and marketing perspective, coordinate research and development efforts, integrate and support pre-existing supplier, distribution and customer relationships, and combine or centralize back office accounting, order processing, purchasing, and support functions. China Water’s focus on integrating operations may also distract attention from China Water’s day-to-day business and may disrupt key research and development, marketing, or sales efforts. If China Water cannot overcome these challenges, we may not realize actual benefits from past and future acquisitions, which will impair our overall business results. Part of our strategy for China Water involves the development of new products and if we fail to timely develop new products or incorrectly gauge the potential market for new products, our financial results may suffer. We are developing new bottled water products, such as flavored water, juices, teas, oxygenated water and nutrient-enriched bottled water products that could become new sources of revenue for us in the future and help us to diversify our revenue base. Part of our future development efforts will be focused on expanding our product offerings. If we fail to timely develop new products or if we miscalculate market demand for new products in development, we may not be able to grow our sales revenue sufficiently to outpace our product development expenses. The revenues of our China business are highly concentrated in a single customer, Coca-Cola China, and we would be harmed if Coca-Cola China reduces its orders. In the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 63% of sales in China and 57% of our total sales were made to Coca-Cola China. Coca-Cola China resells our bottled water products. We believe that our relationship with Coca-Cola China provides consistent sales and credibility for us in our target markets. However, the arrangements with Coca-Cola China do not impose minimum purchase commitments upon Coca-Cola China, and they are not exclusive. If Coca-Cola China discontinues or reduces purchases and we are unable to generate replacement sales from new and existing customers, our revenue and net income would decline considerably. Also, because the margins on our sales to Coca-Cola China are generally lower than on our sales to other customers and through distributors, if sales to Coca-Cola China increase as a percentage of overall sales, then our margins would decline. We face increasing competition which may negatively impact our market share and profit margins. The bottled water industry in China is highly competitive, and we anticipate it will become even more competitive in the future. We compete with domestic Chinese bottled water producers including Hangzhou Wahaha Group, Nongfu Spring Company Ltd., and Guangdong Robust Corp., and with global beverage companies and brands including Nestle S.A, Coca-Cola, C’est Bon, Danone, Tingyi Master Kong, and Uni-President. Some of our competitors have been in business longer, some have substantially greater financial and other resources, and some are better established in their markets. Some may also benefit from raw material sources or production facilities that are closer to their markets, thereby giving them a competitive advantage in terms of cost and proximity to consumers. 14 Table of Contents Currently, there are several thousand water brands in China, including those offered by domestic and foreign-invested enterprises. Our ability to compete against these enterprises will depend on our continuing ability to leverage our brand recognition and to distinguish our products by providing quality products at reasonable prices that appeal to wide consumer tastes and preferences. Some of our competitors may provide products comparable or superior to ours, or adapt more quickly to consumer trends or changing market requirements. Significant consolidation among our competitors is also possible. Increased competition may lead our competitors to substantially increase their advertising expenditures and promotional activities or to engage in irrational or predatory pricing behavior. Third parties may actively engage in activities, whether legal or illegal, designed to undermine our brand name and product quality or to influence consumer confidence in our products. These activities may result in price reductions, reduced margins, and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our profit margins. As a result, we may not be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors. Any interruption in our production could impair our financial performance and negatively affect our brand. We produce bottled water products at eight facilities in China. Our manufacturing operations are complicated and integrated, involving the coordination of sourcing of water and other raw materials from third parties, internal production processes, and external distribution processes. While these operations are modified on a regular basis in an effort to improve manufacturing and distribution efficiency and flexibility, we may experience difficulties in coordinating the various aspects of our manufacturing processes, thereby causing downtime and delays. We may encounter interruptions in our manufacturing processes due to events beyond our control, such as fires, explosions, labor disturbances or violent weather conditions. Any interruptions in production could reduce sales revenue and earnings. If there are interruptions at any of our production facilities, even if only temporary, or delays in delivery times to our customers, our business and reputation could be severely harmed. Any significant delays in deliveries to our distributors or customers could also lead to increased returns or cancellations and cause us to lose future sales. Limitations on or the unavailability of natural resources or energy resources needed to operate our business in China would impair our profitability. In order to produce our bottled water products in China, we need a readily available supply of water and electricity. We depend mainly on municipal water supplies to provide the water used in our products and on regulated electric companies to provide us with the electricity needed for our production facilities. In the year ended December 31, 2009 approximately 66% of our water was sourced from municipal water supplies and the remaining 34% was sourced from ground water. It is possible that municipal governments could put usage limits on these water resources in situations when water reserves for their cities are low or curtail electricity usage when the demand for energy resources is high relative to supply. Our business operations, income, and profits would be highly impaired if such limits are imposed. Increases in raw material prices that we are unable to pass on to our customers would reduce profit margins. The principal raw materials used in our production, including water, bottled water containers, caps and packaging materials, are subject to a high degree of price volatility caused by external conditions. In particular, the PET we use to manufacture our bottles is petroleum based, and therefore subject to significant price fluctuations. In the year ended December 31, 2009 PET accounted for approximately 52% of our cost of goods sold. Oil prices have fluctuated at record velocity in recent years and the prices we pay for oil products and other raw materials may escalate in the future. Price changes to our raw materials may result in unexpected increases in production, packaging, and distribution costs, and we may be unable to increase the prices of our products to offset these increased costs. If so, we would suffer a reduction in our profit margins. 15 Table of Contents Any difficulties or delays in delivery or poor handling by distributors and third party transport operators may affect our sales and damage our reputation. In China, we sell our own brands of bottled water through distributors. In the year ended December 31, 2009, our three largest distributors accounted for approximately 10% of total sales. The delivery of our products by distributors to retailers could be delayed or interrupted in the case of unforeseen events and disruptions that occur for various reasons beyond our control, including poor handling by distributors or third party transport operators, transportation bottlenecks, natural disasters, and labor strikes. Poor handling by distributors and third-party transport operators could also result in damage to our products. If our products are not delivered to retailers on time, or are delivered damaged, we could lose business and our reputation could be harmed. We may ineffectively allocate and balance the supply of our bottled water products among our distribution channels. We market and sell our bottled water products to distributors that sell them to end users under our own brands, to major global drink and beverage companies, and to other corporations, hotels, and casinos on a private label basis. Like any other manufacturer or producer of products, we have limited production capacity and there are times when we are resource and capacity constrained. As our production capacity reaches its limit, it becomes more difficult for us to produce, balance, and allocate our bottled water products for sales through our various distribution and sales channels. If we fail to strike an appropriate balance in producing and delivering our products for sale through our network of sales and distribution channels, we may be unsuccessful in meeting the relative demands of our distributors and the consumer market, which would hurt our sales, reputation, and relationships with distributors and customers. Our products may become subject to recall in the event of defects or other performance related issues. Our bottled water products have never been the subject of an open recall. However, like many other bottled water producers in China, we are at risk for product recall costs if a product is recalled due to a known or suspected contamination or other health or performance related defect. Costs typically include the cost of the product being replaced, the cost of the recall borne by our distributors, and the cost of removing our products from the market. If a recall decision is made, we will need to estimate the cost of the recall and record a charge to earnings. In making this estimate, judgment is required as to the quantity or volume to be recalled, the total cost of the recall campaign, and the ultimate negotiated sharing of the cost between us and our customers. Excessive recall costs or our failure to adequately estimate these costs may negatively affect our operating results. Recalls could also create reputational damage that materially affects our business. Our results of operations may fluctuate due to seasonality. Our sales in China are subject to seasonality factors. We typically experience higher sales of bottled water in the summer time in coastal cities while sales remain constant throughout the entire year in some inland cities. In general, our sales are higher in the second and third quarters of the year when the weather is hot and dry, and lower in the first and fourth quarters when the weather is cold and wet. Sales can fluctuate throughout the year for a number of other reasons, including the timing of advertising and promotional campaigns, and unforeseen circumstances, such as production interruptions. Changes to the existing environmental and food and hygiene laws and regulations in China may cause us to incur additional costs that could have an adverse impact on our financial position, and we may not be able to comply with such laws and regulations. As a China based bottled water producer, we are subject to the environmental and food and hygiene laws and regulations of China. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could face substantial fines, 16 Table of Contents suspension of operations by China’s government, loss of necessary licenses and, in the case of serious noncompliance with China’s food and hygiene laws, we and our management may be subject to criminal proceedings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with such laws or regulations. There can also be no assurance that the Chinese government will not change the existing laws or regulations or impose additional or stricter laws or regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant additional costs that we cannot pass on to customers through higher prices. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of China’s government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business. We conduct operations and generate a portion of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the higher level of government involvement in commercial activities; • the early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; • the rapid growth rate; • the higher level of control over foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. As China’s economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, China’s government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall Chinese economy, they may also have a negative effect on our China business. Although China’s government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, China’s government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for China Water’s products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Uncertainties with respect to China’s legal system could limit the legal protections available to the Company and its stockholders. We conduct business through China Water’s operating subsidiaries in China. China Water’s operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. China’s legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new Chinese laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since China’s legal system continues to evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us and our stockholders. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 17 Table of Contents China’s government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. China’s government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in China’s laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that China Water’s bottled water production operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which China Water operates may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require the Company to divest itself of any interest it then holds in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Past or future violations of complicated Chinese regulations governing merger and acquisition activity involving domestic Chinese companies could materially adversely affect our business. Our past and any future acquisitions of Chinese operating companies are subject to complicated Chinese regulations governing merger and acquisition activity. On August 8, 2006, six Chinese regulatory agencies, including the China Securities Regulatory Commission, promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, which became effective on September 8, 2006. This new regulation, among other things, governs the approval process by which a Chinese company may participate in an acquisition of assets or equity interests. Depending on the structure of the transaction, the new regulation will require the Chinese parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with the new regulations is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government can now exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to the new regulation, business combination transactions in China became significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive. In October 2005, China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75. Circular 75 requires Chinese residents to register with an applicable branch of SAFE before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China that is supported by domestic Chinese assets originally held by those residents. Following the issuance of Circular 75, SAFE issued internal implementing guidelines for Circular 75 in June 2007. These implementing guidelines, known as Notice 106, effectively expanded the reach of Circular 75 by: • purporting to regulate the establishment or acquisition of control by Chinese residents of offshore entities which merely acquire “control” over domestic companies or assets, even in the absence of legal ownership; • adding requirements relating to the source of the Chinese resident’s funds used to establish or acquire the offshore entity; • regulating the use of existing offshore entities for offshore financings; • purporting to regulate situations in which an offshore entity establishes a new subsidiary in China or acquires an unrelated company or unrelated assets in China; 18 Table of Contents • making the domestic affiliate of the offshore entity responsible for the accuracy of certain documents which must be filed in connection with any such registration, notably, the business plan which describes the overseas financing and the use of proceeds; and • requiring that the registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the offshore entity and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. No assurance can be given that our stockholders who are Chinese residents as defined in Circular 75, and who owned China Water or any of its China based subsidiaries prior to our acquisition of China Water, have fully complied with, and will continue to comply with, all applicable registration and approval requirements of Circular 75 in connection with their equity interests in the Company and the Company’s acquisition of equity interests in its China based subsidiaries by virtue of our acquisition of China Water. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to the Company following the China Water acquisition, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, the ability of our present and prospective China subsidiaries to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 by our Chinese resident beneficial holders. In addition, such Chinese residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75. We have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. If our Chinese stockholders or the Chinese stockholders of the target companies we acquired in the past or acquire in the future fail to comply with Circular 75, if SAFE requires it, they may be subject to fines or legal sanctions, and Chinese authorities could restrict our investment activities in China, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends, or even unwind the transaction and revoke the right of our subsidiaries to do business in China. If our Chinese stockholders or the Chinese stockholders of the target companies we acquired in the past or acquire in the future fail to obtain any required Chinese governmental approvals in connection with our acquisition of such companies, they may be subject to fines or legal sanctions, and Chinese authorities could restrict our investment activities in China, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends, or even unwind the transaction and revoke the right of our subsidiaries to do business in China. China Water’s business will suffer if it loses its land use rights. There is no private ownership of land in China and all land ownership is held by the government of China, its agencies, and collectives. Land use rights can be obtained from the government for a period up to 70 years, and are typically renewable. Land use rights can be transferred upon approval by the land administrative authorities of China (State Land Administration Bureau) upon payment of the required land transfer fee. China Water holds land use rights for some of its occupied properties and leases property from third parties that it believes have proper land use rights, but no assurance can be given that these land use rights will be renewed or that China Water’s lessors will maintain their land use rights. If China Water or any of its lessors lose their land use right certificates, China Water may lose production facilities that would be difficult or impossible to replace. Should it have to relocate, China Water’s workforce may be unable or unwilling to work in the new location and its operations will be disrupted during the relocation. The relocation or loss of facilities could cause China Water to lose sales and/or increase its costs of production, which would negatively impact our financial results. Any failure to fully comply with China’s labor laws could cause potential liability. Companies operating in China must comply with a variety of labor laws. Certain of these labor laws require Chinese companies to have an executed labor contract with employees and make certain pension, housing, and other welfare-oriented payments. For a period of time in 2007, most of China Water’s operating subsidiaries failed to have in place effective labor contracts with each of their employees and failed to make related payments in violation of applicable Chinese labor laws. In 2008, China Water took corrective actions by entering into the required labor contracts and made the payments as required under China’s labor laws. Although China Water 19 Table of Contents believes these actions are sufficient to ensure that it is currently in compliance with applicable Chinese labor laws and are the appropriate remediative measures, no assurance can be given that China’s governmental authorities will concur with such a view and will not impose additional penalties. Accounting laws in China mandate accounting practices which may not be consistent with United States generally accepted accounting principles and therefore our financials and their interpretation involve uncertainties. China’s accounting laws require an annual “statutory audit” to be performed in accordance with China’s accounting standards and the books of foreign invested enterprises to be maintained in accordance with Chinese accounting laws. These Chinese accounting practices may not be consistent with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Article 14 of China’s Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise Law requires a wholly foreign-owned enterprise to submit certain periodic fiscal reports and statements to designated financial and tax authorities. China Water’s China based operating subsidiaries are all considered wholly foreign-owned enterprises and, as such, must maintain financial statements in accordance with Chinese accounting practices in order to meet its filing obligations under China’s Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise Law. The translation of these financial statements from the requirements of China to United States GAAP requires interpretation and exercise of judgment. This may increase costs, cause inaccuracies or misstatements that could negatively impact our ability to get a clean audit opinion in the United States or may lead to fines by certain governmental bodies, which would negatively impact our financial performance and/or stock price. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use sales revenue effectively. Substantially all of our international segment sales revenue and expenses is denominated in RMB. Under Chinese law, the RMB is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, China Water’s China based operating subsidiaries may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to the Company, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant Chinese government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our international segment future revenue will be denominated in RMB, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by China operating subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with Chinese government authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our China operating subsidiaries borrow foreign currency through loans from the Company or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if the Company finances the subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect China Water’s ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock is indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between United States dollars and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which sales may be denominated. Because substantially all of our earnings and cash assets are denominated in RMB, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the United States dollar would affect our financial results reported in United States dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend China Water may issue to the Company that will be exchanged into United States dollars and earnings from, and the value of, any United States dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. 20 Table of Contents Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the United States dollar at a constant exchange rate. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate within a flexible peg range against the United States dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future Chinese authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by China’s exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, some of China Water’s raw materials and major equipment are imported. In the event that the United States dollar or other currencies appreciate against RMB, costs of such materials and equipment will increase. If China Water cannot pass-through the resulting cost increases on to its customers, profitability and operating results will suffer. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stockholders would experience substantial dilution in their investment as a result of subsequent exercises of outstanding warrants and the issuance of additional shares of common stock. We have approximately 70.8 million shares subject to outstanding warrants, the exercise of which will dilute the investment of our existing stockholders. We may also issue shares in future acquisitions that would also be dilutive. Our stock price could be affected because a substantial number of shares of our common stock will be available for sale in the future. As of March 10, 2010, we had 108,750,650 shares of our common stock outstanding, all of which have been listed for trading according to the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. We had outstanding, as of March 10, 2010, 68.1 million public warrants and 2.7 million private warrants to acquire an additional approximately 70.8 million shares of our common stock. The public warrants are exerciseable at a strike price of $6.00 through November 9, 2011 and we are required to reserve sufficient common stock to support actual exercise. If a significant number of our warrants are exercised for shares of our common stock, our stock price could decline due to the increase in our number of common shares outstanding. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors in our securities. The stock markets in general and the markets for stock of companies with significant operations in China in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may also fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; 21 Table of Contents • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitments, new products or product enhancements; • loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; and • additions or departures of key personnel. The trading price of our common stock since our IPO has ranged from a high of $10.44 on the New York Stock Exchange on September 3, 2008 to a low of $3.38 on July 10, 2009. The last reported price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on March 10, 2010 was $6.19 per share. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. We currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock. While we may declare dividends at some point in the future, we cannot assure you that you will ever receive cash dividends as a result of ownership of our common stock and any gains from investment in our common stock may only come from increases in our stock prices, if any. We are subject to anti-takeover effects of certain charter and bylaw provisions and Delaware law, as well as of our substantial insider ownership. We have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that: • make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, and discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us; • may limit the price some investors are willing to pay for our common stock; • enable us to issue preferred stock without a vote of our stockholders or other stockholder action; • provide for a classified Board of Directors (the “Board”) and regulate nominations for the Board; • make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain corporate actions; and • may delay or prevent a change of control. These and other provisions of our charter documents, certain provisions of Delaware law and our substantial insider ownership could delay or make more difficult certain types of transactions involving a change of control of the Company or our management. As a result, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 22 Table of Contents 