D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry The trend toward greater outsourcing of R&D services by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies may slow or reverse, which could adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The success of our business depends primarily on the number and size of contracts that we obtain from pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. Over the past several years, our business has benefited from increased levels of outsourcing of R&D activities by these companies. A slowing or reversal of this trend could adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. A reduction in R&D budgets at pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies may result in a reduction or discontinuation of our services, which may adversely affect our business. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in R&D expenditures by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies. Fluctuations in the R&D budgets of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies could have a significant effect on the demand for our services. R&D budgets fluctuate due to, among other things, sales performance of these companies, including lost sales of products that lose patent exclusivity, face greater competition or otherwise experience reduced demand; inability of these companies to replace these lost sales with sales from new products; changes in their available resources; their decisions to consolidate; their spending priorities; and their budgetary policies and practices. Our ability to continue to grow revenues and profit depends on our retaining existing customers and gaining new customers. We generate most of our revenues from sales to customers headquartered in the United States and Europe, and our future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to expand our customer base globally. Our top ten customers accounted for 38.0% of our total 2014 net revenues compared to 48.0% of our total net revenues in 2012. Although this revenue concentration has declined in recent years, any reversal in that trend subjects us to additional customer concentration risk. Also, our top 10 customers provided us a solid revenue base from which to grow. Any significant cutback in spending for outsourcing by these customers due to mergers and acquisitions, consolidation, R&D budget cuts or other reasons could have a material impact on our business. Our future revenue growth also depends on our ability to expand our customer base globally. 6 Table of Contents Our success largely depends on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled scientists and other personnel. Our success largely depends on the breadth and depth of our team of scientists and other personnel and their capabilities and efforts for our customers on behalf of our company, including their ability to keep pace with continuing changes in pharmaceutical and medical device R&D technologies and methodologies. In particular, our customers value Western-trained scientists with experience at pharmaceutical and/or biotechnology companies. Any inability to attract, motivate and retain qualified scientists and mid-level personnel and to train them in the latest developments in their fields of expertise may have a material adverse effect on our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We face challenges in attracting and retaining high-quality employees. We compete vigorously with pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device and contract research companies and academic and research institutions for qualified and experienced scientists, particularly in our Laboratory Services segment in chemistry, biology and biologics and in our Manufacturing Services segment. To compete effectively, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Despite paying a company-wide merit increase in 2013 and 2014, we may be unable to hire and retain enough skilled and experienced scientists at current wage rates. In addition, we may be unable to redeploy and retrain our professionals to keep pace with changing customer needs, technological changes and performance standards. We face increasingly intense competition. If we do not compete successfully against new and existing competitors, some of whom subject us to pricing pressure, demand for our services and related revenues may decrease. The global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing markets are highly competitive, and we expect this high level of competition to continue. We face competition based on several factors, including quality of services; breadth of service offerings; ability to protect intellectual property or other confidential information; timeliness of delivery; maintenance of standards of good laboratory practices, or GLP, and good manufacturing practices, or GMP; depth of customer relationships; price; and geography. We compete with contract research organizations, or CROs, contract manufacturing organizations and research and academic institutions, typically in specific service areas. For example, we compete with Charles River Laboratory Inc. in the preclinical services area. We compete with ShangPharma Corporation and Pharmaron, Inc. in the drug discovery and chemistry area. We compete with BioReliance Holdings, Inc., or BioReliance, a division of Sigma-Aldrich Corporation (with a pending acquisition by Merck KGaA), in the biologics testing area, and with North American Science Associates, Inc., and Toxikon Corporation, or Toxikon, in the medical device testing area. After the acquisition of Jiecheng and MedKey and the formation of WuXiPRA, we also compete with clinical research organizations such as Pharmaceutical Product Development, LLC, or PPD, Parexel International, and Tigermed Consulting Co., Ltd. in the clinical research services area. In genomics, we compete with companies such as Beijing Genomics Institute, or BGI. We believe that we do not compete with any single company across the entire breadth of our service offerings. We expect to increasingly compete against multinational companies, both domestically and internationally, as we continue to invest in more complex and sophisticated broad-based laboratory, manufacturing and other services. These investments may result in increased competition for qualified personnel. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, research and other resources; a broader scope of services; greater pricing flexibility; more extensive technical capabilities; and greater name recognition. We also expect increased competition as new companies enter our market and as more advanced technologies become available. Our competitors’ existing or new technologies or business approaches may be more effective than our own. Furthermore, increased competition could create pricing pressure on our services, which could reduce our profitability. New technologies or methodologies may be developed, validated and used in the global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing industry, which could reduce demand for some of our services. The global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing industry is constantly evolving, and we must keep pace with new technologies and methodologies to maintain our competitive position. We must continue to invest significant amounts of human and capital resources in R&D to enhance technologies that allow us to introduce new and better services. We may be unsuccessful in developing, adapting to or commercializing these new technologies. New technologies could decrease the need for our existing technologies and their return on investment, and we may not be able to develop new services or technologies effectively or in a timely manner. Our failure to develop, enhance or adapt to new technologies and methodologies could significantly reduce demand for our services and harm our business and prospects. 7 Table of Contents If we fail to effectively manage our anticipated growth and to execute on our growth strategies, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could suffer. Pursuing our growth strategies, including integrating and expanding our facilities and service offerings to meet our customers’ needs, has resulted in, and will continue to result in, substantial demands on management’s time and other resources. Managing this growth and our growth strategies will require, among other things, continued enhancement of our R&D capabilities and the services and products developed with those capabilities for the healthcare market; effective coordination and integration of our research facilities and teams, particularly those located in different facilities, including newly opened sites; successful hiring and training of personnel; effective management of a business separated geographically between the United States and China; effective cost control; sufficient liquidity; effective and efficient financial and management control; increased marketing and sales-support activities; effective quality control; and management of our suppliers to leverage our purchasing power. Any failure to effectively manage our anticipated growth and to execute on our growth strategies could adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We may be unable to expand our capacity and scale up our operations within the timeframe or budgeted costs that we anticipate, possibly resulting in material delay in preparing facilities for service, increased costs and lost business opportunities. We are engaged in a substantial expansion of our capabilities and capacity. For example, we are constructing large small-molecule manufacturing facilities in Changzhou, commercial biologics manufacturing facilities in Wuxi and two cell therapy manufacturing facilities in Philadelphia. In preparing these facilities for operation, we may experience unforeseen delays or cost increases that could result in lost business opportunities and could materially and adversely affect our business, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We have made significant capital investments to meet our customers’ needs, and, as a result, we depend on the success of our customers’ projects and their continued business. We have made and are continuing to make significant capital expenditures based on anticipated demand from existing and potential new businesses. We depend on our customers’ success in advancing products through development, regulatory approval and commercialization. Any delay, non-approval or lack of demand may have a material impact on our business. Consequently, we may be required to reallocate our resources, a decision that could cause delays in our service offerings and result in lower-than-expected revenues. Because many of our fee-for-service contracts are contingent on successful completion of a project and often have a fixed price, we may bear financial risk. A significant portion of our net revenues, including a significant portion of our Laboratory Services revenues and all of our Manufacturing Services revenues, are based on fee-for-service contracts, which are contingent on successful completion of a project and often have a fixed price. In 2014, fee-for-service contracts accounted for approximately 73% of our total net revenues. If we do not deliver a service in a timely manner as specified in the contract, if we incur cost overruns or if we price these contracts below our costs because of competitive pressures, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We may fail to effectively develop and market new services, which may harm our growth opportunities and prospects, possibly resulting in losses. We intend to continue to expand our services. Over the past few years, we have established new services in toxicology, biologics drug development and manufacturing, small molecule commercial manufacturing and other areas. We are in the early stages of launching new services in biologics drug discovery, clinical research and genomics. To develop and market our new services successfully, we must accurately assess and meet customer needs; make significant capital expenditures; optimize our pharmaceutical and medical device discovery, development and manufacturing processes to predict and control costs; hire, train and retain the necessary personnel; obtain required regulatory clearances or approvals; increase customer awareness and acceptance of our services; provide services of a high quality and in a timely manner; price our services competitively; compete effectively with other R&D outsourcing providers and effectively integrate customer feedback into our business planning. If we fail to effectively develop new services and create demand for them, our future business, including results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and prospects, could be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents The loss of services of our senior management and key scientific personnel could severely disrupt our business and growth. Our success significantly depends upon the continued service of our senior management and key scientific personnel. In particular, we are highly dependent on Dr. Ge Li, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who has managed our business, operations and sales and marketing activities and maintained personal and direct relationships with many of our major customers since our inception; Edward Hu, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Investment Officer; Dr. Shuhui Chen, our Chief Scientific Officer; Xiaozhong Liu, our Executive Vice President and other senior management members and key scientific personnel. The loss of any of them, and in particular Dr. Li, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Although each member of our senior management and key scientific personnel has signed a non-compete agreement with us, we may be unable to successfully enforce these provisions. If we lose the services of any senior management members or key scientific personnel, we may be unable to locate and retain suitable qualified replacements and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and its growth. Global economic uncertainty adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations. Global economic uncertainty in recent years affected certain areas of our business, particularly the biotechnology R&D outsourcing markets. Disruptions in orderly financial markets resulted from, among other factors, severely diminished liquidity, reduced credit availability, volatile and declining valuations of securities and other investments, reduced business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment. The economic uncertainty adversely affected, and a future economic weakening in the United States or globally could adversely affect, our business in several ways, including: • Reduced demand for our services. In a period of economic uncertainty, customers may adopt a strategy to defer spending for global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing services. For example, customers who must finance their capital and other expenditures through various forms of debt may find financing unavailable to them, thereby reducing their ability and willingness to purchase our services. • Increased pricing pressure and lower margins. If growth of our current or potential markets slows due to the global economic uncertainty, competition in the global pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing markets may become more intense, which could require us to offer or accept less favorable pricing and payment terms or other terms to remain competitive. For example, we anticipate that pricing pressures in certain businesses will adversely impact our profit margin. In some cases, we may be unwilling or unable to compete for business where competitive pressures make a potential opportunity unprofitable to us. • Renminbi fluctuation. We collected over 81% of our net revenues in U.S. dollars in 2014 and paid most of our expenses for China-based operations in RMB. Although the RMB has recently depreciated relative to the U.S. dollar, a return to appreciation of the RMB would increase the value of RMB expenses in relation to revenues denominated in dollars, euros and yen to the extent that we do not or cannot mitigate this appreciation through the purchase of foreign-exchange forward contracts. • Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable. The failure of any of our customers to make timely payments could require us to write off accounts receivable or increase provisions for accounts receivable, events that could adversely affect our cash flows and profitability. • Additional restructuring. If we cannot generate the level of revenues, profits and cash flows contemplated by our business plan, management may be forced to take further action to refocus our business activities and realign our cost structure with anticipated revenues. Any failure to comply with existing regulations and industry standards could harm our reputation and our business, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Several government agencies and industry regulatory bodies in China, the United States, Europe and Japan impose strict rules, regulations and industry standards on how we and our customers conduct pharmaceutical and medical device R&D. We may need to obtain clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or other regulatory authorities in the event that our customers’ preclinical trials are filed as part of an Investigational New Drug application to seek authorization to begin clinical trials, or their clinical trials are filed as part of a New Drug Application, Biologic License Application or other filing to seek marketing approval. These regulatory authorities may conduct scheduled or unscheduled periodic inspections of our facilities to monitor our regulatory compliance. We may not pass inspections or obtain clearance for our operations from the regulatory authorities, either immediately or over time. A material violation by us of Good Laboratory Practice or Good Manufacturing Practice requirements, as determined by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, could cause our customers to terminate their contracts with us. 9 Table of Contents Any failure to comply with existing regulations and industry standards could result in fines or other punitive actions against us or our customers, the termination of ongoing research and the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. For example, if we fail to treat research animals in accordance with international standards set out by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care, or AAALAC, that organization could revoke accreditation, and the accuracy of our animal research data could be questioned. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. Other relevant laws and regulations include those that are described in Item 4.A, “History and Development of the Company—Chinese Government Regulations,” notably the Labor Contract Law, the PRC Drug Administration Law, the 1998 Interim Measures relating to human genetic resources and regulations described in “History and Development of the Company—Regulations in the United States and other Jurisdictions.” Any adverse action by regulatory authorities could have a material and adverse impact on our reputation and our business, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries, including healthcare reform, could decrease demand for the services we provide, and compliance with new regulations may result in additional costs. Governmental agencies throughout the world, particularly in the United States, strictly regulate the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D process. Changes in regulations, such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements, the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures or an increase in regulatory requirements that we may have difficulty satisfying or that may make our services less competitive could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand for our services. In addition, recent laws and regulations may increase our risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings. For example, regulations and guidance worldwide concerning the production and use of laboratory animals for research purposes continues to be updated. For example, the European Directive 2010/63/EU requires new standards for animal housing and accommodations that require implementation by 2017. Other relevant laws and regulations include those that are described in Item 4.A, “History and Development of the Company—Chinese Government Regulations,” notably regulations relating to the China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, PRC regulations relating to inventor remuneration, the 1998 Interim Measures relating to human genetic resources and regulations described in “History and Development of the Company—Regulations in the United States and other Jurisdictions.” Some of these laws and regulations require additional operating and capital expenses that have impacted and will continue to impact not only us and our competitors, but also clients through both changes in the pricing of goods and services and changes in their own operations. If we fail to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other anti-bribery laws, our reputation may be harmed and we could be subject to significant penalties and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we are a China-based company, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, enacted in the United States. The FCPA generally prohibits us from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We are also subject to the anti-bribery laws of other jurisdictions, particularly China. As our business has expanded, the applicability of the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws to our operations has increased. Our procedures and controls to monitor anti-bribery compliance may fail to protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. If we fail to comply with applicable anti-bribery laws due to our own deliberate or inadvertent acts or those of others, our reputation could be harmed and we could incur criminal or civil penalties, other sanctions and significant expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Our customer agreements contain provisions that run counter to our interests or expose us to potential liability. Our customers’ agreements generally provide that the customers can terminate their agreements with us or reduce the scope of services we provide to them with little or no notice. Most of our customer contracts allow customers to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience upon prior notice ranging from 30 to 90 days. If a customer terminates a contract with us, under the terms of the contract we are only entitled to receive revenues earned up to the date of termination. Therefore, cancellation or modification of one large contract, or proximate cancellation or modification of multiple smaller contracts, could materially and adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. 10 Table of Contents In addition, in some of our customer contracts, we agree not to compete with the customer, either alone or together with third parties. We are required to seek a customer’s prior written consent before making compounds for other customers chemically or pharmacologically similar to those made for the customer. For some customers, our non-compete obligation is broad. Complying with these non-compete obligations may restrict our ability to expand certain service offerings, and failure to comply could significantly harm our business and reputation, as well as expose us to liability for breach of contract. Any failure by us to meet our customers’ standards in audits and inspections could harm our reputation. Our customers audit and inspect our facilities, processes and practices to ensure that our services are meeting their standards in the pharmaceutical and medical device product development process. To date, we have passed all such audits and inspections. However, failure to pass these audits or inspections to our customers’ satisfaction could significantly harm our reputation and could materially and adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. If we fail to protect our customers’ or our own intellectual property (IP) rights, we may be subject to liability for breach of contract and may suffer damage to our reputation. Our success depends on the protection of our customers’ and our own intellectual property, or IP. Our customers provide us with their trade secrets and other IP and generally own the IP created in connection with the services we provide. This is particularly important for us because a large part of our operations is based in China, and China and Chinese companies have not traditionally enforced IP protection to the same extent as the United States and other Western countries. Despite measures we take to protect our customers’ or our own IP, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use it. For example, in 2011 a junior employee stole and sold sample amounts of two patented chemical compounds that we had made for a customer. The employee was apprehended and subsequently convicted on May 22, 2012. Such events may subject us to liability for breach of contract, as well as significantly damage our reputation, and their remediation may significantly divert management’s attention and other resources from other activities. This could materially harm our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. In some of our customer agreements, we have assumed indemnification obligations for IP infringement to the extent that we create the infringing aspect in deliverables by our customers. Our liability is usually not capped under these agreements. As a result, if any aspect of deliverables to our customers that we create infringes a third party’s IP rights, and particularly if such deliverable ultimately becomes a commercially successful product, we could be exposed to substantial liability. We may undertake acquisitions or joint ventures or make equity investments that may have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and may end up being unsuccessful. Acquisitions and Joint Ventures. Our growth strategy may involve acquisitions of new technologies, businesses, products or services or the creation of strategic alliances. For example, in September 2012, we formed WuXi MedImmune Biopharmaceutical Co. Ltd, or WuXi MedImmune, a joint venture with MedImmune, the global biologics arms of AstraZeneca, to develop and commercialize MEDI5117, a novel biologic for autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, in China. In April 2013, we formed a joint venture with PRA, WuXi PRA Clinical Research Services Co., Ltd., to offer a broad platform of Phase I-IV clinical trial services in China, Hong Kong and Macau. In October, 2014, we acquired XenoBiotic Laboratories, Inc., a contract research organization to enhance our bioanalytical, drug metabolism and pharmacokinetic service capabilities. In January 2015, we acquired NextCODE Health, or NextCODE, to enhance our genomic analysis and bioinformatics capabilities. Integration of an acquired company or technology into our own operations is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. The successful integration of an acquisition requires, among other things, that we integrate and retain key management, sales and other personnel; integrate the acquired products and services into our product and service offerings from both an engineering and a sales and marketing perspective; integrate and support preexisting supplier, distribution and customer relationships; coordinate research and development efforts; and consolidate duplicate facilities and functions. The geographic distance between companies, the complexity of the technologies and operations being integrated and the disparate corporate cultures being combined may increase the difficulties of integrating an acquired company or technology. Management’s focus on the integration of operations may distract attention from our day-to-day business and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts. In addition, it is common in the technology industry for aggressive competitors to attract customers and recruit key employees away from companies during the integration phase of an acquisition. 11 Table of Contents Investments. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire or make minority equity investments in businesses that are complementary to our existing businesses or can leverage WuXi’s service platform to create significant value. In 2011, we formed a corporate venture fund structured using PRC and offshore entities to facilitate RMB and U.S. dollar investments. We own 100% of this fund, to which we have made a capital funding commitment of up to $50 million, with an investment focus on technology and life-science companies. As of December 31, 2014, through this venture fund we had invested approximately $36.1 million in investees, including investments in biopharmaceutical companies of $32.5 million and industry funds of $3.6 million. As of December 31, 2014, we have realized $23.6 million in gains from three portfolio companies into which we had made $7.0 million of investments. Our available cash and stock may be used to buy or invest in companies or products, possibly resulting in significant acquisition-related charges to earnings and dilution to our shareholders. Future acquisitions or equity investments will likely present challenges and could require that our management develop expertise in new areas, manage new business relationships and attract new types of customers. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in these acquisitions and equity investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to effectively manage our own business. These acquisitions and equity investments may also expose us to other potential risks, including loss of the invested amounts, inability to earn an adequate return, unforeseen liabilities, diversion of resources from our existing businesses and potential harm to relationships with employees or customers. Our principal laboratory and manufacturing facilities may be vulnerable to natural disasters or other unforeseen catastrophic events. We conduct our primary R&D activities in the China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone in Waigaoqiao (previously called the Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone). We also conduct or plan to conduct R&D and/or manufacturing activities at seven other facilities in China located in the Jinshan area of Shanghai, Tianjin, Suzhou, Wuhan, Changzhou, Nanjing and Wuxi and at five United States facilities in St. Paul, Minnesota; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; San Diego, California; Atlanta, Georgia and Lansdale, Pennsylvania. We depend on these facilities for continued business operations. Natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophic events, including power interruptions, water shortages, storms, fires, earthquakes, terrorist attacks and wars, could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. Our facilities and certain equipment located in these facilities would be difficult to replace in any such event and could require substantial replacement lead time. The occurrence of any such event could materially and adversely affect our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We have limited insurance coverage, and any claims beyond our insurance coverage may result in our incurring substantial costs and a diversion of resources. We maintain property insurance policies covering physical damage to, or loss of, our buildings and their improvements, equipment, office furniture and inventory. We hold employer’s liability insurance generally covering death or work-related injury of employees. We maintain product liability and professional errors and omissions insurance covering product liability claims arising from the use, consumption or operation of our small-molecule compounds and biologics and claims arising from negligence in connection with our services to customers. We hold public liability insurance covering certain incidents involving third parties that occur on or in the premises of the company. We hold directors and officers liability insurance. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our senior management or key personnel, or business interruption insurance. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover any claim for product liability, damage to our fixed assets or employee injuries. To our knowledge, insurance companies in China do not offer business liability insurance. Any liability or damage to, or caused by, our facilities or our personnel beyond our insurance coverage may result in our incurring substantial costs and a diversion of resources. We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials that we use. Our pharmaceutical and medical device R&D processes involve the use of highly toxic and hazardous materials. Any failure by us to control the use or discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. We cannot fully eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials, and we may incur liability as a result of any contamination or injury, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. 12 Table of Contents Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. As our pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D processes generate wastewater and toxic and hazardous substances and other industrial wastes, we must comply with all national and local environmental regulations in the countries in which we operate. Because the requirements imposed by environmental laws and regulations may change and more stringent regulations may be adopted, we may be unable to comply with, or to accurately predict the potentially substantial cost of complying with, these laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. In addition, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials. If we fail to prevent contamination or injury, we could be liable for any resulting damages, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our ability to operate our business efficiently. Some of our current services involve testing pharmaceuticals and medical devices in laboratory animals. Some of the laboratory animals we work with are large animals, including non-human primates. Although the testing of pharmaceuticals in laboratory animals is mandated by law, certain special-interest groups categorically object to the use of animals for these research purposes. Any threats directed against our animal research activities or any negative media attention could impair our ability to operate our business efficiently. In addition, if regulatory authorities were to mandate a significant reduction in safety testing procedures that utilize laboratory animals, as has been advocated by certain groups, our business could be materially and adversely affected. In providing our pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device R&D outsourcing services, we face health and safety liability and product liability risks. In providing our pharmaceutical development services, we face a range of potential liabilities. For example, animals serving as disease models and animals infected with diseases for research purposes may be harmful, or even lethal, to humans despite preventive measures we take for animal quarantine and handling. We also face product liability risks if the pharmaceuticals and medical devices we help to develop and manufacture are subject to product liability claims. We provide services in the development, testing and manufacturing of pharmaceuticals and medical devices that are intended ultimately to be used in humans, either in clinical trials or as marketed products, although we do not commercially market or sell these products to end users. If any of these pharmaceuticals or medical devices harms people, we may be subject to litigation and may be required to pay damages to those people. Damages awarded in a product liability action could be substantial and could have a material and adverse impact on our business, including its financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Although we currently maintain product liability and professional errors and omissions insurance, our insurance coverage may be inadequate or may become unavailable on terms acceptable to us. Our recently announced growth strategies and initiatives subject us to new and enhanced risks and uncertainties, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We are pursuing several new strategic growth strategies and initiatives—construction of new small-molecule and biologics manufacturing facilities, listing and issuance of shares of SynTheAll Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., or STA, investing in genomics/bioinformatics, investing in mobile technologies and investing in China healthcare initiatives—to expand our service offerings and to position us to introduce new services and products. These initiatives will require significant financial investment and management attention, involve significant execution risk, present new or different challenges and risks and subject us to additional regulatory oversight and review. Our strategies and initiatives may fail, and we may not achieve the desired benefits or returns on a timely basis or at all. Our new small-molecule and biologics manufacturing facilities under construction might not earn a satisfactory return on investment. We are in the process of significantly expanding both our small-molecule manufacturing capacity and our biologics manufacturing capacity in China. These businesses are significantly more capital intensive than our laboratory services business. Ongoing and planned investments include construction of facilities for process chemistry, research manufacturing and commercial manufacturing of small molecules in Changzhou and for commercial manufacturing of biologics in Wuxi. Completion of these new facilities could be delayed due to construction, regulatory or licensing issues. Costs of construction could exceed budgeted amounts, divert resources from other productive uses in the company and consume significant amounts of management time. Construction is likely to entail borrowing costs, including interest payments that would reduce cash amounts available for other productive uses. We may be unable to obtain sufficient work orders to effectively utilize these facilities in the near term or at all. Products manufactured at these new facilities may fail to meet regulatory requirements or our customers’ quality standards. We do not have prior previous experience in manufacturing biologic drugs on a commercial scale. 13 Table of Contents Our listing of the shares of STA, our small-molecule manufacturing subsidiary, on stock exchanges in China may not provide its anticipated benefits, and the listing could negatively impact holders of our ADSs. We conduct our small-molecule manufacturing operations exclusively in China through our PRC subsidiary STA. To provide STA with the ability and flexibility to raise cash from Chinese capital markets for facility expansion and mergers and acquisitions, on April 3, 2015 we listed STA on the newly established over-the-counter stock exchange in China (commonly referred to as the New Third Board). In connection with this listing, we did not publicly offer STA shares upon listing, and we may not publicly offer STA shares in the near-term or at all. Our ability to offer STA shares is subject to various PRC exchange and regulatory filings and approvals, and the policies to enable NEEQ-registered companies to transfer to the GEM exchanges are not expected to be introduced until the second half of 2015. As a result, there are significant timing, qualification and other uncertainties in connection with these possible actions. We may incur costs, including share-based compensation charges, in connection with STA’s listing and possible share offerings. STA’s management and employees may receive stock options and other STA equity incentive grants. Even if STA remains our consolidated subsidiary, the ownership interest of our ADS holders in the earnings of STA’s operations could be diluted, depending on the amount of cash raised, the returns on that cash and the manner in which that cash is raised (debt or equity). Volatility in the trading price of our ADSs may increase due to events more specifically impacting STA’s trading price and operations. Cash raised by issuing shares of STA may not be sufficient to fund STA’s capital needs, and STA’s operation as a listed company may result in distraction of WuXi management. Our influence over the election of STA’s board of directors will be impacted if STA’s shareholders appoint directors who are independent of WuXi. Investments in our genomics/bioinformatics business may fail to produce satisfactory returns to our ADS holders. We have acquired NextCODE Health and have begun integrating it with our China-based WuXi Genome Center to create WuXi NextCode Genomics Inc. Our China-based WuXi Genome Center primarily provides genomic services to support research and clinical development conducted by biopharmaceutical companies and academic research institutions. This acquisition, among other anticipated benefits, positions us to offer new genomic and bioinformatic products and services; to expand our customer base to include hospitals, doctors and patients; and to become a leader in the advancement of personalized medicine, with a particular focus on China and the United States. Areas where we are considering the development of new products and services include diagnostic products for rare pediatric diseases, cancer panels and executive health check services. We may not succeed in developing some or all of our planned genomic and bioinformatic products and services without significant additional investments. Expansion of our combined genomics business will require significant outside funding. Products and services that we develop and launch may not compete effectively with those of more established and better financed competitors. The market for genomic analysis and bioinformatics and related drug discovery and development is rapidly evolving, with business models changing in ways that we may not anticipate. The business model we are developing for our combined genomics business may not prove to be viable or our business profitable. As a company that historically has provided pharmaceutical R&D services to other companies, we have no track record in selling and marketing our services and products directly to consumers and their representatives, such as hospitals, doctors and patients. To effectively sell and market these products, we must hire additional qualified personnel in medical genetics, genomics and bioinformatics, among other areas. Additionally, the regulatory environment for activities involving genomics in China is still unclear and evolving. New laws and regulations may be adopted from time to time to address evolving issues and concerns. We may be unable to obtain or maintain the required licenses to allow us to offer specified genomics-related products and services in China. As a result, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future PRC laws and regulations applicable to the genomics industry. For example, in February 2014 the CFDA and the National Health and Family Planning Commission, or NHFPC, issued a notice regarding strengthening administration on use of products and technologies related to gene sequencing in clinical applications. The notice ordered an immediate halt to gene sequencing practices in clinical applications in China except for those already operating on a trial basis after approval. 14 Table of Contents We are currently evaluating the potential legal structure of our combined genomics business, and that structure may entail additional risks. Foreign investments in the development and application of genetic diagnosis and treatment are currently prohibited in China pursuant to the Foreign Investment Industrial Guidance Catalogue, most recently amended in March 10, 2015, and effective as of April 10, 2015, or the Foreign Investment Catalog. To allow us (as a Cayman entity) or one of our PRC subsidiaries (as a foreign invested enterprise) to engage in potentially prohibited activities, including the formation of our WuXi Genome Center, and to develop our related strategy, we expect to conduct the relevant portion of our genomics business indirectly through an affiliated entity owned by PRC shareholders. These arrangements—commonly referred to as a variable interest entity, or VIE—rely on a series of related contractual agreements with the affiliated entity and its shareholders. Among other risks, these indirect ownership arrangements are often not as effective as direct ownership and operation of the business, they may limit our ability to receive dividends from or transfer funds to the affiliated entity, and the interests of the affiliated entity’s shareholders may not be fully aligned with ours. In addition, in January 2015, the Ministry of Commerce of the People’s Republic of China released a draft Foreign Investment Laws of the PRC, or the Draft FIL, that appears to include VIEs within the scope of entities considered to be foreign invested enterprises subject to the restrictions under existing PRC law on foreign investment. It is unclear if or when the Draft FIL will be adopted and, if adopted, how the related rules and interpretations will impact our ability to develop and offer genomics diagnostic and treatment products directly or through an affiliate entity. If we (or any affiliated entity) (1) are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations or (2) fail to obtain or maintain required licenses, permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in handling these violations, which may include revoking our related business and operating licenses; imposing conditions on our operations; requiring us to discontinue or limit operations of the related business; or requiring us to restructure our ownership structure or operations. Any of these limitations or requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business and impact our ability to offer genomics-based diagnostic products and services and expand our genomics business in China. Moreover, we rely on a limited number of suppliers, or, in some cases, sole suppliers, including Illumina., Inc. and Life Technologies Inc., for sequencers, reagents and other equipment used in our genomics/bioinformatics business. Any failure of this equipment or interruption of these supply arrangements could significantly harm our business. Our risk of legal liability increases significantly as we sell and market products directly to consumers, such as hospitals, doctors and patients. We must comply with legal requirements regarding the impact of our products on patients, as well as with legal requirements regarding the protection and appropriate use of personal medical information. Doctors and other individuals involved in the procurement process in China may seek illegal compensation in exchange for their commitment to purchase or prescribe our products and services. In China, hospitals are often state-owned, and doctors are often employed by these state-owned enterprises. These doctors and other individuals may also be considered “government officials” for purposes of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, increasing our exposure to FCPA-related risks. We may incur costs, including share-based compensation charges, in connection with the creation of a combined genomics/bioinformatics business. Our ownership interest in the operations of such a business would be diluted to the extent equity is issued to third parties and WuXi NextCode Genomics Inc.’s management and employees. Investments in our LabNetwork.com and WuXi V-Lab mobile technology platforms may fail to produce satisfactory returns to our ADS holders. In 2015, we launched LabNetwork.com, a global mobile technology platform for connecting buyers to sellers of highly pure and rare research chemicals. We plan initially to offer our own chemical products through this platform and subsequently to offer chemicals from other vendors. The platform’s longer-term success depends, among other things, on its ability to offer a stable and secure trading platform with a sufficient number of qualified buyers and sellers, the quality of the chemicals sold through the platform and sustained transactional volume to recover its costs and provide an adequate return on investment. Certificates of analysis provided by WuXi to buyers could entail risk if the quality of chemical products provided by third-party vendors is substandard. In 2015, we also launched WuXi V-Lab, a mobile app to offer small-molecule compound synthesis services to the global research community. Success of this computer application depends, among other things, on its ease of use, speed and flexibility for our customers. The operation of the LabNetwork.com and WuXi V-Lab must comply with various regulatory requirements regarding internet information services. We may be subject to legal liability if we fail to comply with these regulations, especially if we operate LabNetwork.com and Wuxi V-Lab in China, where the provision of internet information services is highly regulated. 15 Table of Contents Investments in our China Healthcare Initiatives may fail to produce satisfactory returns to our ADS holders and subject us to new and enhanced risks and uncertainties. We are investing in several initiatives to provide products and services directly to doctors, patients, and hospitals in China, and we may undertake other similar or different China healthcare initiatives in the future. We are developing and plan to offer for sale to doctors, patients and hospitals certain clinical tests, such as BRCA1/BRCA2 diagnostic tests for breast cancer and liquid biopsy and lung fusion tests for lung cancer. Offering for sale such diagnostic products entails that we fully comply with legal and regulatory requirements for such products. For example, these clinical tests may not accurately or completely diagnose the disease condition of every patient tested. We are developing MEDI5117, an anti-IL 6 antibody for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, for the China market in a joint venture with MedImmune, the biologics division of AstraZeneca. Development of this product, like that of all pharmaceuticals, may not be successful due to the inability of the joint venture to demonstrate efficacy or safety sufficient to obtain regulatory approval. AstraZeneca will be responsible for sales and marketing of this product. Even if approved, the product may not generate sufficient sales to recover development costs and to earn a profit. We may enter into other drug development partnerships with our customers for the China market. We plan to create a business in China to offer cell therapies to patients. Autologous cell therapies involve harvesting cells, such as T cells, from a patient, engineering them to fight diseases such as certain cancers and reintroducing them into the same patient. Allogeneic cell therapies involve use cells of patients other than those of the patient being treated. Marketing these products would subject us to additional regulatory and licensing requirements and expose us to potential product liability laws in China. In 2014, we launched Boshi360.com, a Chinese-language web portal that has the potential to provide approximately 16.8 million Chinese patients with rare diseases access to information, professional consultation and other services. Providing this web portal requires that we comply with the relevant legal and regulatory requirements and subjects us to risk regarding the information on the portal. For example, statements on the portal made by ourselves or others may not be accurate or complete. Services to diagnose or treat rare diseases discussed on the portal may not benefit, or may harm, patients. Our legal obligations for providing the venue for such discussions remain unclear. The provision of information on the internet is highly regulated in China, and the regulations frequently change. We obtained an Internet Drug Information Certificate in March 2015 for drug information published on Boshi360 and are in the process of applying for the Internet Medical and Health Information Certificate for providing medical and health information on Boshi360. Although we do not believe additional certificates or approvals for the operation of Boshi360 are necessary at this time, regulators may determine that other certificates or approvals are required, and we may be subject to legal liability for any failure to obtain such additional certificates or approvals. We may be unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, and as a result we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley. Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley requires that we include a report from management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 20-F. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to, and report on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. While our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2014, our management may later conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree. If our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our internal control over financial reporting is designed, documented, operated or reviewed, or if they interpret the requirements, rules or regulations differently from the way we do, then they may issue an adverse or qualified opinion on our consolidated financial statements. Any of these outcomes could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our audited consolidated financial statements, which could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Our reporting obligations as a public company could place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. 16 Table of Contents Restrictions on our operations contained in agreements relating to bank loans may limit how we conduct our business. We have entered into several lending facilities in connection with the funding of our global business, including a $165 million syndicated loan facility entered into in February 2015. The related loan agreements include terms that may limit the manner in which we conduct our business, including terms relating to our maintenance of debt-related financial ratios within certain thresholds and limits on our indebtedness and the indebtedness of our PRC subsidiaries. These financial ratio covenants could limit our operational flexibility and could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities to build our business or compete effectively. A failure to maintain these ratios to comply with other provisions in these loan agreements could result in a default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in such debt becoming immediately due and payable. This, in turn, could cause our other debt to become due and payable as a result of cross-acceleration provisions contained in the agreements governing such other debt. We may need additional capital that we may be unable to obtain in a timely manner on acceptable terms. In order to expand our capacity, develop new services and remain competitive, we may require additional capital. Financing may be unavailable in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. Our ability to obtain additional capital is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including our future financial condition; results of operations and cash flows; general market conditions for capital-raising activities by life-science and related companies; and economic, political and other conditions in China, the United States and other countries. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could result in dilution to the shares held by our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants restricting our operations or our ability to pay dividends. We depend on information technology and other infrastructure that face security, including cyber security, risks. We rely on a variety of information technology and automated operating systems to manage or support our operations, including protecting our customers’ intellectual property, or IP. We have begun to switch from the use of physical notebooks to electronic notebooks for many of our customers. The proper functioning of these systems is critical to the efficient operation and management of our business. In addition, these systems may require modifications or upgrades as a result of technological changes or growth in our business. These changes may be costly and disruptive to our operations and could impose substantial demands on management time. Our systems and those of third-party providers may be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control, such as catastrophic events, power outages, natural disasters, computer system or network failures, viruses or malware, physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized access, cyberattacks and thefts. Although we take steps to secure our systems and electronic information, these security measures may not be adequate. Any significant disruption to our systems could adversely affect our business and operating results. Risks Relating to China The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in the PRC or imposition of any additional PRC taxes on us could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and its implementing rules became effective January 1, 2008. The EIT Law and its implementing rules permit certain “high and new technology enterprises,” or HNTEs, to enjoy a reduced 15% EIT rate subject to certain general factors described in the EIT Law and the related regulations. In the fourth quarter of 2008, our PRC subsidiaries WXAT, WASH, WATJ and STA were recognized by the local provincial level Municipal Science and Technology Commission, Finance Bureau and State and Local Tax Bureaus as HNTEs under the EIT Law. Therefore WXAT, WASH, WATJ and STA are eligible to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15% as long as they maintain their qualification as an HNTE. According to the three-year review schedule regulated by the relevant government authority, WASH, WATJ and STA re-applied for their HNTE qualification in 2014. Thus, those three entities are eligible to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15% for 2014 through 2016. In 2010, WASZ, located in Suzhou, was recognized as an HNTE and successfully renewed its certificate as an HNTE in 2013, making it eligible to enjoy a 15% preferential tax rate as an HNTE from 2010 through 2015. In the third quarter of 2012, STA R&D, Abgent SZ and WAWH were recognized as HNTEs under the EIT Law and are eligible to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15% for calendar years 2012 through 2014. STA R&D obtained approval from the relevant tax authority to enjoy the one-year exemption and three-year 50% deduction (“1+3 tax holiday”) in April 2013, thus STA R&D became eligible for the income tax rates of 0%, 12.5%, 12.5%, and 12.5% for 2012 through 2015. WABIO also was recognized by the local provincial Municipal Science and Technology Commission, Finance Bureau and State and Local Tax Bureaus as HNTEs under the EIT Law. Therefore, WABIO is eligible to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15% for 2013 through 2015. The continued qualification of HNTE status is subject to three-year renewal and annual evaluation by the relevant PRC government authorities. If any or all of these entities fail to maintain the HNTE qualification, their applicable EIT rate may increase to up to 25%, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Preferential tax treatment granted to our subsidiaries by local governmental authorities is subject to review and may be adjusted or revoked at any time. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatment currently available to us and our consolidated subsidiaries would cause our effective tax rate to increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We may be unable to maintain our current effective tax rate. Under China’s EIT Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. This classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. Under China’s EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for EIT purposes. A tax circular issued by the PRC State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009, or Circular 82, regarding the standards used to classify resident enterprises clarified that dividends and other disbursements paid by such resident enterprises will be considered to be PRC source income, subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when received or recognized by non-PRC resident enterprise shareholders. This circular also subjects such resident enterprises to various reporting requirements with the PRC tax authorities. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define “de facto management bodies” as “management bodies that exercise substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. In addition, Circular 82 specifies that certain China-invested enterprises controlled by Chinese enterprises or Chinese group enterprises will be classified as resident enterprises if the following are located or resident in China: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision-making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of senior management or directors having voting rights. On July 27, 2011, the PRC State Administration of Taxation issued Administrative Measures of Enterprise Income Tax of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Resident Enterprises (Trial), or Bulletin 45, which became effective on September 1, 2011, to provide further guidance on the implementation of Circular 82. Bulletin 45 clarifies certain issues related to determining PRC resident enterprise status, including which competent tax authorities are responsible for determining offshore incorporated PRC resident enterprise status, as well as post-determination administration. Bulletin 45 specifies that when provided with a copy of a Chinese tax resident determination certificate issued by the competent tax authorities from an offshore incorporated PRC resident enterprise, the payer should not withhold 10% income tax when paying Chinese-sourced dividends, interest and royalties to the PRC resident enterprise. In 2014, the State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, released the Announcement of the SAT on Issues Concerning the Recognition of Chinese-Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Overseas as Resident Enterprises on the Basis of Their Actual Management Bodies, or Bulletin 9 and supplemented some provisions on the administrative procedures for the recognition of resident enterprise, while the standards used to classify resident enterprises in Circular 82 remain unchanged. Currently, most of the members of our management team as well as the management team of some of our offshore holding companies are located in China. However, Circular 82 and Bulletin 45 only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreign corporations like us. In the absence of detailed implementing regulations or other guidance determining that offshore companies controlled by PRC individuals or foreign corporations like us are PRC resident enterprises, we do not currently consider our Company or any of our overseas subsidiaries to be a PRC resident enterprise. However, the State Administration of Taxation may take the view that the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 and Bulletin 45 reflect the general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of all offshore enterprises. Additional implementing regulations or guidance may be issued determining that our Cayman Islands holding company is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our Cayman Islands holding company is a resident enterprise for PRC EIT purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to EIT at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income, as well as to PRC EIT reporting obligations. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules and Bulletin 45 dividends paid by a PRC tax resident enterprise to an offshore incorporated PRC tax resident enterprise controlled by a PRC enterprise or enterprise group would qualify as tax-exempted income, we cannot assure that dividends paid by our PRC subsidiaries to us will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign-exchange control authorities and tax authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC EIT purposes but not controlled by a PRC enterprise or enterprise group like us. Finally, the EIT Law and its implementing rules issued by PRC tax authorities suggest that dividends paid by us to our non-PRC shareholders and, while less clear, capital gains recognized by them with respect to the sale of our stock may be subject to a withholding tax of 10% for non-PRC enterprise shareholders and potentially 20% for non-PRC individual shareholders. Similarly, these unfavorable consequences could apply to other offshore companies if they are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. 18 Table of Contents The discontinuation of any of the financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC could adversely affect our financial position, results of operation, cash flows and prospects. Since the inception of our business, we have benefited from exemptions and subsidies with respect to income tax and sales tax. Our eligibility to receive these financial incentives requires that we continue to qualify for them. The incentives are subject to the discretion of the central government or relevant local government authorities, which could determine at any time to immediately eliminate or reduce these financial incentives, generally with prospective effect. Since our receipt of the financial incentives is subject to periodic time lags and inconsistent government practice, for as long as we continue to receive these financial incentives our net income in a particular period may be higher or lower relative to other periods based on the potential changes in these financial incentives in addition to any business or operational factors that we may otherwise experience. For example, we expect downward pressure on margins on goods manufactured for export due to changes in China’s VAT system, reducing the potential VAT export refund rate on certain categories of goods from 15% to 0%. We face uncertainty from PRC VAT reform, which could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us. On October 26, 2011, the State Council of China approved a new tax rule to launch the VAT reform pilot program in Shanghai on January 1, 2012. On November 16, 2011, China’s Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, jointly issued the Circular on the Pilot Program for the Collection of Value Added Tax Instead of Business Tax, or Circular 110, and the Circular on the Pilot Program for the Collection of Value Added Tax Instead of Business Tax in Transportation and Certain Modern Service Sectors in Shanghai, or Circular 111, to provide specific implementation rules for the pilot program, which became effective January 1, 2012. As part of a tax replacement policy, Circular 110 and Circular 111 allow companies in the traffic and transport sector and certain modern service sectors in Shanghai to pay a VAT instead of the business tax. Since January 1, 2012, a 17% rate has applied to the movable property leasing sector, an 11% rate to the traffic and transport sector and a 6% rate to sectors related to research and development, technological services, culture, logistics and consultation. According to the existing business tax rules, our revenue from R&D services is subject to a 5% business tax on gross revenue, while the recovery of the input VAT incurred on the purchase of raw materials and VAT-able service is disallowable. Under the new VAT reform pilot program, our R&D service revenue will be subject to a 6% VAT on revenue; however, the input VAT incurred on the purchase of raw materials and VAT-able services is recoverable and can be used as a credit when calculating VAT. Under both the business tax rules and the new VAT reform pilot rules, the revenue from R&D services can be eligible for the exemption policy if the R&D services meet certain standards and receive a certification from a Commission of Science or Commission of Commerce at the provincial level. Furthermore, on December 29, 2011, China’s Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation jointly issued the Notice on Application of a Zero Rate and Exempt Treatment for Certain Taxable Services, or Circular 131, to clarify the scope of taxable services eligible for the zero rate or exemption under the VAT reform pilot program in Shanghai. Circular 131 applies as of January 1, 2012, the same date the pilot program commenced. According to Circular 131, R&D services provided to overseas entities are eligible for the zero-rate policy, which means that no VAT is charged on the invoice to overseas customers and the input VAT associated with the service provided to the customer is fully recoverable. On August 1, 2012, the pilot program was extended to eight other provinces and cities, including Jiangsu Province, Hubei Province and Tianjin city, and on August 1, 2013, the pilot program was further extended nationwide. WASH, the Shanghai branch of WXAT and STA R&D, which are located in Shanghai; the head offices of WXAT and WASZ, which are located in Jiangsu Province; and WAWH and WATJ, which are located in Hubei Province and Tianjin city, respectively, derive their main revenues from R&D services and were subject to this new VAT reform pilot program beginning on January 1, 2012; October 1, 2012; and December 1, 2012, respectively. In addition, the Ministry of Finance and SAT further expanded the VAT pilot program to include the railway transportation and postal services into the scope of the VAT pilot program from January 1, 2014, by the promulgation of the Circular on Including the Railway Transportation and Postal Industries into the VAT Pilot Program, or Circular 106, which superseded Circular 101, Circular 111 and Circular 131. However, the tax policy and favorable tax treatments for the Company remain unchanged under Circular 106. Fluctuations in exchange rates have resulted in, and continue to result in, foreign-exchange losses and to adversely impact our profitability. In 2014, more than 81% of our net revenues were generated from sales denominated in U.S. dollars, and a significant portion of our operating costs and expenses were denominated in Renminbi. As a result, when the Renminbi appreciates against the U.S. dollar, our margins are pressured. Although currently the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 2.0% per day, and the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign-exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, in the future Chinese authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi-dollar exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign-exchange market. More recently, the PRC government has indicated a strong willingness to introduce two-way volatility in the Renminbi-dollar exchange rate. 19 Table of Contents Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange-rate fluctuations. We periodically purchase derivative financial instruments such as foreign-exchange forward contracts to manage our exposure to Renminbi-dollar exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. Changes in China’s economic, political and social conditions could adversely affect our business, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We conduct a significant portion of our business operations in China. Accordingly, our business, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects, is affected to a significant degree by economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage, but also to control, economic growth and to guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our business, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to investors and the Company. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing general economic matters. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Most of our PRC operating subsidiaries are FIEs and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China as well as laws and regulations applicable to FIEs. These laws and regulations change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. In addition, some regulatory requirements issued by certain PRC government authorities may not be consistently applied by other government authorities, thus making strict compliance with all regulatory requirements impractical or, in some circumstances, impossible. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protections that we benefit from either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in legal systems in more developed nations. These uncertainties may also impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into. As a result, these uncertainties, together with any development or interpretation of the PRC law that is adverse to us, could materially and adversely affect our business, including our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties. A failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to complete any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from distributing profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, has promulgated several regulations that require PRC residents to register with and/or obtain approvals from branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. On October 21, 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, which became effective as of November 1, 2005. Notice 75 requires (a) PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any offshore company, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets or equity of PRC companies and raising funds from overseas, (b) any PRC resident who is a shareholder of an offshore special purpose company to amend such shareholder’s SAFE registration with the relevant SAFE branch with respect to such company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China, and (c) registration by March 31, 2006, of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in such companies. 20 Table of Contents In July 2014, SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Overseas Investment and Financing and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 37, which became effective as of July 4, 2014, and suspended the previous Notice 75. Notice 37 generally maintains the registration requirement of PRC residents with the local SAFE branch for establishing or controlling any offshore company as required under Notice 75, and, in comparison to Notice 75, expands the application of the registration requirement at certain aspects and provides clearer guidance and procedures for the registration requirements. As Notice 37 is newly issued, it is unclear how these regulations will be interpreted and implemented. In addition, different local SAFE branches may have different views and procedures as to the interpretation and implementation of the SAFE regulations. We previously notified and urged our shareholders who are PRC residents to make the necessary registrations and filings as required under these regulations, and these shareholders have made efforts to register their investments in our company with the local SAFE branch in Wuxi. However, the local SAFE branch in Wuxi declared that registrations under Notice 75 were not required from these shareholders. It remains unclear whether the local SAFE branch in Wuxi correctly interprets Notice 75 as to its application to certain of our shareholders and how Notice 37 and any future PRC legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions will be interpreted and implemented by the relevant PRC government authorities. Therefore, we cannot assure you that all relevant shareholders have made or will make and obtain all applicable registrations or filings required by these regulations or other related legislation. If any of our PRC shareholders fails to make any required SAFE registrations and amendments thereto, our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries may be limited, and our PRC subsidiaries may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to us. Moreover, the failure to comply with SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign-exchange restrictions and may subject us to significant fines. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiaries to fund cash and financing requirements. Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries for our cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. If any of our subsidiaries in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by the subsidiary only out of its retained earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, each of our main operating subsidiaries in China is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund specific reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. A wholly foreign-owned enterprise is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits of the preceding year as its reserve funds. It may stop contributing if the aggregate amount of the reserve funds has already accounted for more than 50% of its registered capital. Moreover, upon a board resolution, it may set aside certain amounts from its after-tax profits of the preceding year as bonus and welfare funds for staff and workers. A Sino-foreign equity joint-venture enterprise is required to set aside reserve funds, bonus and welfare funds for staff and workers and development funds, the percentage of which must be determined by the board of directors. As a result of these PRC laws and regulations, each of our main operating subsidiaries in China is restricted in its ability to transfer a portion of its net assets to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances. As of December 31, 2014, the restricted portion of their net assets totaled $234.2 million, which was composed of the registered capital and the statutory reserve of the PRC subsidiaries. Limitations on the ability of our operating subsidiaries in China to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Government control of currency conversion and regulations of loans to, and direct investment in, PRC entities by offshore holding companies may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, which could restrict our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and also affect our ability to fund and expand our business. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of foreign currency out of China. Under China’s existing foreign-exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE or its local counterparts by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the PRC government may take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. 21 Table of Contents Foreign-exchange transactions under capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign-exchange controls and require the registration with, and approval of, PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if one subsidiary receives foreign-currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE or its local counterparts. If we finance such subsidiary by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. In August 2008, SAFE promulgated SAFE Circular No. 142 regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign-currency-registered capital into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. SAFE Circular No. 142 provides that the RMB capital converted from foreign-currency-registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable government authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the RMB capital converted from foreign-currency-registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise. The use of such RMB capital may not be altered without SAFE’s approval, and such RMB capital may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Furthermore, in November 2010, SAFE promulgated SAFE Circular No. 59, which requires that government authorities closely examine that the settlement of net proceeds from offshore offerings are authentic and that the net proceeds be settled in the manner described in the offering documents. In November 2011, SAFE also promulgated SAFE Circular No. 45, which, among other things, restricts a foreign-invested enterprise from using RMB converted from its registered capital to provide entrusted loans or to repay loans between non-financial enterprises. Violations of these circulars could result in severe monetary or other penalties. In light of the various requirements imposed by PRC regulations on loans to, and direct investment in, PRC entities by offshore holding companies, including the SAFE Circulars referred to above, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries and conversion of such loans or capital contributions into RMB. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to fund and expand our business. Recent litigation and negative publicity surrounding China-based companies listed in the United States may result in increased regulatory scrutiny of us and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs and could have a material adverse effect upon our business, including its results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and prospects. We believe that litigation and negative publicity surrounding companies with operations in China that are listed in the United States have negatively impacted stock prices for such companies. Various equity-based research organizations have published reports on China-based companies after examining, among other things, their corporate governance practices, related party transactions, sales practices and financial statements that have led to special investigations and stock suspensions on national exchanges. Any similar scrutiny of us, regardless of its lack of merit, could result in a diversion of management resources and energy, potential costs to defend ourselves against rumors, decreases and volatility in our ADS trading price, and increased directors and officers insurance premiums and could have a material adverse effect upon our business, including its results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and prospects. Our contractual arrangements with our consolidated entities in China may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities, and a finding that our PRC subsidiary or our affiliated entity owes additional taxes could substantially reduce our net income and the value of our shareholders’ investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We would be subject to adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities were to determine that the contracts between our subsidiaries were not executed on an arm’s length basis, and as a result the PRC tax authorities could require that our PRC subsidiaries adjust their taxable income upward for PRC tax purposes. Such a pricing adjustment could adversely affect us by increasing our tax expenses. The audit reports included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and, as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. As an auditor of companies that are publicly traded in the United States and a firm registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, our independent registered public accounting firm is required by the laws in the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and the professional standards of the PCAOB. However, because our auditor is located in the PRC, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditor is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. 22 Table of Contents Inspections of other auditors conducted by the PCAOB outside of China have at times identified deficiencies in those auditors’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and quality control procedures. In addition, the inability of the PCAOB to conduct auditor inspections in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors located outside of China that are subject to regular PCAOB inspections. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections and may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. If additional remedial measures are imposed on the “Big Four” PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in administrative proceedings brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) alleging the firms’ failure to meet specific criteria set by the SEC, with respect to requests for the production of documents, we could be unable to file future financial statements on a timely basis in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Since 2011, the Chinese affiliates of the “Big Four” accounting firms (including our independent registered public accounting firm) were affected by a conflict between U.S. and Chinese law. Specifically, for certain U.S.-listed companies operating and audited in mainland China, the SEC and the PCAOB sought to obtain from the Chinese firms access to their audit work papers and related documents. The firms were, however, advised and directed that under China law they could not respond directly to the U.S. regulators on those requests, and that requests by foreign regulators for access to such papers in China had to be channeled through the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC. In late 2012, this impasse led the SEC to commence administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and under Sarbanes-Oxley against the Chinese accounting firms (including our independent registered public accounting firm). A first instance trial of the proceedings in July 2013 in the SEC’s internal administrative court resulted in an adverse judgment against the firms. The administrative law judge proposed penalties on the firms including a temporary suspension of their right to practice before the SEC, although that proposed penalty did not take effect pending review by the Commissioners of the SEC. On February 6, 2015, before a review by the Commissioners had taken place, the firms reached a settlement with the SEC. Under the settlement, the SEC accepts that future requests by the SEC for the production of documents will normally be made to the CSRC. The firms will receive matching Section 106 requests, and are required to abide by a detailed set of procedures with respect to such requests, which will in substance require them to facilitate production via the CSRC. If they fail to meet specified criteria, the SEC retains authority to impose a variety of additional remedial measures on the firms, depending on the nature of the failure. Remedies for any future noncompliance could include, as appropriate, an automatic six-month bar on a single firm’s performance of certain audit work, commencement of a new proceeding against a firm or in extreme cases the resumption of the proceeding against all four firms. In the event that the SEC restarts the administrative proceedings, depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, leading to possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about any such future proceedings against these audit firms could cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, United States-listed companies, and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. If our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, even temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements on a timely basis, our financial statements could be determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delisting of our ADSs from the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, deregistration from the SEC or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. 23 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Investing in Our ADSs Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and could fall below investors’ expectations, which could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Our quarterly revenues and other operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate depending upon numerous factors, including the signing, completion or cancellation of contracts, and in particular large contracts; the progress of ongoing contracts; trends in costs and expenses, such as from labor inflation, Renminbi fluctuations, investment and our ability to increase prices to reflect these changes in costs; impairment charges and charges related to discontinued operations; acquisitions, dispositions or discontinuances of businesses and any associated charges; our customers’ requirements for delivery of services, including timing of delivery, particularly our manufacturing services; changes in the mix of our revenues from our laboratory service and manufacturing service businesses, including the portion of services performed on a fee-for-service or full-time-equivalent basis; changes in the R&D outsourcing industry’s operating environment; and changes in government policies or regulations or their enforcement. Many of these factors are beyond our control, making our quarterly results difficult to predict, which could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline below investor expectations. The trading prices of our ADSs have been, and may continue to be, volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. Between January 1, 2014, and April 3, 2015, the trading price of our ADSs on the NYSE ranged from $30.47 to $41.70 per ADS, and the last reported sale price on April 2, 2015 was $38.83 per ADS. The trading prices of our ADSs could fluctuate widely in response to factors beyond our control. Broad market and industry factors may significantly affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. In particular, factors such as variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow and announcements of new investments or acquisitions could cause the trading price of our ADSs to change substantially. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and trading price of our ADSs. In the past, following periods of volatility in the trading price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. If we were involved in a class action suit, it could divert the attention of senior management and, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited in several significant ways by the terms of the deposit agreement. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise their voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will attempt to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is ten clear days. When a general meeting is convened, holders of our ADSs may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit the holder to withdraw the ordinary shares to allow the holder to cast his or her vote with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to the holder or carry out the holder’s voting instructions in a timely manner. We make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to holders of our ADSs in a timely manner, but holders may not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that the holder can instruct the depositary to vote his or her shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise the right to vote and may lack recourse if the holder’s ordinary shares are not voted as requested. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, could modify our structure or could cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by ADSs, at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control in a tender offer or similar transaction. 24 Table of Contents For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preference shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares. Preference shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors authorizes the issuance of preference shares, the market price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. Because our directors are divided into three classes with staggered terms of three years each, shareholders can only elect or remove a limited number of our directors in any given year. The length of these terms could present an obstacle to certain actions, such as a merger or other change of control, which could be in the interest of our shareholders. Holders of ADSs may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to the holders. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay holders of our ADSs cash dividends or other distributions that it or the custodian of our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. Holders of our ADSs will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares the holder’s ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if the securities being distributed require registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, but are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration required for such distribution cannot be obtained after reasonable efforts made by the depositary. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that holders of our ADSs may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to the holders. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of the holder’s ADSs. We intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends directly on our ordinary shares, or indirectly on our ADSs, in the foreseeable future. Holders of our ADSs may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings. From time to time, we may distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell these undistributed rights to third parties and may allow the rights to lapse. We may be unable to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to try to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. Holders of our ADSs may be subject to limitations on transfer of their ADSs. To the extent holders of our ADSs hold certificated ADRs rather than hold ADSs through their bank, broker or other nominee through the Depository Trust Company, the ADSs represented by ADRs will be transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time that it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies and will close its books on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any governmental body, or under any provision of, or circumstance permitted by, the deposit agreement. 25 Table of Contents We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our ADSs or ordinary shares and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either (a) the average quarterly value of our gross assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our total gross assets, or (b) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. According to these technical rules, we would likely become a PFIC for a given taxable year if our market capitalization were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents in that year. Based in part on our estimate of the composition of our income and our estimates of the value of our assets, we do not expect to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2014. However, PFIC status is tested each year and will depend on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets from time to time, including goodwill and equity investments in less-than-25%-owned entities. Because we expect to hold a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets, and because the value of our assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to the market price of our ADSs, which fluctuates, we may be a PFIC in the future. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor holds our ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to the U.S. investor. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to U.S. holders that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see Item 10.E, “Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” We are a Cayman Islands company. Because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, shareholders may have fewer shareholder rights than they would have under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association (as may be amended from time to time), the Cayman Islands Companies Law, or the Companies Law, and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. This common law is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law than the United States. In addition, some states in the United States, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. Moreover, as a non-U.S. company with foreign private-issuer status, we have been exempted from, and you may not be provided with the benefits of, some of the NYSE corporate-governance requirements applicable to U.S. companies, including that a majority of our board of directors must be independent directors, the compensation of our chief executive officer must be determined or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors and our director nominees must be selected or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or a nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors. In addition, as a Cayman-Islands-exempted company, our shareholders have no general rights under Cayman Islands law to inspect corporate records and accounts or to obtain copies of lists of shareholders of these companies. Our directors have discretion under our Articles of Association to determine whether or not, and under what conditions, our corporate records may be inspected by our shareholders, but are not obliged to make them available to our shareholders. This may make it more difficult for you to obtain the information needed to establish any facts necessary for a shareholder motion or to solicit proxies from other shareholders in connection with a proxy contest. As a Cayman Islands company, we may not have standing to initiate a derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, you may be limited in your ability to protect your interests if you are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable you to sue in a United States federal court. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. 26 Table of Contents Certain judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may be unenforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company, and most of our assets and a large part of our operations are located outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our current operations are conducted, and a substantial portion of our operating assets are located, in the PRC. In addition, many of our directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil-liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not resident in the United States and most of whose assets are located outside of the United States. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC may not recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil-liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, such Cayman Islands or PRC courts may not be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any U.S. state. 