1A Risk Factors 18 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 35 Item 2 Properties 35 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 36 Item 4 (Removed and Reserved). 36 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 37 Item 6 Selected Financial Data 39 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 41 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 65 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 66 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 138 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 138 Item 9B Other Information 139 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 140 Item 11 Executive Compensation 140 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 140 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 141 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 141 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 142 Unless the context requires otherwise, reference to “Company,” “Visa,” “we,” “us” or “our” refers to Visa Inc. and its subsidiaries. The registered trademarks of Visa Inc. and its subsidiaries include, but are not limited to: “3-D Secure;” “Bands Design—Blue, White & Gold;” “CyberSource;” “Dove Design;” “Fundamo;” “Interlink;” “Plus;” “PlaySpan;” “V Pay Design;” “V Distribution Design;” “Verified by Visa;” “Visa;” “Visa Buxx;” “Visa Classic;” “Visa Electron;” “Visa Infinite;” “Visa Intellilink;” “Visa Online;” “Visa Platinum;” “Visa ReadyLink;” “Visa PassFirst;” “Visa payWave;” “Visa Select;” “Visa Signature;” “Visa SimplyOne;” “Visa TravelMoney;” “Visa Vale;” “VisaNet;” and “Winged V Design.” Other trademarks used in this report are the property of their respective owners. 2 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the terms “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “potential,” “project,” “should,” “will,” and similar references to the future. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make about our earnings per share, cash flow, revenue, incentive payments, expenses, operating margin, tax rate and capital expenditures and the growth of those items. By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees of future performance and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements because of a variety of factors, including the following: • the impact of new laws, regulations and marketplace barriers, including: • rules capping debit interchange reimbursement fees promulgated under the U.S. Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Reform Act; • rules under the Reform Act expanding issuers’ and merchants’ choice among debit payment networks; • increased regulation outside the United States and in other product categories; and • rules about consumer privacy and data use and security • developments in current or future litigation or government enforcement, including interchange, antitrust and tax disputes; • macroeconomic factors, such as: • global economic, political and health conditions; • cross-border activity and currency exchange rates; and • material changes in our clients’ performance compared to our estimates; • industry developments, such as competitive pressure, rapid technological developments and disintermediation from the payments value stream; • system developments, such as: • disruption of our transaction processing systems or the inability to process transactions efficiently; • account data breaches or increased fraudulent or other illegal activities involving our cards; and • issues arising at Visa Europe, including failure to maintain interoperability between our systems; • costs arising if Visa Europe were to exercise its right to require us to acquire all of its outstanding stock; • loss of organizational effectiveness or key employees; • failure to integrate recent acquisitions successfully or to effectively launch new products and businesses • changes in accounting principles or treatments; and the other factors discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” herein. You should not place undue reliance on such statements. Unless required to do so by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement because of new information or future developments or otherwise. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. Business Overview Visa Inc., which we refer to as Visa or the Company, is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, banks and governments in more than 200 countries and territories, enabling them to use digital currency instead of cash and checks. Our business primarily consists of the following: • we own, manage and promote a portfolio of well-known, widely-accepted payment brands, including Visa, Visa Electron, PLUS and Interlink, which we license to our clients for use in their payment programs; • we offer a wide range of branded payments product platforms, which our clients, primarily financial institutions, use to develop and offer credit, debit, prepaid and cash access programs for their customers (individuals, businesses and government entities); • we provide transaction processing and value-added services to our clients through VisaNet, Visa Debit Processing Services, Visa Processing Services, CyberSource, PlaySpan and Fundamo; and • we promote and enforce a common set of operating regulations adhered to by our clients to ensure the efficient and secure functioning of our payments network and the maintenance and promotion of our brands. To ensure our long-term success and the success of our clients: • we invest in new services and processing platforms to facilitate more convenient and innovative payment methods, such as mobile payments, money transfer and eCommerce; and • we continually improve the speed, efficiency, security and performance of our network and our payments services to enhance the reliability of our global processing infrastructure and protect the security of cardholder information. We operate an open-loop payments network, a multi-party system in which Visa connects financial institutions—issuing financial institutions, or issuers, that issue cards to cardholders, and acquiring financial institutions, or acquirers, that have the banking relationship with merchants—and manage the exchange of information and value between them. As such, Visa does not issue cards, extend credit, or collect, assess or set cardholder fees or interest charges. In most instances, cardholder and merchant relationships belong to, and are managed by, our network of financial institution clients. We derive revenues primarily from fees paid by our clients based on payments volume, transactions that we process and other related services that we provide. Business developments in fiscal 2011 included the following: • Regulation. New rules were set out with respect to debit products under the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Reform Act. The Reform Act regulates, among other things, interchange fees, the debit networks issuers make available, merchants’ choices among these networks and transaction routing. These regulations will cause us to renegotiate some portions of client contracts. See—Government Regulation below. • U.S. Debit Strategy. We have designed or implemented several modifications to our U.S. debit strategy to ensure compliance with the Reform Act. • Interchange. We established new debit interchange rate structures, effective October 2011, for the Visa Consumer Check card, Interlink and Small Business Debit. Two 4 Table of Contents distinct interchange schedules were established: one for exempt issuers and products, and a second for regulated issuers and products. In addition, in order to ensure that transactions within a U.S. territory, transactions between U.S. territories, and transactions between the U.S. and U.S. territories receive the applicable, regulated interchange rate, we established two new interregional schedules for regulated debit card and Interlink transactions. • Certification Program. In order to correctly identify regulated issuers, their exempt products and their compliance with the Federal Reserve’s interim fraud prevention standards, a certification process was implemented for regulated issuers. The program enables issuers to accurately register their exempt and non-exempt portfolios and to certify their compliance with these rules and criteria. • Rule Changes. We implemented changes to our Operating Regulations to the extent necessary to support the ability of issuers to enable unaffiliated payment card networks on Visa Debit cards issued in the U.S. or U.S. territories, as well as to enable Visa-owned debit networks on non-Visa Debit cards. • Fees. We announced acquirer pricing restructuring designed to reduce overall merchant costs in connection with accepting Visa transactions. These changes are intended to incent merchants to route more transactions over the Visa network. • Department of Justice. Visa Inc. reached a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice, or the DOJ, and the attorneys general of several states to resolve antitrust investigations into our merchant acceptance rules in the United States. As part of the settlement, we now allow U.S. merchants to offer discounts or other incentives to steer customers to a particular form of payment including to a specific network brand or to another card product, such as a “non-reward” Visa credit card. Our rules always have allowed U.S. merchants to steer customers to other forms of payment and offer discounts to customers who choose to pay with cash, check or debit when authorized by a personal identification number, or PIN. The new rules thus expand U.S. merchants’ ability to discount for their preferred form of payment, though they may not pick and choose among issuing banks. The settlement does not address our rule prohibiting U.S. merchants from surcharging consumers who pay with Visa. • Client Contracts. We continued to take steps to solidify our foundation for long-term growth by successfully renewing several major client contracts throughout the year. • Ongoing Growth. The progress towards economic recovery and secular shift from cash and checks to electronic payments helped to drive double-digit growth across our three primary revenue drivers—payments volume, cross-border volume and Visa-processed transactions—which contributed to our 14% growth in year-over-year net operating revenues for fiscal 2011. Industry Overview The Global Payments Industry We operate in the global payments industry, which is undergoing a powerful secular shift towards card-based and other electronic payments and away from paper-based payments, such as cash and checks. For more than 50 years, we have played a central role in driving this migration by providing payment products and services that we believe deliver significant benefits to consumers, businesses, governments and merchants. We believe that consumers are increasingly attracted to the convenience, security, enhanced services and rewards associated with electronic payment forms. We also believe that corporations and governments are shifting to electronic payments to improve efficiency, control and security, and that a growing number of merchants are accepting electronic payments to improve sales and customer convenience. 5 Table of Contents The global payments industry consists of all forms of payment and value transfer, including: • paper-based payments—cash, personal checks, money orders, government checks, travelers cheques and other paper-based means of transferring value; • card-based payments—credit cards, charge cards, debit cards, deferred debit cards, ATM cards, prepaid cards, private label cards and other types of general-purpose and limited-use cards; • mobile payments—electronic payments through mobile phones and other handheld devices using a variety of applications such as text messages, mobile billing, web browsers or applications, contactless readers, or other means; and • other electronic payments—wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, automated clearing house payments and other forms of electronic payment not typically tied to a payment card or similar access device. The most common card-based forms of payment are general purpose cards, which offer widespread merchant acceptance. General purpose cards are typically categorized as: • “pay now” cards, such as debit cards, which enable the cardholder to purchase goods and services by an automatic debit to a checking, demand deposit or other account with accessible funds; • “pay later” cards, such as credit, deferred debit and charge cards, which typically permit a cardholder to carry a balance in a revolving credit or deferred debit account or require payment of the full balance within a specified period; and • “pay before” cards, such as prepaid cards, which are pre-funded up to a certain monetary value. Primary general purpose card brands include Visa, MasterCard, American Express, JCB and Discover/Diners Club. While these brands, including Visa, were historically associated with consumer credit or charge cards in the United States and other major international markets, we and others have, over time, broadened our offerings to include debit, ATM, prepaid and commercial payment products. Our Core Operations We derive revenues primarily from fees paid by our clients based on payments volume, transactions that we process and other related services we provide. Our clients deliver Visa products and payment services to consumers and merchants based on product platforms we define and manage. Payments network management is a core part of our operations, as it ensures that our payments system provides a safe, efficient, consistent and interoperable service to cardholders, merchants and financial institutions worldwide. Transaction Processing Services Processing Infrastructure We own and operate VisaNet, which consists of multiple synchronized processing centers, including two data centers in the United States. In addition, Visa Europe operates processing centers in the United Kingdom, which is part of our synchronized system, in accordance with the terms of our Framework Agreement with Visa Europe. These centers are linked by a global telecommunications network and are engineered for redundancy. Intelligent access points around the world complete our global processing infrastructure and enable merchants and financial institutions worldwide to access our core processing and value-added services. 6 Table of Contents VisaNet is built on a centralized architecture, enabling us to view and analyze each authorization transaction we process in real time and to provide value-added information, such as risk scoring or loyalty applications, while the transaction data is being routed through our system. CyberSource, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Visa Inc., operates multiple data centers in the United States and internationally. These secure data center facilities allow for high availability transaction services and connectivity to the Internet, clients and processing partners. Core Processing Services Our core processing services involve the routing of payment information and related data to facilitate the authorization, clearing and settlement of transactions between Visa issuers and acquirers. In addition, we offer a range of value-added processing services to support our clients’ Visa programs and to promote the growth and security of our payments network. Authorization is the process of approving or declining a transaction before a purchase is finalized or cash is disbursed. Clearing is the process of delivering final transaction data from an acquirer to an issuer for posting to the cardholder’s account, the calculation of certain fees and charges that apply to the issuer and acquirer involved in the transaction, and the conversion of transaction amounts to the appropriate settlement currencies. Settlement is the process of calculating, determining, reporting and transferring the net financial position of our issuers and acquirers for all transactions that are cleared. The issuer and acquirer involved in a typical Visa transaction perform additional functions that we do not generally perform or monitor. For example, the acquirer credits the merchant’s account for the amount of the transaction less any fees the acquirer charges in accordance with the contractual agreement between the merchant and the acquirer. In addition, the issuer sends a statement to the cardholder and collects payment, in the case of a credit or deferred debit card, or collects payment directly from the cardholder’s deposit account, in the case of a debit card. We process most Visa transactions occurring in the United States. We also process most Visa transactions where the issuer and the merchant are located in different countries, which we refer to as cross-border transactions. In many countries outside the United States, domestic transactions may be processed outside of our systems, generally by government-controlled payments networks, our clients, independent companies or joint ventures owned in whole or in part by our clients. We perform clearing and settlement through VisaNet for transactions involving an issuer that is located in Visa Europe’s region and an acquirer that is located in the rest of the world, or vice versa. Visa Europe authorizes, clears and settles transactions for its members through its own processing system. Other Value-Added Processing Services We offer a range of other value-added services in certain countries, including risk management, issuer processing, loyalty, dispute management, value-added information and CyberSource-branded services. Risk Management Services. We provide clients in certain countries with a number of value-added risk-management services. These services, including Visa Advanced Authorization, provide preventive, monitoring, investigative and predictive tools, which are intended to mitigate and help eliminate fraud at the cardholder and merchant level. Issuer Processing Services. Visa Debit Processing Services, or DPS, provides comprehensive issuer processing services for participating U.S. issuers of Visa debit, prepaid and ATM payment 7 Table of Contents products. In addition to core issuer authorization processing, DPS offers card management services, exception processing, PIN and ATM network gateways, call center services, fraud detection services and ATM terminal driving. Visa Processing Service, or VPS, provides credit, debit and prepaid issuer processing services, including multi-currency processing functionality, outside the United States. Loyalty Services. We offer loyalty services, which allow our clients to differentiate their Visa program offerings, enhance the attractiveness of their Visa payment programs and strengthen their relationships with cardholders and merchants. Dispute Management Services. We manage Visa Resolve Online, an automated web-based service that allows our clients’ back-office analysts and client service representatives to manage and resolve Visa transaction disputes more efficiently than with paper-based processes. Value-Added Information Services. We provide our clients with a range of additional information-based business analytics and applications, as well as the transaction data and associated infrastructure required to support them. CyberSource-branded services. We provide technology and services that make it easier for eCommerce merchants to accept, process and reconcile payments, manage fraud, and safeguard payment security online. CyberSource brings these payment management solutions to market on two platforms: CyberSource Enterprise services, targeting medium and large-sized enterprise businesses; and Authorize.Net, targeting smaller businesses with less than $3 million in annual online sales. Product Platforms We offer a broad range of product platforms that enable our clients to build differentiated, competitive payment programs for their consumer, business, government and merchant clients. Our principal payment platforms enable credit, charge, deferred debit, debit and prepaid payments, as well as cash access for consumers, businesses and government entities. Our payment platforms are offered under our Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Consumer Credit Our consumer credit product platforms allow our issuers to offer deferred payment and financing products that can be customized to meet the needs of all consumer segments. Our baseline consumer credit platform is marketed to our issuers as Visa Classic. In addition, we offer a range of premium credit platforms that enable our issuers to tailor programs to consumers requiring higher credit lines or enhanced benefits, such as loyalty programs. Our premium consumer credit platforms are marketed to issuers, and in some cases, to cardholders, as Visa Gold, Visa Platinum, Visa Signature, Visa Signature Preferred and Visa Infinite. Consumer Deposit Access Our deposit access product platforms enable our issuers to offer consumer payment and cash access products that draw on consumers’ deposit accounts, such as checking, demand deposit or other pre-funded accounts. Consumer Debit. Our primary consumer debit platform in the United States and many other countries uses the Visa brand mark. Depending on local marketplace point of sale practices, there are a variety of cardholder verification methods to suit specific merchant segments or acceptance channels, while ensuring a valid and secure transaction. Visa Debit transactions can be authenticated 8 Table of Contents by a cardholder’s signature, a PIN, no signature if the transaction is for a small purchase amount, or another means of authentication. In the United States, in addition to the Visa debit product, we also provide the Interlink debit product platform. Interlink is a PIN-always, single-message platform generally for U.S. domestic transactions. U.S. issuers can choose to enable Interlink on a Visa debit card, and U.S. merchants can choose Interlink as a PIN-always point of sale acceptance option. Additionally, Interlink can remain as a routing alternative on both Visa and non-Visa-branded debit cards. Our clients in Asia Pacific, or AP, Latin America and Caribbean, or LAC, and Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, or CEMEA, can use the Visa Electron debit platform, which requires all transactions initiated from the card to be authorized electronically. It is primarily used by issuers offering payment programs to higher-risk client segments or in countries where electronic authorization is less prevalent. Prepaid. Our prepaid product platform enables issuers to offer products that access a pre-funded account, allowing cardholders to enjoy the convenience and security of a payment card in lieu of cash or checks. Our prepaid platform includes general purpose reloadable, gift, travel, youth, payroll, money transfer, corporate incentive, insurance reimbursement and government benefits cards. Cash Access. Our clients can provide global cash access to their cardholders by issuing products accepted at Visa and PLUS branded ATMs. Most Visa and Visa Electron branded cards offer cash access at ATMs, as well as at branches of our participating financial institution clients. The PLUS brand may also be included on issuers’ non-Visa branded cards to offer international cash access as a complement to domestic cash access services. Commercial Our commercial product platforms enable small businesses, medium and large companies, and government organizations to streamline payment processes, manage total spend, access information reporting, automate their supply chain and reduce administrative costs. Small Businesses. The Visa Business credit and debit platforms provide small businesses with cash flow tools, purchasing savings, rewards and management reporting. Visa Business Electron is an electronic authorization platform used in many countries outside North America. Large and Medium Companies. The Visa Corporate platform offers payment options primarily for employee travel and entertainment charges, including cash advances, and provides detailed transaction data as well as information and expense management tools. The Visa Purchasing platform provides card and non-card electronic payment products that allow companies to easily procure goods and services, while streamlining resource- and paper-intensive purchase order and invoice processing. Through Syncada, our joint venture with US Bank, we market an integrated invoice processing, payment and financing platform for financial institutions to offer to their corporate and government commercial clients around the world. Government Organizations. In addition to the products mentioned above, we offer government organizations unique information- and expense-management tools, employee-fraud- and misuse-management tools and strategic sourcing tools for their card programs. In certain countries, we offer specialized commercial products for specific government-sponsored programs, typically targeting agriculture, small-business, freight or construction loan programs. Product Platform Innovation Our fundamental approach to innovation focuses on enhancing our current product platforms, enabling more Visa transactions in every channel, and extending the utility of our products and services to access points, such as eCommerce and mobile, and new merchant segments and geographies. 9 Table of Contents We invest in innovation, because we believe we can drive more secure, accessible and versatile payment program options for clients, merchants and consumers. We focus on new payment channels, payment technologies, payment account access devices and authentication methods, and have recently made significant investments in the development of eCommerce and mobile payment platforms; contact and contactless chip cards and devices; card product enhancements; authentication and security technologies and platforms; and money transfer. We announced the following developments: • Fundamo: We acquired Fundamo, a leading provider of mobile financial services. This will enable Visa to offer a full range of mobile financial services to unbanked and under-banked consumers in developing countries. • Monitise: We executed a five-year commercial agreement with Monitise, which operates payments and mobile banking services for some of the world’s leading financial institutions. This allows Visa to “mobilize” existing Visa accounts and offer, in partnership with financial institutions, a suite of mobile financial services. • PlaySpan: We acquired PlaySpan, a privately held company whose payments platform handles transactions for digital goods in online games, digital media and social networks around the world. • Visa Digital Wallet: We announced Visa’s digital wallet, which will provide a simpler and secure way for consumers to “click to buy” eCommerce and mCommerce purchases. • Mobile Partnerships: We have licensed our mobile NFC payment technology, Visa payWave, to Google and Isis to ensure third-party mobile wallets are enabled with Visa payment functionality. • Real Time Messaging for Merchants: We launched a Real Time Messaging, or RTM, platform to deliver, in partnership with merchants, real-time, location-based and relevant merchant discounts and promotions to consumers who opt in to the service. Payments Network Management We devote significant resources to ensure that Visa is the payments network of choice for clients, merchants and cardholders. We seek to accomplish this by promoting our brand through marketing and sponsorship activities, educating domestic and regulatory banking authorities on our capabilities, increasing issuance and acceptance of Visa products around the world and ensuring that the system operates reliably and securely for all of our network participants. Brand Management and Promotion, and Corporate Reputation We engage in a variety of activities designed to maintain and enhance the value of our brand, taking a targeted, analytical approach tailored by geography to achieve our growth and business objectives. We combine advertising, sponsorships, promotions, public relations and, increasingly, social media to create programs that build active preference for products carrying our brand, promote product usage, increase product acceptance and support cardholder acquisition and retention. For merchants, we work to ensure that the Visa brand represents timely and guaranteed payment, as well as a way to increase sales. For our issuer clients, our marketing program is designed to support their card issuance, activation and usage efforts while complementing and enhancing the value of their own brands. We establish global marketing relationships to promote the Visa brand and to allow clients to conduct marketing programs in conjunction with major sporting and entertainment events. For instance, we have been the exclusive payment card sponsor for the Olympic Games since 1986 and 10 Table of Contents have extended the sponsorship through 2020. We are also one of six FIFA partners, which provides us with worldwide exclusive access to the FIFA World Cup™ and more than 40 other FIFA competitions through 2014. This sponsorship creates a powerful opportunity to drive business, achieve maximum exposure and improve brand lift, global reach and local relevance. In addition, we engage in marketing and sponsorship activities with other regional, national and local companies, sports leagues or events, such as the National Football League in the United States, or with associations and companies, to provide customized marketing platforms to clients in certain countries and regions. Our merchant marketing activities bring added value to our merchant partners through the development of marketing programs customized for specific merchants and industry segments. These programs, which we develop in conjunction with merchants, generate awareness for new acceptance channels and locations and increase cardholder spending and merchant sales revenue through special offers and promotions. In addition, we work on various fronts to maintain, enhance and protect our corporate reputation and brand. Our Corporate Responsibility program helps ensure we positively impact the lives of those in our global and local communities. We do so by promoting financial literacy and inclusion, providing humanitarian aid and community support, and engaging in responsible business practices. We continue to promote an understanding of Visa’s role as a payments network and articulate the ways that digital currency can advance economic empowerment and business efficiencies. To that end, Currency of Progress, our corporate reputation campaign launched in October 2009, communicates the tangible benefits that Visa and digital currency delivers to individuals, businesses, governments and economies. Merchant Acceptance Initiatives We aim to maintain and expand our merchant base by focusing on the needs of merchants and consumers and enhancing our programs to increase acceptance in attractive and fast-growing segments, such as bill payment. Our efforts to address these needs include supporting the development of technological innovations, delivering value-added information services, and evaluating potential modifications to our operating rules and interchange rates to enhance the value of our payments network compared to other forms of payment. For example, in October 2010 we began offering a global program that enables millions of face-to-face merchants to accept Visa cards for transactions of approximately $25 or less without requiring a cardholder signature, PIN or providing a receipt, unless requested by the cardholder. This program can increase speed at the point of sale, enhance consumer satisfaction and deliver operating efficiencies for merchants. We also enter into arrangements with certain merchants under which they receive monetary incentives and rebates for acceptance of products carrying our brands and increasing their payments volume of products carrying our brands or indicating a preference for our products. Client Standards Rulemaking and Enforcement. In general, our clients are granted licenses to use our brands and to access our transaction processing systems. Our clients are obligated to honor our rules and standards through agreements with, and in certain cases non-equity membership interests in, our subsidiaries. These rules and standards relate to such matters as the use of our brands and trademarks; the standards, design and features of payment cards, devices and programs; processing; merchant acquiring activities, including use of agents; disputes between members; risk management; guaranteed settlement; client financial failures and allocation of losses among clients. We establish dispute management procedures between clients relating to specific transactions. For example, after a transaction is presented to an issuer, the issuer may determine that the transaction is invalid for a variety of reasons, including fraud. If the issuer believes there is a defect in a 11 Table of Contents transaction, the issuer may return the transaction to the acquirer, an action termed a “chargeback.” We enforce rules relating to chargebacks and maintain a dispute resolution process with respect to chargeback disputes. Credit Risk Management. We indemnify our clients for any settlement loss suffered due to another client’s failure to fund its daily settlement obligations. In certain instances, we may indemnify clients even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. We have incurred no material loss related to settlement risk in recent years. To manage our exposure in the event our clients fail to fund their settlement obligations, we established a credit risk policy with a formalized set of credit standards and risk control measures. We regularly evaluate clients with significant settlement exposure to assess risk. In certain instances, we may require a client to post collateral or provide other guarantees. If a client becomes unable or unwilling to meet its obligations, we are able to draw upon such collateral or guarantee in order to minimize any potential loss. We may also apply other risk control measures, such as blocking the authorization and settlement of transactions, limiting the use of certain types of agents, prohibiting initiation of acquiring relationships with certain high-risk merchants or suspending or terminating a client’s rights to participate in our payments network. The exposure to settlement losses is accounted for as a settlement risk guarantee. The fair value of the settlement risk guarantee is estimated using our proprietary model, which considers statistically derived loss factors based on historical experience, estimated settlement exposures at period end and a standardized grading process for clients (using, where available, third-party estimates of the probability of customer failure). See Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Note 12—Settlement Guarantee Management elsewhere in this report. Payment System Integrity The integrity of our payments system is affected by fraudulent activity and other illegal uses of our products. Fraud is most often committed in connection with counterfeit cards or card-not-present transactions using stolen account information resulting from security breaches of systems not associated with VisaNet that store cardholder or account data, including systems operated by merchants, financial institutions and other third-party data processors. Our fraud detection and prevention offerings include: • Verified by Visa, a global Internet authentication product, which permits cardholders to authenticate themselves to their issuing financial institution using a unique personal code; • Visa Advanced Authorization, which provides enhanced fraud detection capability by adding real-time risk scores to authorization messages; • Chip technologies, embedded microprocessors that provide enhanced security, which reduce the incidence of counterfeit card fraud. As a result, Visa has created incentives for merchants and issuers to adopt them, including in the United States. Chip technologies can also carry other applications that enhance the consumer payment experience; and • CyberSource’s globally proven Decision Manager solution, which provides access to over 200 validation tests to assess the legitimacy of card-not-present orders. We work with all participants in the payment system to ensure that any entity that transmits, processes or stores sensitive card information takes necessary steps to secure that data and protect cardholders. For example, we mandate protection of PIN data through use of the Triple Data Encryption Standard and work with the payments industry to manage the Payment Card Industry Data 12 Table of Contents Security Standards (PCI DSS). There has been significant progress in growing industry adoption of PCI DSS, with more than 97% percent of the largest U.S. merchants validating compliance annually. Government Regulation General. Government regulation affects key aspects of our business. Our clients are also subject to numerous regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the United States and elsewhere, and consequently such regulations have the potential to affect our business indirectly. In recent years, our business has come under increasing regulatory scrutiny. See Item 1A—Risk Factors—Increased global regulatory focus on the payments industry may result in costly new compliance burdens on our clients and on us, leading to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues. The Reform Act. As noted, during the 2011 fiscal year, the U.S. Federal Reserve established new rules under the Reform Act affecting interchange reimbursement fees, network exclusivity and transaction routing. We expect these rules to have an adverse impact on our pricing, reduce the number and volume of U.S. debit payments we process and decrease associated revenues. See Item 1—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview and Item 1A—Risk Factors—The Reform Act may have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. We have significantly modified our debit strategy as a result. See —Overview. Interchange Reimbursement Fees. We have historically set default interchange reimbursement fees in the United States and many other geographies. The new rules under the Reform Act set the maximum U.S. debit interchange reimbursement fee assessed for cards issued by large financial institutions at twenty-one cents plus five basis points, before applying an interim fraud adjustment up to an additional one cent. This amounts to a significant reduction from the average system-wide fees charged previously. See Item 1A—Risk Factors—The Reform Act may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business; Item 1A—Risk Factors—Increasing regulation of interchange reimbursement fees and other business practices may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business, and Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 21—Legal Matters elsewhere in this report. The United States is not the only jurisdiction to regulate interchange reimbursement fees. For example, the Reserve Bank of Australia has enacted a regulation limiting the costs that can be considered in setting interchange reimbursement fees for both our credit and our debit cards. Interchange reimbursement fees represent a transfer of value among the financial institutions participating in an open-loop payments network such as ours. On purchase transactions, interchange reimbursement fees are paid to issuers by acquirers in connection with transactions initiated from products in our payments system. We generally do not receive any portion of interchange reimbursement fees in a transaction. They are, however, a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. Default interchange reimbursement fees are an important driver of system volume and value. They promote the efficient operation of our payments network by enabling both the issuer and the acquirer to understand the economics of a given transaction before entering into it and by giving our clients an alternative to negotiating transfer pricing with each other. By establishing and modifying default interchange rates in response to marketplace conditions and strategic demands, we seek to ensure a competitive value proposition for transactions using our cards in order to encourage electronic 13 Table of Contents transactions and to maximize participation in the Visa payments system by issuers and acquirers and, ultimately, consumers and merchants. We believe that proper management of interchange rates benefits consumers, merchants, our financial institution clients and us by promoting the overall growth of our payments network in competition with other payment card systems and other forms of payment, and by creating incentives for innovation, enhanced data quality and security. Merchants do not directly pay interchange reimbursement fees. A merchant’s cost of acceptance is determined by its acquirer and is called a merchant discount or merchant discount rate. The merchant discount typically covers the costs that acquirers incur for participation in open-loop payments networks, including those relating to interchange, and compensates them for various other services they provide to merchants. Merchant discount rates and other merchant fees are set by our acquirers without our involvement and by agreement with their merchant clients and are established in competition with other acquirers, other payment card systems and other forms of payment. We do not establish or regulate the level of merchant discount rates or any other fees charged by our acquirers. Network Exclusivity and Routing. We have agreements with some issuers under which they agree to issue certain payment cards that use only the Visa network or receive incentives if they do so. In addition, issuers of some debit products choose to include only the Visa network. We refer to these various practices as network exclusivity. In addition, certain network or issuer rules or practices may be interpreted as limiting the routing options of merchants when multiple debit networks co-reside on Visa debit cards. For example, Visa’s rules require that an acquirer must process authorizations for all international transactions through VisaNet and that a member must clear international transactions through VisaNet. Issues relating to network exclusivity and the routing of transactions over VisaNet are being reviewed or challenged in various jurisdictions in which our cards are used. Most notably, the new rules under the Reform Act limit our and issuers’ ability to impose rules for, or choose various forms of, network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit area. The rules require issuers to make at least two unaffiliated networks available for processing debit transactions on each debit card. The rules also prohibit us and issuers from restricting a merchant’s ability to direct the routing of electronic debit transactions over any of the networks that an issuer has enabled to process those transactions. As another example, the Canadian Ministry of Finance has implemented a voluntary Code of Conduct for payment card industry participants, with which Visa has agreed to comply. Among other things, the Code of Conduct prohibits certain restrictions on merchants’ choice of payment options they will accept. See Item 1A—Risk Factors—The Reform Act may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business and Item 1A—Risk Factors—Regulations that prohibit us from contracting with clients or requiring them to use only our network, or denying them the option of selecting only our network, may decrease the number of transactions we process and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Reform Act created a new independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, with responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services and new authority with respect to consumer protection issues, including those pertaining to us to some extent. The bureau’s future actions may make payment card transactions less attractive to card issuers, consumers and merchants by further regulating the industry. No-Surcharge Rules. We have historically implemented policies that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using Visa instead of other means. Several jurisdictions have expressed an interest in putting an end to these no-surcharge rules. Most recently, the Reserve 14 Table of Contents Bank of Australia has enacted a regulation stopping us from prohibiting merchants from imposing surcharges on customers who use Visa, affecting the manner in which we conduct our business there. Data Protection and Information Security. We devote substantial resources to maintain and to continually refine our information security program in order to comply with U.S. federal and state and foreign regulations safeguarding cardholder information and requiring consumer notification in the event of a security breach. In addition, the U.S. Federal Financial Institution Examination Council periodically reviews certain of our operations in the United States to ensure our compliance with data integrity, security and operational requirements and standards, as well as other requirements applicable to us because of our role as a service provider to financial institutions. Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism and Sanctioned Countries. In response to U.S. and other regulations, we devote substantial resources to maintain and to continually refine a program to prevent the use of our payments system to facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. We also prohibit from being Visa members all financial institutions that are domiciled in countries sanctioned by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control—currently Cuba, Iran, Myanmar, Syria and Sudan. In addition, we refrain from any financial dealings with restricted third parties, such as identified money-laundering fronts for terrorists and narcotics traffickers. Government-Imposed Market Participation Restrictions. Our business’s reach remains limited by certain countries’ protection of domestic payment card providers or payment processing providers. Most notably, our financial institution clients in China may not issue cards carrying our brands for domestic use in China, limiting our opportunities in that market. Regulators in Australia, Mexico, Colombia, India, Singapore, Russia and Malaysia have received statutory authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments systems in these countries. Regulation of Internet Transactions. Many jurisdictions have adopted or are in the process of adopting new regulations and taxes on internet transactions. Most notably, we have had to implement compliance programs in response to new U.S. regulations requiring the coding and blocking of payments for certain types of Internet gambling transactions. In addition, the U.S. Congress continues its consideration of regulatory initiatives in the areas of Internet prescription drug purchases, copyright and trademark infringement, and privacy, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our clients. Some U.S. states are considering a variety of similar legislation. If implemented, these initiatives could require us or our clients to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. Various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would affect our clients directly. These new requirements and developments may affect our clients’ ability to extend credit by using payment cards, which could decrease our transaction volumes. In some circumstances, new regulations could have the effect of limiting our clients’ ability to offer new types of payment programs or restricting their ability to offer our existing programs such as stored value cards. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology. We own a number of patents and patent applications relating to payments solutions, transaction processing, security systems and other matters. We own a number of valuable trademarks and designs, which are essential to our business, including, but not limited to 15 Table of Contents Visa, Interlink, PLUS, Visa Electron, the “Winged V” design, the “Dove” design and the “Bands Design-Blue, White & Gold.” We also own numerous other valuable trademarks and designs covering various brands, products, programs and services. Through agreements with our clients, we authorize and monitor the use of our trademarks in connection with their participation in our payments network. Competition We compete in the global payment marketplace against all forms of payment, including paper-based forms, principally cash and checks; card-based payments, including credit, charge, debit, ATM, prepaid, private-label and other types of general purpose and limited-use cards; and other electronic payments, including wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, automatic clearing house, or ACH, payments and electronic data interchange. Within the general purpose payment card industry, we face substantial and intense competition worldwide in the provision of payments services to financial institution clients and their cardholder merchants. The leading global card brands in the general purpose payment card industry are Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Diners Club. Other general-purpose card brands are more concentrated in specific geographic regions, such as JCB in Japan and Discover in the United States. In certain countries, our competitors have leading positions, such as China UnionPay in China, which is the sole domestic inter-bank bankcard processor and operates the sole domestic bankcard acceptance mark in China due to local regulation. We also compete against private-label cards, which can generally be used to make purchases solely at the sponsoring retail store, gasoline retailer or other merchant. In the debit card market segment, Visa and MasterCard are the primary global brands. In addition, our Interlink and Visa Electron brands compete with Maestro, owned by MasterCard, and various regional and country-specific debit network brands including STAR, NYCE, and PULSE in the United States, EFTPOS in Australia and Interac in Canada. In addition to our PLUS brand, the primary cash access card brands are Cirrus, owned by MasterCard, and many of the online debit network brands referenced above. In many countries, local debit brands are the primary brands, and our brands are used primarily to enable cross-border transactions, which typically constitute a small portion of overall transaction volume. We increasingly face competition from emerging players in the payment space, many of which are non-financial institution networks that have departed from the more traditional “bank-centric” business model. The emergence of these competitive networks has primarily been via the online channel with a focus on eCommerce and/or mobile technologies. PayPal is one example. It competes with Visa directly in some cases, yet PayPal also is one of Visa’s largest global eCommerce merchants. 16 Table of Contents Based on payments volume, total volume, number of transactions and number of cards in circulation, Visa is the largest retail electronic payments network in the world. The following chart compares our network with those of our major general-purpose payment network competitors for calendar year 2010: Company PaymentsVolume TotalVolume TotalTransactions Cards (billions) (billions) (billions) (millions) Visa Inc.(1) $ 3,273 $ 5,191 70.8 1,897 MasterCard 2,047 2,727 34.8 975 American Express 702 713 4.8 91 Discover 107 114 1.8 56 JCB 87 93 0.9 64 Diners Club 26 27 0.2 6 (1) Visa Inc. figures as reported on form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 2 and May 5, 2011, respectively. Visa figures represent total volume, payments volume and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for products carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Payments volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period. Total volume represents payments volume plus cash volume. The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa’s clients on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, clients may update previously submitted information. Sources: MasterCard, American Express, JCB and Diners Club data sourced from The Nilson Report issue 968 (March 2011). Includes all consumer and commercial credit, debit and prepaid cards. Some prior year figures have been restated. Currency figures are in U.S. dollars. MasterCard excludes Maestro and Cirrus figures. American Express includes figures for third-party issuers. JCB figures are for April 2009 through March 2010 and include third-party issuers. Transactions are estimates. Diners Club figures are for the 12 months ended November 30, 2010. Discover data sourced from The Nilson Report issue 963 (January 2011)—U.S. data only and includes business from third-party issuers. For more information on the concentration of our operating revenues and other financial information, see Note 14—Enterprise-wide Disclosures and Concentration of Business to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Working Capital Requirements Payments settlement due from and due to issuing and acquiring clients generally represents our most consistent and substantial working capital requirement, arising primarily from the payments settlement of certain credit and debit transactions and the timing of payments settlement between financial institution clients with settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar. These settlement receivables and payables generally remain outstanding for one to two business days, consistent with industry practice for such transactions. We maintain working capital sufficient to enable uninterrupted daily settlement. During fiscal 2011, we funded average daily net settlement receivable balances of $130 million, with the highest daily balance being $401 million. Seasonality We generally do not experience any pronounced seasonality in our business. No individual quarter of fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2010 accounted for more than 30% of our fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2010 operating revenues. 17 Table of Contents Employees At September 30, 2011, we employed approximately 7,500 persons worldwide. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good. Additional Information and SEC Reports Visa Inc. was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in May 2007. In October 2007, we undertook a reorganization of the global Visa enterprise. Prior to our reorganization, Visa operated as five corporate entities related by ownership and membership, each of which operated as a separate geographic region. As a result of the reorganization, all except Visa Europe became subsidiaries of Visa Inc. Visa Europe entered into a set of contractual arrangements with Visa Inc. in connection with the reorganization. We completed our initial public offering, or IPO, in March 2008. Our corporate Internet address is http://www.corporate.visa.com. On our investor relations page, accessible through our corporate website and at http://investor.visa.com, we make available, free of charge our annual reports on Forms 10-K, our quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q, our current reports on Forms 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The information contained on our website, including the information contained on our investor relations website, is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Regulatory Risks Increasing regulation of interchange reimbursement fees and other business practices may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. Interchange reimbursement fees represent a transfer of value among the financial institutions participating in a payments network such as ours. In connection with transactions initiated with products in our payments system, interchange reimbursement fees are typically paid to issuers: the financial institutions that issue Visa cards to cardholders. The fees are typically paid by acquirers: the financial institutions that offer Visa network connectivity and payments acceptance services to merchants. We refer to a system like ours, in which a payment network intermediates between the issuer and the acquirer, as an open-loop system. We generally do not receive any portion of interchange reimbursement fees in a transaction. They are, however, a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. Consequently, changes to these fees could substantially affect our revenues and the pace or breadth of overall payment electronification. We have historically set default interchange reimbursement fees in the United States and many other geographies. However, in certain jurisdictions, interchange rates and related practices are subject to continuing or increased government regulation. The Reform Act has already resulted in limitations on our ability to establish default interchange rates in the debit area in the United States. See—The Reform Act may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. In addition, interchange rates have become subject to continued or increased scrutiny elsewhere, and regulatory authorities and central banks in a number of jurisdictions have reviewed or are reviewing these rates. These jurisdictions include Australia, Canada, Brazil and South Africa. If we cannot set default interchange rates at optimal levels, issuers and acquirers may find our payments system unattractive. This could materially lower overall transaction volume or slow growth of 18 Table of Contents transactions in the future. It could also materially increase the attractiveness of closed-loop payments systems-those with direct connections to both merchants and consumers-and other forms of payment. In addition, issuers could begin to charge new or higher fees to consumers. This could make our card programs less desirable and reduce our transaction volumes and profitability. Acquirers could elect to charge higher discount rates to merchants, regardless of the level of Visa interchange, leading merchants not to accept cards for payment or to steer Visa cardholders to alternate payment systems. In addition, issuers and acquirers could attempt to decrease the expense of their card programs by seeking incentives from us or a reduction in the fees that we charge. Any of the foregoing could have a substantial, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. Regulations that prohibit us from contracting with clients or requiring them to use only our network, or denying them the option of selecting only our network, may decrease the number of transactions we process and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. In order to ensure our cardholders have a consistent experience, we promote certain practices to ensure that Visa-branded cards are processed over our network. We have agreements with some issuers under which they agree to issue certain payment cards that use only the Visa network or receive incentives if they do so. In addition, certain issuers of some debit products choose to include only the Visa network. We refer to these various practices as network exclusivity. In addition, certain network or issuer rules or practices may be interpreted as limiting the routing options of merchants when multiple debit networks co-reside on Visa debit cards. For example, Visa’s rules require that an acquirer must process authorizations for all international transactions through VisaNet and that a member must clear international transactions through VisaNet. The Reform Act already limits our and issuers’ ability to impose rules for, or choose various forms of, network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit area. See—The Reform Act may have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. These restrictions and future regulations like them in the United States and elsewhere could cause a material decrease in the number of transactions we process. In order to retain that transaction volume, we might have to reduce the fees we charge to issuers or acquirers, or we might have to increase the payments and other incentives we provide to issuers or acquirers or directly to merchants. Any of these eventualities could have a material, adverse affect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. The Reform Act may have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. As of October 1, 2011, in accordance with the Reform Act, the Federal Reserve capped the maximum U.S. debit interchange fee assessed for cards issued by large financial institutions at twenty-one cents plus five basis points, before applying an interim fraud adjustment up to an additional one cent. This amounted to a significant reduction from the average system-wide fees charged previously. The Federal Reserve has also promulgated regulations requiring issuers to make at least two unaffiliated networks available for processing debit transactions on each debit card. The rules also prohibit us and issuers from restricting a merchant’s ability to direct the routing of electronic debit transactions over any of the networks that an issuer has enabled to process those transactions. We expect these regulations to adversely affect our U.S. debit business and associated revenues. They will likely create negative pressure on our pricing, reduce the volume and number of U.S. debit payments we process, and diminish associated revenues. 19 Table of Contents These pressures will likely arise through various channels. A number of our clients may seek fee reductions or increased incentives from us to offset their own lost revenue. Some have announced that they may reduce the number of debit cards they issue and reduce investments they make in marketing and rewards programs. Some may impose new or higher fees on debit cards or demand deposit account relationships. Some may elect to issue fewer cards enabled with Visa-affiliated networks. We expect many merchants to use the routing regulations to redirect transactions or steer cardholders to other networks based on lowest cost or other factors. Because we may have to re-examine and possibly renegotiate certain of our contracts to ensure that their terms comply with new regulations, these and other clients will have the opportunity to renegotiate terms relating to fees, incentives and routing. In some cases, we may lose placement completely on issuers’ debit cards. The Reform Act created a new independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, with responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services and new authority with respect to consumer protection issues, including those pertaining to us to some extent. The bureau’s future actions may make payment card transactions less attractive to card issuers, consumers and merchants by further regulating disclosures, payment card practices, fees, routing and other matters with respect to credit, debit, and prepaid. Some elements of the Reform Act are vague or lack definition and create the potential for networks to pursue different strategies subject to their interpretation of the regulation. Our interpretation may result in our pursuit of strategies less effective than those of our competitors. Overall, these regulations and developments arising from the Reform Act could have a material, adverse affect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. New regulations or legal action in one jurisdiction or of one product segment may lead to new regulations in other jurisdictions or of other products. Regulators around the world increasingly note each other’s approaches to the regulation of the payments industry. Consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in another. The Reform Act is one notable such development. Similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one product segment may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another product. For example, regulations like those affecting debit payments could eventually spread to regulate credit. As a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another product segment. These include matters like interchange reimbursement fees, network exclusivity, operating regulations and preferred routing agreements. Conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our products, services, fees and other important aspects of our business. Either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government actions may prevent us from competing effectively against providers of domestic payments services in certain countries, materially and adversely affecting our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. Governments in some countries provide resources or protection to selected domestic payment card networks, brands and processing providers. These governments may take this action in order to support these providers. They may also take this action to keep us from entering these countries, to 20 Table of Contents force us to leave, or to restrict substantially our activities there. For example, the government of China, a significant emerging market, has increasingly tightened its rules requiring use of a domestic network. Additionally, governments in some countries may consider, regulatory requirements that mandate processing of domestic payments entirely in that country. This would prevent us from utilizing our global processing capabilities for our clients. Our efforts to effect change in these countries may not succeed. This could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global brands. Regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and data use and security could decrease the number of payment cards issued, our payments volume and our revenues. Recently, privacy, data use and security have received heightened legislative and regulatory focus in the United States (at the federal and state level) and in other countries. For example, in many jurisdictions consumers must be notified in the event of a data breach. These measures may materially increase our costs and our clients’ costs. They may also decrease the number of our cards our clients issue. This would materially and adversely affect our profitability. In addition, our failure, or the failure of our clients, to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, litigation and damage to our global reputation and our brands. Increased global regulatory focus on the payments industry may result in costly new compliance burdens on our clients and on us, leading to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues. Regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Complying with these and other regulations may increase our costs or reduce our revenue opportunities. Similarly, the impact of such regulations on our clients may reduce the volume of payments we process. Moreover, such regulations could limit the types of products and services that we offer, the countries in which our cards are used and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our cards. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects for future growth, financial condition and results of operations. Examples include: • Data Protection and Information Security. Aspects of our operations and business are subject to privacy regulation in the United States and elsewhere. Our financial institution clients in the United States are subject to similar requirements under the guidelines issued by the federal banking agencies. In addition, many U.S. states have enacted legislation requiring consumer notification in the event of a security breach. • Anti-Money-Laundering, Anti-Terrorism and Sanctions. The U.S.A. PATRIOT Act and similar laws in other jurisdictions require us to maintain an anti-money laundering program. Sanctions imposed by the U.S. Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, restrict us from dealing with certain countries and parties considered to be connected with money laundering, terrorism or narcotics. Non-U.S. Visa International members may not be similarly restricted, so in some cases our payments system may be used for transactions in or involving countries or parties subject to OFAC-administered sanctions, potentially subjecting us to penalties, reputational damage or loss of business. • Regulation of the Price of Credit. Many jurisdictions in which our cards are used have new or proposed regulations that could increase the costs of card issuance or decrease the flexibility of card issuers to charge interest rates and fees on credit card accounts. These include the Credit CARD Act and proposed regulations under it. They also include proposed changes to the Federal Truth in Lending Act, which, if implemented along with regulations required to be 21 Table of Contents promulgated under the Credit CARD Act, could result in a decrease in our payments volume and revenues. • Increased Central Bank Oversight. Several central banks around the world have increased, or are seeking to increase, their formal oversight of the retail electronic payments industry, in some cases designating them as “systemically important payment systems.” Such oversight may lead to additional regulations. These could include new settlement procedures or other operational rules to address credit and operational risks. They could also include new criteria for member participation and merchant access to our payments system. • Safety and Soundness Regulation. Recent federal banking regulations may make some financial institutions less attracted to becoming an issuer of our cards, because they may be subject to more conservative accounting procedures, increased risk management or higher capital requirements. • Regulation of Internet Transactions. Proposed legislation in various jurisdictions may make it less desirable or more costly to complete Internet transactions using our cards by affecting the legality of those transactions, the law that governs them, their taxation and the allocation of intellectual property rights. Litigation Risks Our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements or final judgments. Our retrospective responsibility plan addresses monetary liabilities from settlements of, or final judgments in, the covered litigation, which is described in Note 21—Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. The retrospective responsibility plan consists of several related mechanisms to fund settlements or judgments in the covered litigation. These include an escrow account funded with a portion of the net proceeds of our initial public offering and potential subsequent offerings of our shares of class A common stock (or deposits of cash to the escrow account in lieu of such offerings), a loss-sharing agreement and a judgment-sharing agreement. In addition, our U.S. members are obligated to indemnify us pursuant to Visa U.S.A.’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in accordance with their membership agreements. These mechanisms are unique, complicated, and tiered, and if we cannot use one or more of them, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows, or, in certain circumstances, even cause us to become insolvent. The principal remaining covered litigation involves interchange reimbursement fees. Since 2005, approximately 55 class actions and individual complaints have been filed on behalf of merchants against us, MasterCard and/or other defendants, including certain financial institutions that issue Visa-branded payment cards and acquire Visa-branded payment transactions in the U.S. We refer to this as the interchange litigation. Among other antitrust allegations, the plaintiffs allege that Visa’s setting of default interchange rates violated federal and state antitrust laws. The lawsuits have been transferred to a multidistrict litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The plaintiffs in the interchange litigation seek damages for alleged overcharges in merchant discount fees as well as injunctive and other relief. The consolidated class action complaint alleges that the plaintiffs estimate that damages will range in the tens of billions of dollars. Because these lawsuits were brought under the U.S. federal antitrust laws, any actual damages will be trebled. The allocation of any monetary judgment or a settlement among the defendants is governed by an omnibus agreement dated February 7, 2011. See Note 21—Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this report. 22 Table of Contents The Visa portion of a settlement or judgment covered by the omnibus agreement would be allocated in accordance with specified provisions of our retrospective responsibility plan. Failure of our retrospective responsibility plan to insulate us adequately from the impact of such settlements or judgments could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows and could even cause us to become insolvent. Even if our retrospective responsibility plan covered our monetary liabilities, settlements or judgments in the interchange litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, settlements or judgments in the interchange litigation could include restrictions on our ability to conduct business, which could increase our cost of doing business and limit our prospects for future growth. The retrospective responsibility plan addresses only the covered litigation. The plan does not cover other pending litigation or any litigation that we may face in the future, except for cases that include claims for damages relating to the period prior to our initial public offering that are transferred for pre-trial proceedings or otherwise included in the interchange litigation. In addition, our retrospective responsibility plan covers only the potential monetary liability from settlements of, or judgments in, the covered litigation. Non-monetary settlement terms and judgments in the covered litigation may require us to modify the way we do business in the future. This could adversely affect our revenues, increase our expenses and/or limit our prospects for growth. Therefore, even if our retrospective responsibility plan provides us with adequate funding to satisfy our monetary obligations with respect to settlements of, and judgments in, the covered litigation, it may not insulate us from all potential adverse consequences of them. If we are found liable in certain other pending or future lawsuits, we may have to pay substantial damages or change our business practices or pricing structure, which may have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Like many other large companies, we are a defendant in a number of civil actions and investigations alleging violations of competition/antitrust law, consumer protection law, or intellectual property law, among others. Examples of such claims are described more fully in Note 21—Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this report. Some lawsuits involve complex claims that are subject to substantial uncertainties and unspecified damages; therefore, we cannot ascertain the probability of loss or estimate the damages. Accordingly, we have not established allowances for such legal proceedings. Private plaintiffs often seek class action certification in cases against us. This is particularly so in cases involving merchants and consumers, due to the size and scope of our business. If we are found liable in a large class action lawsuit, such as the United States or Canadian merchant class action lawsuits, monetary damages could be significant. See Note 21—Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this report. If we are unsuccessful in our defense against any material current or future legal proceedings, we may have to pay substantial damages. We may also have to change our business practices, including by limiting interchange reimbursement fees and by revising our rules about fees charged to consumers who choose to pay with Visa. This could limit our payments volume and result in a material and adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations, cash flow, financial conditions, prospects for future growth and overall business and could even cause us to become insolvent. Limitations on our business that resulted from litigation may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Certain limitations have been placed on our business in recent years because of litigation. For example, in October 2010, we reached a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice, or the DOJ, 23 Table of Contents and a number of state attorneys general relating to their investigation of certain Visa merchant acceptance practices. In accordance with the resulting consent decree, Visa will allow U.S. merchants to offer discounts or other incentives to steer cardholders to a particular form of payment including to a specific network brand or to any card product, such as a “non-reward” Visa credit card. See Note 21—Legal Matters to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. The settlement does not address surcharging or the setting of default interchange, and does not preclude the DOJ from pursuing a future investigation of these or other topics. This settlement and other limitations on our business that were the result of settlements of, or judgments in, litigation could limit the fees we charge and reduce our payments volume, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. Tax examinations or disputes, or changes in the tax laws applicable to us, could materially increase our tax payments. We exercise significant judgment in calculating our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, many factors may decrease their accuracy. We are currently under examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and we may be subject to additional examinations in the future. The tax authorities may disagree with our tax treatment of certain material items and thereby increase our tax liability. Failure to sustain our position in these matters could result in a material and adverse effect on our cash flow and financial position. In addition, changes in existing laws, such as recent proposals for fundamental U.S. and international tax reform, may also increase our effective tax rate. A substantial increase in our tax burden could have a material, adverse effect on our financial results. See also Note 20—Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this report. Our agreement with Visa Europe includes indemnity obligations that could expose us to significant liabilities. Under our framework agreement with Visa Europe, we indemnify it for losses resulting from all claims outside its region arising from our or their activities and relating to our or their payments business. This obligation applies even if neither we, nor any of our related parties or agents, participated in the actions giving rise to such claims. Such an obligation could expose us to significant liabilities for activities over which we have little or no control. Our retrospective responsibility plan would not cover these liabilities. Business Risks The intense pressure we face on client pricing may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profits. We offer incentives to clients in order to increase payments volume, enter new market segments and expand our card base. These include up-front cash payments, fee discounts, credits, performance-based incentives, marketing support payments and other support. Over the past several years, we have increased the use of incentives such as up-front cash payments and fee discounts in many countries, including the United States. In order to stay competitive, we may have to continue to increase our use of incentives. The economic pressures on our clients arising from the Reform Act have increased this pressure. See—The U.S. Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may have a material adverse impact on our 24 Table of Contents revenues, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. This pressure may make the provision of certain products and services less profitable, or unprofitable, and materially and adversely affect our operating revenues and profitability. Pressure on client pricing also poses indirect risks, presenting the potential for the same adverse effects. If we continue to increase incentives to our clients, we will need to find ways to offset the financial impact by increasing payments volume, the amount of fee-based services we provide or both. We may not succeed in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment. In addition, we benefit from long-term contracts with certain clients, including those that are large contributors to our revenue. Continued pressure on our fees could prevent us from entering into such agreements in the future on favorable terms. We may also have to modify existing agreements in order to maintain relationships or comply with regulations. Finally, increased pricing pressure enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives in areas other than those surrounding client incentives, and we may not succeed in these efforts. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer because of intense competition in our industry. The global payments industry is intensely competitive. Our payment programs compete against all forms of payment. These include cash, checks and electronic transactions, such as wire transfers and automatic clearinghouse payments. In addition, our payment programs compete against the card-based payments systems of our competitors and private-label cards issued by merchants. The Reform Act has increased this competitive pressure. Some of our competitors may develop substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. They may offer a wider range of programs and services than we do. They may use advertising and marketing strategies that are more effective than ours, achieving broader brand recognition and merchant acceptance than we do. They may develop better security solutions or more favorable pricing arrangements than we have. They may also introduce more innovative programs and services than we provide. Certain of our competitors operate with different business models, have different cost structures or participate selectively in different market segments. These include domestic networks in the United States, China, Canada, Australia, and other countries and regions. They may ultimately prove more successful or more adaptable to new regulatory, technological and other developments. In many cases, these competitors have the support of government mandates that prohibit, limit or otherwise hinder our ability to compete for or otherwise secure transactions within those countries and regions. Traditional or non-traditional competitors may put us at a competitive disadvantage by leveraging services or products in areas in which we do not directly compete to win business in areas where we do compete. Our clients can reassess their commitments to us at any time or develop their own competitive services. The risk to maintaining or securing our clients’ long-term commitments to our products has increased with the Reform Act’s restrictions on network exclusivity in the debit sector. Most of our larger client relationships are not exclusive. These include those with our largest clients: JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America. In certain circumstances, our clients may terminate these relationships, sometimes on relatively short notice, and in many cases subject to significant early termination fees. Because a significant portion of our operating revenues is concentrated among our largest clients, our operating revenues would decline significantly if we lost one or more of them. This could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Note 14—Enterprise-wide Disclosures and Concentration of Business to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this report. 25 Table of Contents We expect there to be changes in the competitive landscape in the future. For example: • Competitors, clients and others may develop products that compete with or replace the value-added services we provide to support our transaction processing; • Parties that process our transactions in certain countries may try to eliminate our position in the payments value chain; • Participants in the payments industry may merge, form joint ventures or enter into other business combinations that strengthen their existing business propositions or create new, competing payment services; or • Competition may increase from alternative types of payment services, such as mobile payments services, online payment services and services that permit direct debit of consumer checking accounts or ACH payments. Our failure to compete effectively in light of any such developments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. Disintermediation from the payments value chain would harm our business. Our position in the payments value chain underpins our business. Certain of our competitors, including American Express, Discover, private-label card networks and certain alternative payments systems, operate closed-loop payments systems, with direct connections to both merchants and consumers and no intermediaries. These competitors seek to derive competitive advantages from this business model. The Reform Act has provided them with increased opportunity to do so. In addition, although they pursue the same or similar lines of business using the same or similar business and commercial models, they have not attracted the same level of legal or regulatory scrutiny of their pricing and business practices as operators of multi-party payments systems such as ours. We also run the risk of disintermediation by virtue of increasing bilateral agreements between entities that would rather not use a payment network for processing payments. For example, merchants could process transactions directly with issuers, or processors could process transactions directly between issuers and acquirers. Additional consolidation in the banking industry could result in our losing business and create pressure on the fees we charge our clients, materially and adversely affecting our revenues and profitability. The banking industry has recently undergone substantial, accelerated consolidation, which could continue. Significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in the acquisition of one or more of our largest clients by an institution with a strong relationship with one of our competitors. This could result in the acquired bank’s Visa business shifting to that competitor, resulting in a substantial loss of business to us. In addition, one or more of our clients could merge with or acquire one of our competitors, shifting its payments volume to that competitor. Any such transaction could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Continued consolidation in the banking industry would also reduce the overall number of our clients and potential clients and could increase the negotiating power of our remaining clients and potential clients. This consolidation could lead financial institutions to seek greater pricing discounts or other incentives with us. In addition, consolidation could prompt our existing clients to seek to renegotiate their pricing agreements with us to obtain more favorable terms. We may also be adversely affected by price compression should one of our clients absorb another financial institution and qualify 26 Table of Contents for higher volume-based discounts on the combined volumes of the merged businesses. Pressure on the fees we charge our clients caused by such consolidation could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. In addition, the current economic environment could lead some clients to curtail or postpone near-term investments in growing their card portfolios, limit credit lines or take other actions that affect adversely the growth of our volume and revenue streams from these clients. Merchants’ continued focus on the costs associated with payment card acceptance may result in more litigation, regulation, regulatory enforcement and incentive arrangements. We rely in part on merchants and their relationships with our clients to maintain and expand the acceptance of our payment cards. Consolidation in the retail industry is producing a group of larger merchants that is having a significant impact on all participants in the global payments industry. Some merchants are seeking to reduce their costs associated with payment card acceptance by lobbying for new legislation and regulatory enforcement and by bringing litigation. If they continue, these efforts could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. We, as well as our clients, negotiate pricing discounts and other incentive arrangements with certain large merchants to increase acceptance and usage of our payment cards. If merchants continue to consolidate, we and our clients may have to increase the incentives provided to certain larger merchants. This could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. Competitive and regulatory pressures on pricing could make it difficult to offset the cost of these incentives. Certain financial institutions have exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards, and these relationships may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our revenues. Certain financial institutions have longstanding exclusive, or nearly exclusive, relationships with our competitors to issue payment cards. These relationships may make it difficult or cost-prohibitive for us to conduct material amounts of business with them in order to increase our revenues. In addition, these financial institutions may be more successful and may grow more quickly than our clients, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Failure to maintain relationships with our clients, merchant acquirers, merchants and third-party vendors, and the failure of clients to provide services on our behalf, could materially and adversely affect our business. We depend and will continue to depend significantly on relationships with our clients and on their relationships with cardholders and merchants to support our programs and services. We do not have direct relationships with cardholders. We do not issue cards, extend credit to cardholders or determine the interest rates, if any, or other fees charged to cardholders using cards that carry our brands. Each issuer determines these and most other competitive card features. As a result, the success of our business has depended significantly on, and will continue to depend on, the continued success and competitiveness of our clients and the strength of our relationships with them. Historically, we have not solicited merchants to accept our cards. In the wake of the Reform Act’s changes to rules on network exclusivity, we expect to engage in significantly more discussions with merchants and merchant acquirers. We already engage in many co-branding efforts, in which we contract with the merchant, who directly receives incentive funding. We also engage in some amount of merchant acceptance activity. As these and other relationships take on a greater importance for both 27 Table of Contents merchants and us, our success will increasingly depend on our ability to sustain and grow these relationships. In many countries outside the United States, our clients or other processors authorize, clear and settle most domestic transactions using our payment cards without involving our processing systems. This pattern is increasing with a rise in new systems endorsed by governments. Our inability to control the end-to-end processing for cards carrying our brands in these countries may put us at a competitive disadvantage by limiting our ability to ensure the quality of the services supporting our brands. In addition, we depend on third parties to provide various services on our behalf, and to the extent that third-party vendors fail to deliver services, our business and reputation could be impaired. The perception of our company in the marketplace may affect our brands and reputation, which are key assets of our business. Our brands and their attributes are key assets of our business. The ability to attract and retain consumer cardholders and corporate clients to Visa-branded products depends highly upon the external perceptions of our company and our industry. Our business may be affected by actions taken by our clients that change the perception of our brands. From time to time, our clients may take actions that we do not believe to be in the best interests of our brands, such as creditor practices that may be subject to challenge, which may materially and adversely affect our business. Further, Visa Europe has very broad latitude to operate the Visa business in and use our brands and technology within Visa Europe’s region, in which we have only limited control over the operation of the Visa business. Visa Europe is not required to spend any minimum amount of money promoting or building the Visa brands in its region, and the strength of the Visa global brands depends in part on the efforts of Visa Europe to maintain product and service recognition and quality in Europe. Finally, adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, impair our reputation or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. Unprecedented economic events in financial markets around the world have and are likely to continue to affect our clients, merchants and cardholders, resulting in a material and adverse impact on our prospects, growth, profitability, revenue and overall business. Unprecedented economic events that began in 2008 continue to affect the financial markets around the world. These include decreased consumer spending, increased unemployment, deflation, increased savings, decreased consumer debt, excess housing inventory, lowered government spending, decreased export activity, continued challenges in the credit environment, continued equity market volatility, additional government intervention, bank instability, downgrades of sovereign, bank and commercial debt, political issues affecting the handling of national debt, and the uncertainty arising from new government policies. This economic turmoil has affected the economies of the United States and other mature economies in particular. The fragility of the current situation would be exacerbated if additional negative economic developments were to arise. These could include, among other things, policy missteps, exhaustion of U.S. and other national economic stimulus packages, defaults on government debt in the United States, Europe or elsewhere, significant increases in oil prices, tax increases, economic turmoil in China, the euro zone or Japan, or a significant decline in the commercial real estate market. Most recently, the economic situation in Europe has been particularly unstable, arising from the real prospect of a default by Greece, and potentially other nations, on their debt obligations, If such a default occurs, or if the measures taken to avert such a default create their own instability, the impact is likely to be global and highly significant. 28 Table of Contents Some existing clients have been placed in receivership or under government administration. Many financial institutions are facing increased regulatory and governmental influence, including potential changes in laws and regulations. Many of our clients, merchants that accept our brands and cardholders who use our brands have been directly and adversely affected. Our financial results may be negatively affected by actions taken by individual financial institutions or by governmental or regulatory bodies in response to the economic crisis. The severity of the economic environment may accelerate the timing of or increase the impact of risks to our financial performance that have historically been present. As a result, our revenue growth has been and may continue to be negatively affected, or we may be affected, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: • Depressed consumer and business confidence may decrease cardholder spending. • Uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our clients’ businesses may reduce the accuracy of our estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives and realization of prepaid assets. • Our clients may implement cost-reduction initiatives that reduce or eliminate payment card marketing or increase requests for greater incentives or additional expense reductions, which may reduce our revenues. • Our clients may decrease spending for optional or enhanced services, affecting our revenue and reducing cardholders’ desire to use these products. • Our clients may increase cardholder fees as a cost-recovery initiative, or as a result of regulatory action, which could decrease our value proposition to consumers, thereby reducing consumers’ desire to use our products. • Government intervention or investments in our clients may negatively affect our business with those institutions or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. • Tightening of credit availability could affect the ability of participating financial institutions to lend to us under the terms of our credit facility. • The trading markets for U.S. government securities may be adversely affected by changes in investor sentiment. This could arise from a number of market forces, including, among others, the U.S. government’s inability to meet its obligations or a possible further downgrade in its debt rating. This in turn could adversely affect the liquidity of our investments, a substantial portion of which are U.S. treasury and government securities. • Our clients may default on their settlement obligations, including for reasons unrelated to payment card activity, such as mortgage matters. • Adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect the dollar value of our revenues and payments in foreign currencies. Finally, the stock markets have recently demonstrated extreme volatility. Additional declines in stock prices or significant instability could cause consumer spending to decline materially. Any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, growth, revenue, profitability and overall business. 29 Table of Contents A decline in non-U.S. and cross-border activity and in multi-currency transactions could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as we generate a significant portion of our revenue from such transactions. We generate a significant amount of our revenues from cross-border transactions. Our clients pay us fees in connection with cross-border transactions. Some of those fees may differ if conversion from the merchant’s currency to the cardholder’s billing currency is required. Thus, revenue from processing cross-border transactions for our clients fluctuates with cross-border travel and the need for transactions to be converted into a different currency. Cross-border travel may be adversely affected by world geopolitical, economic and other conditions. These include the threat of terrorism, natural disasters, the effects of climate change and outbreaks of diseases. A decline in cross-border travel could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. A decline in the need for conversion of currencies might also adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Moreover, if our clients decide to increase cardholder fees associated with cross-border transactions, there could be a decline in cardholder spending, since our value proposition to the consumer could be reduced. In addition, Visa derives revenue from foreign currency exchange activities that result from our clients’ settlement in different currencies. A reduction in, or other changes to, multi-currency transactions could decrease the need for or otherwise affect foreign currency exchange activities and adversely affect our revenues. Limitations or changes in our ability to set foreign currency exchange rates for multi-currency transactions as result of regulation, litigation, competitive pressures or other reasons may also adversely affect our revenues. Transactions outside the United States represent an increasingly important part of our strategy. If we do not maintain consistency in the types of products we provide, the quality of our service and the viability of our brand, we will be unable to continue to grow in those areas. Finally, because we are domiciled in the United States, a negative perception of the United States arising from its political or other positions could harm the perception of our company and our brand. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, prospects for future growth and overall business. We risk loss or insolvency if our clients fail to fund settlement obligations we have guaranteed. We indemnify issuers and acquirers for any settlement loss they suffer due to the failure of another issuer or acquirer to fund its daily settlement obligations. In certain instances, we may indemnify issuers or acquirers even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. This indemnification creates settlement risk for us due to the difference in timing between the date of a payment transaction and the date of subsequent settlement. The term and amount of our indemnification obligations are unlimited. Concurrent settlement failures involving more than one of our largest clients or several of our smaller clients may exceed our available financial resources, as could systemic operational failures lasting more than a single day. Any such failure could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if we have sufficient liquidity to cover a settlement failure, we may be unable to recover the amount of such payment. This could expose us to significant losses, materially and adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Some of our clients are composed of groups of financial institutions. Some of these clients have elected to limit their responsibility for settlement losses arising from the failure of their constituent financial institutions in exchange for managing their constituent financial institutions in accordance with 30 Table of Contents our credit risk policy. To the extent that any settlement failure resulting from a constituent financial institution exceeds the limits established by our credit risk policy, we would have to absorb the cost of such settlement failure, which could materially and adversely affect our cash flow and, potentially, our results of operations. If our transaction processing systems are disrupted or we cannot process transactions efficiently, the perception of our brands and our revenues or operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our transaction processing systems may experience service interruptions or degradation because of processing or other technology malfunction, fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism, climate change or accident. Our visibility in the global payments industry may attract terrorists and hackers to conduct physical or computer-based attacks, leading to an interruption in service, increased costs or the compromise of data security. If such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. Although we maintain a business continuity program and an information security program to address these risks, we cannot be sure that they will be effective. Additionally, we rely on service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. If a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require because of a natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. Because of the centrality of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of our brands’ reliability and materially reduce our revenues or profitability. If we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative payment programs and services, the use of our cards could decline, reducing our revenues and net income. Rapid, significant technological changes are confronting the payments industry. These include developments in smart cards, eCommerce, mCommerce and radio frequency and proximity payment devices, such as contactless cards. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge. These new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our card products and services. In addition, our ability to adopt new services and technologies that we develop may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, by resistance to change from clients or merchants or by third parties’ intellectual property rights. Our success will depend in part on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. Account data breaches involving card data stored, processed or transmitted could adversely affect our reputation and revenues. Our clients, merchants, others and we store, process and transmit cardholder account information in connection with our payment cards. In addition, our clients may use third-party processors to process transactions generated by cards carrying our brands. Breach of the systems storing, processing or transmitting sensitive cardholder data and account information could lead to fraudulent activity involving Visa-branded cards, to reputational damage and to claims against us. If we are sued in connection with any material data security breach, we could be involved in protracted litigation. If unsuccessful in defending such lawsuits, we may have to pay damages or change our business practices or pricing structure, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and 31 Table of Contents profitability. In addition, any reputational damage resulting from an account data breach could decrease the use and acceptance of our cards, which could have a material adverse effect on our payments volume, revenues and future growth prospects. Finally, any data security breach could result in additional regulation, which could materially increase our costs. An increase in fraudulent and other illegal activity involving our cards could lead to reputational damage to our brands and reduce the use and acceptance of our cards. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture cardholder account information. They use the information to conduct fraudulent transactions. Outsourcing and specialization of functions within the payments system are increasing. As a result, more third parties are involved in processing transactions using our cards. A rise in fraud levels involving our cards, or in misconduct by third parties processing transactions using our cards, could lead to reputational damage to our brands. This could reduce the use and acceptance of our cards or lead to greater regulation, which could increase our compliance costs. Failure to maintain interoperability between Visa Inc.’s and Visa Europe’s authorization and clearing and settlement systems could damage the business and global perception of the Visa brands. Before our reorganization in October 2007, Visa Europe and we shared authorization, clearing, and settlement systems. Visa Europe completed and substantially deployed its own systems in the 2010 fiscal year. As a result, Visa Europe and we will have to ensure that the two systems can process every transaction involving both of our territories, regardless of where it originates. Visa Europe’s newly independent system operations could present challenges to our business due to the heightened difficulty of maintaining the interoperability of our respective systems as they diverge over time. Failure to authorize or clear and settle inter-territory transactions quickly and accurately could impair the global perception of the Visa brands. Risks Related to our Structure and Organization We have little ability to control Visa Europe’s operations and limited recourse if it breaches its obligations to us. Visa Europe has very broad rights to operate the Visa business in its region under the agreement that governs our relationship. If we want to change a global rule or require Visa Europe to implement certain changes that would not have a positive return for Visa Europe and its members, then Visa Europe is not required to implement that rule or change unless we agree to pay for the implementation costs and expenses that Visa Europe and its members will incur as a consequence of the implementation. If Visa Europe fails to meet its obligations, our remedies under this agreement are limited. We cannot terminate the agreement even upon Visa Europe’s material, uncured breach. Although we have a call right to acquire Visa Europe, we can exercise that right under only extremely limited circumstances. These and other features of the licenses granted under the agreement may also raise issues concerning the characterization of the licenses for purposes of tax treatment of entry into the licenses and payments received thereunder. In some instances, as in the case of CyberSource and PlaySpan, Visa Europe may have the right to control the activities of newly acquired entities within Visa Europe’s territory. In any event, Visa 32 Table of Contents Europe’s exclusive license rights in Europe may hinder our ability to acquire new entities or to operate them effectively. Any inconsistency in the payment processing services and products that we can provide could negatively affect cardholders from Visa Europe using cards in the countries we serve or our cardholders using cards in Visa Europe’s region. If Visa Europe makes us acquire all of its outstanding stock, we will incur substantial costs and may suffer a material and adverse effect on our operations and net income. We have granted Visa Europe a put option requiring us to purchase all outstanding capital stock from its members if exercised. We will incur a financial obligation of several billion dollars or more if Visa Europe exercises this option. Visa Europe may do so at any time. We may need to obtain third-party financing in order to meet our obligation, by either borrowing funds or selling stock. An equity offering, or the payment of part of the exercise price in our stock, would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. We would have only 285 days to pay the exercise price. Sufficient financing might not be available to us within that time on reasonable terms. See Note 2—Visa Europe to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. If Visa Europe exercises the put option, we may encounter difficulties in integrating Visa Europe’s business and systems into our existing operations. If we cannot do so quickly and cost-effectively, the integration could divert the time and attention of senior management, disrupt our current operations and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we would become subject to the many regulations of the European Union that govern the operations of Visa Europe, including any regulatory disputes. We are required to record quarterly any change in the fair value of the put option. We record these adjustments through our consolidated statements of operations. Consequently, the adjustments affect our reported net income and earnings per share. These quarterly adjustments and their resulting impact on our reported statements of operations could be significant. The existence of these changes could adversely affect our ability to raise capital or the costs involved in raising it. If we cannot remain organizationally effective, we will be unable to address the opportunities and challenges presented by our strategy and by the increasingly challenging competitive, economic and regulatory environment. Since our reorganization in October 2007, we have increasingly centralized our management and operations. For us to succeed, we must effectively integrate our operations, actively work to ensure consistency throughout our organization, and incorporate a global perspective into our decisions and processes. If we fail to do so, we may be unable to expand as rapidly as we plan, and the results of our expansion may be unsatisfactory. In addition, the current competitive, economic and regulatory environment will require our organization to adapt rapidly and nimbly to new opportunities and challenges. We may not be able to do so if we do not make important decisions quickly enough, define our appetite for risk specifically enough, execute our strategy seamlessly enough, implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes efficiently enough and communicate roles and responsibilities clearly enough. We may be unable to attract and retain key management and other key employees. Our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success and difficult to replace. We may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms competitive with the rest of the market. Failure to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or failure to develop and implement a viable succession plan, could result in 33 Table of Contents inadequate depth of institutional knowledge or skill sets, adversely affecting our business. Our chief executive officer’s contract terminates in March 2013, and we cannot assure that there will be an effective transition to a new CEO when necessary. Acquisitions, strategic investments and entry into new businesses could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. Although we may continue to make strategic acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may be unable to successfully finance, partner with or integrate them. The integration of CyberSource, PlaySpan and Fundamo, all acquired recently, will take time and resources that would otherwise have been available for other acquisitions. We will be subject to the terms of the exclusive license granted to Visa Europe in most acquisitions and major investments that involve countries in the Visa Europe territory. Regulatory constraints, particularly competition regulations, may affect the extent to which we can maximize the value of acquisitions or investments. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition or investment may divert management’s time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. We may spend time and money on projects that do not increase our revenues. Moreover, our cash reserves contract to the extent we pay the purchase price of any acquisition or investment in cash. Although we periodically evaluate potential acquisitions of and investments in businesses, products and technologies, and anticipate continuing to make these evaluations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to execute and integrate any such acquisitions and investments. With the evolution of technology and the opening of new market segments, we may choose to participate in areas in which we have not engaged in the past, either through acquisition or through organic development. Relative inexperience in such businesses requires additional resources and presents an additional degree of risk, which could materially and adversely affect our operations and results. Future sales of our class A common stock, or the expiration or waiver of transfer restrictions on our class B stock, could result in dilution to holders of shares of our existing class A common stock, adversely affecting their rights and depressing the market price of our class A common stock. The market price and voting power of our class A common stock could decline because of increases in the number of such shares outstanding. The market price of our class A common stock may also suffer from the perception that such an increase could occur, such as upon the issuance or conversion of securities convertible to shares of our class A common stock. Specifically, upon the final resolution of our covered litigation, all class B stock will become transferable at once. If funds are released from escrow after the resolution of the litigation covered by our retrospective responsibility plan, the value of our class A common stock will be diluted. Under our retrospective responsibility plan, funds still in the escrow account after the resolution of all covered litigation will be released back to us. At that time, each share of class B common stock will become convertible into an increased number of shares of class A common stock, benefitting the holders of class B common stock. This in turn will result in dilution of the interest in Visa Inc. held by the holders of class A common stock. In this case, the amount of funds released and the market price of our class A common stock will determine the extent of the dilution. 34 Table of Contents Holders of our shares of our class B and C common stock have voting rights concerning certain significant corporate transactions, and their interests in our business may be different from those of holders of our class A common stock. Although their voting rights are limited, holders of shares of our class B and C common stock can vote on certain significant transactions. These include a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business and any other vote required by Delaware law. The holders of these shares may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class A common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with those of the holders of class A common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent entirely a takeover attempt or a change in control. Provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders consider favorable. For instance, except for limited exceptions, no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class A common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance. In addition, except for common stock issued to a member in connection with our reorganization or shares issuable on conversion of such common stock, shares held by a competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may not exceed 5% of our total outstanding shares on an as-converted basis. Our ability to pay regular dividends to holders of our common stock in the future is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will be limited by our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flows. Since August 2008, we have paid cash dividends quarterly on our class A, B and C common stock. Any future payment of dividends will depend upon our ability to generate earnings and cash flows. However, sufficient cash may not be available to pay such dividends. Payment of future dividends, if any, would be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, covenants in our debt instruments and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. If, because of these factors, we cannot generate sufficient earnings and cash flows from our business, we may be unable to make payments of dividends of our common stock. Furthermore, no dividend may be declared or paid on any class or series of common stock unless an equivalent dividend is contemporaneously declared and paid on each other class of common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 