Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business In the course of conducting our business operations, we are exposed to a variety of risks that are inherent to the alternative asset management business. A summary of some of the significant risks that have affected and could affect our competitive positioning, financial condition and results of operations is included below. Some of these risks are managed in accordance with the Company’s established risk management policies and procedures, which are described in “Item 1. Business—Overview—Portfolio Risk Management.” Our business was affected by the unprecedented conditions that impacted the United States and global economies and in the capital markets worldwide during 2008, where considerable volatility and lack of liquidity caused a simultaneous and substantial decline in the value of most asset classes globally. The combination of these disruptive factors adversely affected our ability to consistently generate non- volatile investment performance, and to retain and attract new assets under management, which negatively impacted our financial condition and results of operations. While market conditions stabilized during 2009, our investment performance, assets under management and financial results may be affected should global economic conditions remain weak or financial market conditions deteriorate. Conditions in the United States and global economies and in the capital markets worldwide deteriorated sharply in the second half of 2008, resulting in an unprecedented economic, financial and credit market crisis that resulted in significant market turbulence, a lack of liquidity and substantial, simultaneous declines in the value of most asset classes globally, coupled with a sharp erosion in investor confidence. Write-downs and capital-related issues across all industries resulted in the failures of multiple global financial institutions and other businesses, which have further negatively impacted the global economy. While the global financial system has stabilized, equity and credit market conditions have improved, and economic growth worldwide is positive but moderate, global market conditions are rapidly changing and remain extremely challenging. They are inherently outside of our control and cannot be predicted. Additional disruption and volatility in the U.S. and global economies and the capital markets worldwide could further impact our investment performance and ability to retain and attract new assets under management, and may result in additional redemptions from our funds that could be higher than what they have historically experienced. These factors may further reduce our revenues, Economic Income and the dividends we pay on our Class A Shares and may slow or reduce the long-term growth of our business. In particular, we may face the following heightened risks: Ÿ Our funds’ investment performance may be negatively impacted. Negative fund performance reduces assets under management, which decreases the management fees and incentive income we earn. Lower revenues result in lower Economic Income and therefore reduced dividends paid on our Class A Shares. Ÿ Incentive income, which historically has comprised a significant portion of our annual revenues, is contingent on our funds’ generating positive annual investment performance. Historically, most of our hedge funds had a one-year loss carry forward, or “high-water mark,” with respect to any year in which a fund experienced negative investment performance. As of January 1, 2010, all of our main hedge funds were changed to perpetual high-water marks meaning we will not be able to earn incentive income with respect to a fund investor’s investment in a fund in the years following negative investment performance until it surpasses the high-water mark. Generally, if a perpetual high-water mark is recouped during the year or years following the loss, the high-water mark is eliminated, thus allowing us to earn incentive income during the year in which the high-water mark is eliminated on net profits in excess of the high-water mark and in subsequent profitable years. However, if the high-water mark is not recouped, the resulting failure to earn incentive income would adversely impact our financial condition and operations, including our ability to make distributions on our equity. In addition, our real estate and certain other private funds are subject to clawback obligations generally measured as of the end of the life of a fund, in which we are required to repay amounts to a fund to the extent we have received excess incentive income distributions during the life of the fund relative to the aggregate performance of the fund. 19 Table of Contents Ÿ At the onset of the financial crisis, investors worldwide reduced or eliminated their investments in many asset classes and maximized their cash or equivalent holdings as confidence in the global financial system eroded significantly, with investors reacting to, individually or in some combination, reduced returns or losses on their capital investments, the lack of liquidity in the capital markets or a loss of confidence in the markets. These actions resulted in increased redemptions for the asset management industry worldwide, including hedge funds. In 2009, redemptions appeared to normalize to historical levels for the industry as a whole as market conditions improved and investor confidence increased. New capital flows are beginning to return to the industry, with the 2009 fourth quarter being the third consecutive quarter in which there was a net increase in capital. It may still take some time, however, for those inflows to become meaningful, as compared with levels seen prior to 2007, as institutional investors continue to assess how they will re-balance their portfolios and re-invest their capital. Moreover, our ability to attract new capital to our core funds or developing investment platforms may be limited until economic and market conditions improve. Ÿ Some hedge funds have reduced or may reduce their fees or revise their fee structure in an attempt to avoid additional redemptions, attract new capital or otherwise remain competitive, and there may be pressure by institutional investors to change fee structures, liquidity or lock-up terms. We may need to consider similar actions to remain competitive, which could reduce our revenues. Ÿ Our industry has been and may continue to be subject to increased regulation and public scrutiny. Such additional regulation could increase our compliance costs or limit our ability to pursue investment opportunities. Recent rulemaking by the SEC and other regulatory authorities outside the United States has imposed trading and reporting requirements on short selling, which could adversely affect trading opportunities, including hedging opportunities, for our funds and disclosure of our hedging strategies. Ÿ Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the solvency of, counterparties with which we execute transactions may increase our operational risks or transaction costs, which may result in lower investment performance by our funds. Ÿ A substantial portion of our compensation expense is in the form of annual bonuses to non-partner employees, which are variable and discretionary. In a typical year, the incentive income we earn funds a significant amount of the cash bonuses we pay. In any year in which we experience losses and do not earn incentive income, it may negatively affect bonuses in that year and in subsequent years until we recoup such losses. This may affect our ability to retain and attract investment professionals and other personnel. The market price of our Class A Shares has experienced significant volatility over the course of the financial crisis (including considerable depreciation in 2008) and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. In the event of a renewed deterioration in business conditions, our Board may determine to take actions for the longer-term benefit of the Company, such as reducing or temporarily eliminating dividends on our Class A Shares or dividend equivalents on RSUs. If the prevailing economic, market and business conditions continue or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operation. Difficult global market, economic and geopolitical conditions may adversely affect our business and cause significant volatility in equity and debt prices, interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices and credit spreads. These factors can materially adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the value or performance of the investments made by our funds and by reducing the ability of our funds to raise or deploy capital, each of which could materially reduce our revenues and cash flows and materially adversely affect our financial condition. Should economic and market conditions continue to be marked by uncertainty and high levels of volatility, our funds may not perform well and our funds may not be able to raise additional capital from fund investors. The success of our business is highly dependent upon conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world that are outside of our control and difficult to predict. Factors such as equity prices, equity market volatility, asset correlations, interest rates, counterparty risks, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws or regulation (including laws relating to taxation or regulation of the hedge fund industry), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls, and national and international 20 Table of Contents political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations) can have a material negative impact on the value of our funds’ portfolio investments or our general ability to conduct business, which in turn would reduce or even eliminate our revenues and profitability. Unpredictable or unstable market conditions have resulted and may in the future result in reduced opportunities to find suitable risk-adjusted investments to deploy capital and make it more difficult to exit and realize value from our existing investments, which could materially adversely affect our ability to raise new funds and increase our assets under management. In addition, during such periods, financing and merger and acquisition activity may be greatly reduced, making it harder and more competitive for asset managers to find suitable investment opportunities. Also, during periods of adverse economic conditions or during a tightening of global credit markets, we may have difficulty obtaining funding for additional investments at attractive rates, which would further reduce our profitability. If we fail to react appropriately to difficult market conditions, our funds could incur material losses. In recent years, several hedge funds and other sophisticated financial institutions have failed to properly assess or effectively mitigate their exposure to adverse conditions in the global financial markets. We could also suffer material adverse effects from these difficult market conditions, or other changes in market conditions or if we also fail to effectively mitigate our exposures. Our business and financial condition may be adversely impacted by the highly variable nature of our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. Because a substantial portion of our incentive income and incentive compensation expense is recorded in the fourth quarter each year, our quarterly results are not expected to be indicative of our results for a full year, which may increase the volatility of the price of our Class A Shares. Our revenues, results of operations and cash flows are all highly variable, primarily due to the fact that a substantial portion of our revenues historically have been and we expect will continue to be derived from incentive income from our funds, which is contingent on the funds’ annual investment performance. In addition, the investment return profiles of most of our funds can be volatile. We may also experience fluctuations in our results from quarter to quarter due to a number of other factors, including changes in the values of our funds’ investments, changes in the amount of distributions, dividends or interest paid in respect of investments, changes in our operating expenses, unexpected business developments and initiatives, the degree to which we encounter competition and general economic and market conditions, including but not limited to market volatility, declining asset values and lack of liquidity. Such variability and unpredictability may lead to volatility or declines in the trading price of our Class A Shares and cause our results for a particular period not to be indicative of our performance in a future period or particularly meaningful as a basis of comparison against results for a prior period. It may be difficult for us to achieve steady growth, or any growth at all, in revenues and cash flows, which could in turn lead to significant adverse movements in the price of our Class A Shares or increased volatility in our Class A Share price generally. The amount of incentive income generated by our funds is uncertain and will contribute to the volatility of our results. We do not record incentive income on our interim financial statements other than incentive income earned as a result of investor redemptions during the period. Accordingly, our interim results are not indicative of the results we expect for a full year. In addition, incentive income depends on our funds’ performance. We recognize revenues on investments in our funds based on our allocable share of realized and unrealized gains (or losses) reported by such funds, and a decline in realized or unrealized gains, or an increase in realized or unrealized losses, would materially adversely affect our revenues, which could further increase the volatility of our quarterly results. Our main funds have “perpetual high-water marks.” If a fund investor experiences losses in a given year, we will not be able to earn incentive income with respect to such investor’s investment in this fund in the following years until it surpasses the perpetual high-water mark. The incentive income we earn is therefore dependent on the net asset value of each fund investor’s investment in the fund, which could lead to significant volatility in our results. In addition, our real estate and certain other private funds are subject to clawback obligations generally measured as of the end of the life of a fund, in which we are required to repay amounts to a fund to the extent we have received 21 Table of Contents excess incentive income distributions during the life of the fund relative to the aggregate performance of the fund. See “—Risks Related to Our Business— Our business was affected by the unprecedented conditions that impacted the United States and global economies and in the capital markets worldwide during 2008, where considerable volatility and lack of liquidity caused a simultaneous and substantial decline in the value of most asset classes globally. The combination of these disruptive factors adversely affected our ability to consistently generate non-volatile investment performance, and to retain and attract new assets under management, which negatively impacted our financial condition and results of operations. While market conditions stabilized during 2009, our investment performance, assets under management and financial results may be affected should global economic conditions remain weak or financial market conditions deteriorate.” Competitive pressures in the asset management business could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The asset management business remains intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the quality of service provided to fund investors, brand recognition and business reputation. We compete for fund investors, investment professional talent and for investment opportunities with a number of hedge funds, private equity funds, specialized funds, traditional asset managers, commercial banks, investment banks and other financial institutions. A number of factors serve to increase our competitive risks: Ÿ a number of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and more personnel than we do; Ÿ several of our competitors have raised significant amounts of capital, and many of them have investment objectives that are similar to ours, which may create additional competition for investment opportunities and may reduce the size and duration of pricing inefficiencies that many alternative investment strategies seek to exploit; Ÿ some of our competitors have greater capital, lower targeted returns or greater sector or investment strategy specific expertise than we do, which creates competitive disadvantages with respect to certain investment opportunities; Ÿ some of our competitors may also have access to liquidity sources that are not available to us, which may create competitive disadvantages for us with respect to investment opportunities; Ÿ some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and to bid more aggressively than us for investments that we may want to make; and Ÿ other industry participants will from time to time seek to recruit our investment professionals and other employees away from us. We may lose investment opportunities in the future if we do not match investment fees, structures and terms offered by competitors. Alternatively, we may experience decreased rates of return and increased risks of loss if we match investment fees, structures and terms offered by competitors. In addition, changes in the global capital markets could diminish the attractiveness of our funds relative to investments in other investment products. This competitive pressure could materially adversely affect our ability to make successful investments and limit our ability to raise future funds, either of which would materially adversely impact our business, revenues, results of operations and cash flows. If our absolute returns and the volatility of those returns do not meet the expectations of the investors in our funds, it will be difficult for our funds to raise capital and for us to grow our business. In addition, the allocation of increasing amounts of capital to alternative investment strategies over the long term by institutional and individual investors may lead to a reduction in profitable investment opportunities, including by driving prices for investments higher and increasing the difficulty of achieving consistent, positive returns. Competition for investors is based on a variety of factors, including: Ÿ investment performance; 22 Table of Contents Ÿ investor perception of investment managers’ ability, drive, focus and alignment of interest with them; Ÿ investor perception of robustness of business infrastructure; Ÿ transparency with regards to portfolio composition; Ÿ investment and risk management processes; Ÿ quality of service provided to and duration of relationship with investors; Ÿ business reputation; and Ÿ level of fees and incentive income charged for services. If we are not able to successfully compete based on these and other factors, our assets under management, earnings and revenues may be reduced and our business may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, if we are forced to compete with other alternative asset managers on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current management fee and incentive income structures, which drive our revenues and earnings. We have historically competed for investors primarily on the investment performance of our funds, and not on the level of our fees or incentive income relative to those of our competitors. However, as the alternative asset management sector matures and addresses current market and competitive conditions, there is a risk that fees and incentive income will decline, without regard to the historical performance of a manager. Fee or incentive income reductions on existing or future funds, without corresponding increases in assets under management or decreases in our cost structure, could materially adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The terms of our credit agreement may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to certain changes or to take future actions. The credit agreement for OZ Management, OZ Advisors I, OZ Advisors II and certain of their subsidiaries (collectively, the “Och-Ziff Operating Group Credit Parties”) contains a number of restrictive covenants and requires amortization payments over the next few years, which collectively impose significant operating and financial restrictions on the Och-Ziff Operating Group Credit Parties, including restrictions that may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in their long-term best interests. The restrictions in the credit agreement include, among other things, limitations on the ability of the Och-Ziff Operating Group Credit Parties to: Ÿ incur additional indebtedness or issue disqualified equity interests; Ÿ create liens; Ÿ pay dividends or make other restricted payments; Ÿ merge, consolidate, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or any part of their assets; Ÿ engage in certain transactions with shareholders or affiliates; Ÿ engage in substantially different lines of business; and Ÿ amend their organizational documents in a manner materially adverse to the lenders. The credit agreement also contains a number of events that, if they occurred, would constitute an event of default under the agreement. A failure by any of the Och-Ziff Operating Group Credit Parties to comply with the covenants or amortization requirements—or upon the occurrence of other defaults or events of default—specified in the credit agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement, which would give the lenders under the agreement the right to declare all loans outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, the lenders would have the right to proceed against the collateral the Och-Ziff Operating Group Credit 23 Table of Contents Parties granted to them, which consists of substantially all the assets of the Och-Ziff Operating Group Credit Parties. If the debt under the credit agreement were to be accelerated, the Och-Ziff Operating Group Credit Parties may not have sufficient cash on hand or be able to sell sufficient collateral to repay this debt, which would have an immediate material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For more detail regarding the credit agreement, its terms and the current status of compliance with the agreement by the Och-Ziff Operating Group Credit Parties, please see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “—Debt Obligations”. Our business and financial condition may be adversely impacted by the loss of any of our key partners, particularly Daniel Och, Joel Frank, David Windreich, Michael Cohen, Zoltan Varga or Harold Kelly. The success of our business depends on the efforts, judgment and personal reputations of our key partners, particularly our founder, Daniel Och, and other members of our senior management team, including Joel Frank, David Windreich, Michael Cohen, Zoltan Varga and Harold Kelly. Our key partners’ reputations, expertise in investing and risk management, relationships with investors in our funds and third parties on whom our funds depend for investment opportunities and financing are each critical elements in operating and expanding our business. The loss of any of these individuals could harm our business and jeopardize our relationships with our fund investors and members of the business community. We believe our performance is highly correlated to the performance of these individuals. Accordingly, the retention of our key partners is crucial to our success, but none of them is obligated to remain actively involved with us. In addition, if any of our key partners were to join or form a competitor, some of our fund investors could choose to invest with that competitor rather than in our funds. The loss of the services of any of our key partners could have a material adverse effect on us, including our ability to retain and attract investors and raise new funds, and the performance of our funds. We do not carry any “key man” insurance that would provide us with proceeds in the event of the death or disability of any of our key partners. Our ability to retain our professionals is critical to our success and our ability to grow depends on our ability to attract additional partners, managing directors and investment professionals. Our most important asset is our employees, and our success is highly dependent upon the efforts of all of our partners, managing directors and investment professionals. Our future success and growth depend, among other factors, on our ability to retain and motivate our partners and other key personnel and to strategically recruit, retain and motivate new talent, including new partners, managing directors and investment professionals. We may not be successful in our efforts to recruit, retain and motivate the required personnel as the market for qualified investment professionals is extremely competitive. In order to recruit and retain existing and future partners, we will need to maintain a flexible compensation program, including the ability to make cash income allocations to them and issue equity or other interests in our business including, without limitation, Class C Non-Equity Interests, with respect to which the Chairman of our Partner Management Committee, a committee of seven of our partners (or, in the event there is no Chairman, the full Partner Management Committee by majority vote) in conjunction with the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors, will have the authority to declare distributions. To remain competitive in our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, our total compensation and benefits expense could increase at a level that may adversely affect our profitability, and our cash available for distribution to the holders of the equity interests in our business, including our Class A shareholders, could be reduced. In addition, any issuances of equity interests in our business to current or future personnel would dilute Class A shareholders. Our investment professionals possess substantial experience and expertise in investing, are responsible for locating and executing our funds’ investments, have significant relationships with the institutions that are the source of many of our funds’ investment opportunities, and in certain cases have strong relationships with our fund investors. Therefore, if our investment professionals join competitors or form competing companies it could result in the loss of significant investment opportunities and existing fund investor relationships. As a result, the loss of even a small number of our investment professionals could jeopardize the performance of our funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 24 Table of Contents The Och-Ziff Operating Group entities’ limited partnership agreements provide that the ownership interests held by our partners are subject to vesting and forfeiture conditions. The Class A restricted share units that have been awarded to our managing directors and other employees are subject to certain vesting requirements. Further, all of our partners and managing directors are subject to certain restrictions with respect to competing with us, soliciting our employees and fund investors and disclosing confidential information about our business. These requirements and restrictions, however, lapse over time, may not be enforceable in all cases and can be waived by us at any time. There is no guarantee that these requirements and agreements, or the forfeiture provisions of the Och-Ziff Operating Group entities’ limited partnership agreements or the agreements we have with our managing directors will prevent any of these professionals from leaving us, joining our competitors or otherwise competing with us. Any of these events could have a material adverse affect on our business. Each of our funds has special withdrawal provisions pursuant to which the failure of Daniel Och to be actively involved in the business provides investors with the right to redeem from the funds. The loss of the services of Daniel Och would have a material adverse effect on each of our funds and on us. Investors in each of our funds are generally given a one-time special redemption right (not subject to redemption fees) if Daniel Och dies or ceases to perform his duties with respect to the fund for 90 consecutive days or otherwise ceases to be involved in the activities of the Och-Ziff Operating Group. The death or inability of Mr. Och to perform his duties with respect to any of our funds for 90 consecutive days, or termination of Mr. Och’s involvement in the activities of the Och-Ziff Operating Group for any reason, could result in substantial redemption requests from investors in each of our funds. Any such event would have a direct material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings, and would likely harm our ability to maintain or grow assets under management in existing funds or raise additional funds in the future. Such withdrawals could lead possibly to a liquidation of our funds and a corresponding elimination of our management fees and potential to earn incentive income. The loss of Mr. Och could, therefore, ultimately result in a loss of substantially all of our revenues and earnings. We have experienced both rapid growth and significant recent declines in assets under management. These events place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources. Our assets under management grew from approximately $5.8 billion as of December 31, 2002 to $33.4 billion as of December 31, 2007. In 2008, our assets under management declined, particularly during the third and fourth quarters due to investment losses experienced by our funds, to $27.0 billion as of December 31, 2008, and further declined in 2009 to $23.1 billion as of December 31, 2009, primarily due to fund investor redemptions in the first half of 2009. Rapid changes in our assets under management can cause significant demands on our legal, accounting and operational infrastructure. The complexity of these demands, and the time and expense required to address them, is a function not simply of the amount by which our assets under management have changed, but of significant differences in the investing strategies employed within our funds. In addition, we are required to continuously develop our systems and infrastructure in response to the increasing sophistication of the investment management market and legal, accounting and regulatory developments. Our future growth will depend on, among other things, our ability to maintain an operating platform and management system sufficient to address significant changes in our assets under management and relevant market conditions. Addressing these matters may require us to incur significant additional expenses and to commit additional senior management and operational resources, even if we are experiencing declines in assets under management. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our operations effectively without incurring substantial additional expense or that we will be able to grow our business and assets under management, and any failure to do so could materially adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and control our expenses. 25 Table of Contents Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in losses or limit our operations and growth. We rely heavily on our financial, accounting, trading and other data processing systems to, among other things, execute, confirm, settle and record transactions across markets and geographies in a time-sensitive, efficient and accurate manner. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to our funds, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. In addition, we operate a business that is highly dependent on information systems and technology. Our information systems and technology may not be able to fully accommodate rapid, future growth in our operations. Furthermore, the cost of maintaining such systems may increase from its current level. Such a failure to accommodate our operational needs, or an increase in costs related to such information systems, could have a material adverse effect on us. We utilize our headquarters in New York City, where most of our personnel are located, for the continued operation of our business. We have taken precautions to limit the impact that a disruption to our New York headquarters could cause (for example, by ensuring our London office can operate independently of our other offices and establishing a “hot site” located in New Jersey, from which we could run our operations). Although these precautions have been taken, a disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business, including a disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, or directly affecting our headquarters, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. Our disaster recovery programs may not be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses, if at all. Finally, although we perform and back-up all key functions of our business, including portfolio valuation, internally, we rely on third-party service providers for certain aspects of our business, including certain information systems and technology and administration of our funds. Severe interruptions or deteriorations in the performance of these third parties or failures of their information systems and technology could impair the quality of the funds’ operations and could impact our reputation and hence materially adversely affect our business. We are subject to third-party litigation risk which could result in significant liabilities and reputational harm which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In general, we will be exposed to risk of litigation by our fund investors if our management of any fund is alleged to constitute negligence, dishonesty or bad faith. Investors could sue us to recover amounts lost by our funds due to our alleged misconduct, up to the entire amount of the loss. Furthermore, we may be subject to litigation arising from investor dissatisfaction with the performance of our funds or from allegations that we improperly exercised control or influence over companies in which our funds have large investments. In addition, we are exposed to risks of litigation or investigation relating to transactions which presented conflicts of interest that were not properly addressed. In such actions we would be obligated to bear legal, settlement and other costs, which may be in excess of any available insurance coverage. In addition, although we are indemnified by our funds, our rights to indemnification may be challenged. If we are required to incur all or a portion of the costs arising out of litigation or investigations as a result of inadequate insurance proceeds, if any, or fail to obtain indemnification from our funds, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity would be materially adversely affected. In our funds, we are exposed to the risk of litigation if the funds suffer catastrophic losses due to the failure of a particular investment strategy or due to the trading activity of an employee who has violated market rules or regulations. Any litigation arising in such circumstances is likely to be protracted, expensive and surrounded by circumstances which are materially damaging to our reputation and our business. In addition, we face the risk of litigation from investors in our funds if we violate restrictions in such funds’ organizational documents (for example, by failing to adhere to the limits we have to set on maximum exposure by a fund to a single investment). 26 Table of Contents Certain of our funds are incorporated or formed under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Cayman Islands laws, particularly with respect to shareholders rights, partner rights and bankruptcy, differ from the laws of the United States and could change, possibly to the detriment of our funds and investment management subsidiaries. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on the price of our Class A Shares. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules require our management to conduct annual assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and require a report by our independent registered public accounting firm, as well as an independent audit of our internal control over financial reporting. To comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have documented formal policies, processes and practices related to financial reporting. Such policies, processes and practices are important to ensure the identification of key financial reporting risks, assessment of their potential impact and linkage of those risks to specific areas and activities within our organization. If we fail for any reason to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to opine on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Any such event could adversely affect the price of our Class A Shares. Extensive regulation of our business affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. Our reputation, business and operations could be materially affected by regulatory issues. Our business is subject to extensive and complex regulation, including periodic examinations, by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. The SEC oversees our activities as a registered investment adviser under the Advisers Act. We are also subject to regulation under the Exchange Act and the Securities Act and various other statutes. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the Department of Labor under ERISA. In the United Kingdom, we are subject to regulation by the U.K. Financial Services Authority. Our Asian operations, and our investment activities around the globe, are subject to a variety of regulatory regimes that vary country by country, including the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong and the Securities and Exchange Board of India. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has the authority to grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on our business and to conduct investigations and administrative proceedings. Such investigations can result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including censure, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of an investment adviser from registration or memberships. For example, a failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Advisers Act, including record-keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, or a failure to maintain our funds’ exemption from compliance with the 1940 Act could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage. Our funds are involved regularly in trading activities that implicate a broad number of U.S. and foreign securities law regimes, including laws governing trading on inside information, market manipulation and a broad number of technical trading requirements that implicate fundamental market regulation policies. Even if an investigation or proceeding did not result in a sanction or the sanction imposed against us or our personnel by a regulator were small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity relating to the investigation, proceeding or imposition of these sanctions could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing investors or fail to gain new investors. Furthermore, the legal, technology and other costs associated with regulatory investigations could increase to such a level that they could have a material impact on our results. In addition, we regularly rely on exemptions from various requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and ERISA in conducting our asset management activities. These exemptions are sometimes highly complex and may 27 Table of Contents in certain circumstances depend on compliance by third parties whom we do not control. If for any reason these exemptions were to become unavailable to us, we could become subject to regulatory action or third-party claims and our business could be materially and adversely affected. See “—Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure—If we are deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our business would be subject to applicable restrictions under that Act, which could make it impracticable for us to continue our business as contemplated and would have a material adverse impact on the market price of our Class A Shares.” The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed primarily to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in our funds and are not designed to protect holders of our Class A Shares. At any time, the regulations applicable to us may be amended or expanded by the relevant regulatory authorities. If we are unable to correctly interpret and timely comply with any amended or expanded regulatory requirements, our business could be adversely impacted in a material way. Increased regulatory focus could result in additional burdens on our business. As a result of highly-publicized financial scandals in recent years, investors, regulators and the general public exhibited concerns over the integrity of both the U.S. financial markets and the regulatory oversight of these markets. As a result, the business environment in which we operate is subject to heightened regulation. With respect to alternative asset management funds, in recent years, there has been debate in both U.S. and foreign governments about new rules or regulations, including increased oversight or taxation. As calls for additional regulation have increased, there may be a related increase in regulatory investigations of the trading and other investment activities of alternative investment funds, including our funds. Such investigations may impose additional expenses on us, may require the attention of senior management and may result in fines if any of our funds are deemed to have violated any regulations. In addition, the financial industry will likely become more highly regulated in the near future in response to events of recent years, including market volatility and disruptions and the failure of sophisticated financial institutions to properly assess or effectively mitigate their exposure to market risks. Senior representatives of governmental regulatory agencies have commented about the perceived need for additional regulation of financial industry firms, particularly with regard to business practices, transparency and monitoring of trading positions, and protection of customer funds. The SEC recently adopted amendments to the Advisers Act rules increasing the compliance obligations of registered advisers with custody of client funds. Also, members of Congress have announced intentions to introduce legislation to require additional regulation, including requirements that credit default swaps and other derivatives be traded exclusively on regulated exchanges. Various non-U.S. governments have also expressed concern regarding the disruptive effects of speculative trading in the currency markets and the need to regulate the “derivatives” markets in general. The United States Commodities Futures Trading Commission has recently proposed to take over the function of setting speculative position limits for major regulated energy futures and options contracts and other listed instruments that track or emulate such contracts. Although certain potential regulatory changes are not yet known, such changes could have a meaningful impact on the financial industry. In January 2009, members of the Senate introduced the Hedge Fund Transparency Act (the “Hedge Fund Act”), which would apply to private investment vehicles with at least $50 million in assets under management. If enacted, the Hedge Fund Act would require that such funds—in order to remain exempt from the substantive provisions of the Investment Company Act—register with the SEC, maintain books and records in accordance with SEC requirements, and become subject to SEC examinations and information requests. In addition, the Hedge Fund Act would require each fund to file annual disclosures, which would be made public, containing detailed information about the fund, most notably including the names of all beneficial owners of the fund, an explanation of the fund’s ownership structure and the current value of the fund’s assets under management. Also, the Hedge Fund Act would require each fund to establish anti-money laundering programs. We cannot predict if the Hedge Fund Act will be enacted or, if enacted, what the final terms would require or the impact on our funds. If enacted, the Hedge Fund Act could negatively impact our funds in a number of ways, 28 Table of Contents including increasing the funds’ regulatory costs, imposing additional burdens on our employees, and potentially requiring the disclosure of sensitive information. In July 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation that would empower federal regulators to prescribe regulations to prohibit any incentive-based payment arrangements that the regulators determine encourage financial institutions to take risks that could threaten the soundness of the financial institutions or adversely affect economic conditions and financial stability. At this time, we cannot predict whether this legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, what form it would take, what affect, if any, that it may have on our business or the markets in which we operate. In December 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4213, the Tax Extenders Act of 2009. That proposed legislation contains a provision that, if enacted, would have the effect of treating income recognized from “carried interests” as ordinary income. While the proposed legislation, if enacted in its current form, would explicitly treat such income as nonqualifying income under the publicly traded partnership rules, thereby precluding us from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the proposed legislation provides for a 10-year transition period before such income would become nonqualifying income. In addition, the proposed legislation could, upon its enactment, prevent us from completing certain types of internal reorganization transactions on a tax free basis and acquiring other asset management companies on a tax free basis. The European Commission published the draft of a proposed European Union (the “EU”) Directive on Alternative Investment Fund Managers in April 2009 (revised in November 2009) (the “AIFM”). The directive, if adopted in the form proposed, would impose significant new regulatory requirements on investment managers operating within the EU, including with respect to conduct of business, regulatory capital, valuations, disclosures and marketing. The AIFM generally would require all managers managing or marketing funds in the EU to be authorized by the relevant national regulators. Alternative investment funds organized outside of the EU in which interests are marketed within the EU would be subject to significant conditions on their operations, including satisfying the competent authority of the robustness of internal arrangements with respect to risk management, in particular liquidity risks and additional operational and counterparty risks associated with short selling; the management and disclosure of conflicts of interest; the fair valuation of assets; and the security of depository/custodial arrangements. In addition, the AIFM would impose certain restrictions on the remuneration policies of authorized fund managers similar to those applicable to credit institutions. Such rules could potentially impose significant additional costs on the operation of our business in the EU and could limit our operating flexibility and our ability to raise capital within that jurisdiction. We may be adversely affected if new or revised legislation or regulations are enacted, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing rules and regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets and their participants. Such changes could place limitations on the type of investor that can invest in alternative asset funds or on the conditions under which such investors may invest. Further, such changes may limit the scope of investing activities that may be undertaken by alternative asset managers as well as their funds. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. Compliance with any new laws or regulations could be difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business, which could have adverse impacts on our results of operations. Our failure to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business. As we have expanded the scope of our business, we increasingly confront potential conflicts of interest relating to our funds’ investment activities. Certain of our funds have overlapping investment objectives and potential conflicts may arise with respect to our decisions regarding how to allocate investment opportunities among those funds. For example, a decision to acquire material non-public information about a company while pursuing an investment opportunity for a particular fund gives rise to a potential conflict of interest when it results in our having to restrict the ability of other funds to buy or sell securities in the public markets. In addition, investors (or holders of 29 Table of Contents Class A Shares) may perceive conflicts of interest regarding investment decisions for funds in which our partners, who have and may continue to make significant personal investments, are personally invested. It is possible that actual, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to investor dissatisfaction or litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest would have a material adverse effect on our reputation which would materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including an inability to raise additional funds and a reluctance of counterparties to do business with us. Employee misconduct could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain investors and subjecting us to significant legal liability, regulatory scrutiny and reputational harm. There is a risk that our partners, employees, joint venture partners or consultants could engage in misconduct that materially adversely affects our business. We are subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our asset management business and our authority over the assets we manage. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our partners or employees would materially adversely affect our investors and us. In addition, our business requires that we properly deal with confidential matters of great significance to companies in which we may invest. If our partners, employees, joint venture partners or consultants were improperly to use or disclose confidential information, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position and current and future business relationships. It is not always possible to detect or deter misconduct, and the extensive precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If one of our partners, employees, joint venture partners or consultants were to engage in misconduct or were to be accused of such misconduct, our business and our reputation could be materially adversely affected. We may enter into new businesses, make future strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into joint ventures, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We intend, to the extent that market conditions warrant, to grow our business by increasing assets under management and creating new investment platforms and businesses. Accordingly, we may pursue growth through strategic investments, acquisitions or joint ventures, which may include entering into new lines of business, such as the broker-dealer or financial advisory industries. In addition, we expect opportunities will arise to acquire, or enter into joint ventures with, other alternative or traditional asset managers. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, enter into joint ventures, or enter into a new line of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with (i) the required investment of capital and other resources, (ii) the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk, (iii) combining or integrating operational and management systems and controls, and (iv) loss of investors in our fund due to the perception that we are no longer focusing on our core fund management duties. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. If a new business generates insufficient revenues or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations will be materially adversely affected. In the case of joint ventures, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. We may use substantial amounts of borrowings to finance our business, which will expose us to substantial risks. In connection with the IPO and Reorganization, we entered into a term loan that was used to purchase interests in our real estate business and to make distributions to our founding owners. Depending on the facts and circumstances, we may eventually use a significant amount of additional borrowings to finance our business operations or growth. This will expose us to the typical risks associated with the use of substantial borrowings, including those discussed below under “—Risks Related to Our Funds— Our funds may determine to use leverage in 30 Table of Contents investments, which could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve positive rates of return on those investments.” These risks could be exacerbated by the use of leverage by our funds to finance investments to enhance investment returns. In addition, as our long-term unsecured debt and committed secured credit facilities expire, or if our lenders fail, we will need to replace them by entering into new facilities or finding other sources of liquidity, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so on attractive terms or at all, particularly in a liquidity or other market crisis. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a further discussion of our liquidity. An increase in our borrowing costs may adversely affect our earnings and liquidity. Our term loan will mature in July 2012, at which time we will be required to either refinance it by entering into new facilities, which could result in higher borrowing costs, or issuing equity, which would dilute existing shareholders. We could also repurchase or repay the term loan by using cash on hand or cash from the sale of our assets, which would reduce amounts available for distribution to our Class A shareholders. No assurance can be given that we will be able to enter into new facilities or issue equity in the future on attractive terms, or at all. Our term loan is a LIBOR-based floating-rate obligation and the interest expense we incur varies with changes in the applicable LIBOR reference rate. See “Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk,” for additional information regarding the impact that a change in LIBOR would have on our annual interest expense associated with this term loan. We also hold a note payable on our corporate aircraft in the amount of $16.8 million, the principal balance of which is due at maturity on May 31, 2011. The note bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.35%. The terms of the note require us to comply with certain covenants relating to minimum assets under management and Economic Income, among other items. We may determine to repurchase or pre-pay some or all of the note or renegotiate the terms and conditions of the note. No assurance can be given that any refinancing would be available in the future on attractive terms. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information regarding the aircraft loan. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future to finance our operations. An increase in interest rates would adversely affect the market value of any fixed-rate debt investments and/or subject them to prepayment or extension risk, which may adversely affect our earnings and liquidity. Our business and growth strategy depends in large part upon our ability to raise capital from third party investors. If we are unable to raise capital from third party investors, we would be unable to grow management fees or deploy additional capital into investments and potentially collect incentive income on those investments, which would materially impact the growth in our revenues, earnings and cash flows. Our ability to raise capital from third party investors depends on a number of factors, including certain factors that are outside our control. Certain factors, such as the performance of the equity markets globally, could inhibit or restrict the ability of third party investors to make investments in our investment funds or the asset classes in which our investment funds invest. For example, during 2008 a large number of third party investors who have historically invested in our investment funds experienced negative pressure across their investment portfolios, which affected our ability to raise capital from them. As a result of the significant economic downturn during 2008 and the first two months of 2009, these third-party investors experienced, among other things, a significant decline in the value of their public equity and debt holdings and a lack of realizations from their existing private equity portfolios. To the extent economic conditions remain negative and these issues persist, we may be unable to raise sufficient amounts of capital to support the investment activities of future funds. Moreover, as we seek to expand into other asset classes, we may be unable to raise a sufficient amount of capital to adequately support such businesses. If we are unable to successfully raise additional capital, it could constrain the long-term growth in our revenues and cash flows. In addition, in connection with raising new funds or making further investments in existing funds, we have confronted and expect to continue to confront investor requests to decrease fees, which could result in a reduction in the management fees and incentive income we earn. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Funds Our results of operations are dependent on the performance of our funds. Poor fund performance will result in reduced revenues and earnings. Poor performance of our funds will make it difficult for us to retain or attract investors to our funds and to grow our business. The performance of each fund we manage is subject to some or all of the following risks. Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our funds in many ways, including by negatively impacting the performance of our funds and reducing the ability of our funds to raise or deploy capital, which could materially reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. Additional disruption and volatility in the global financial markets and economies could cause our funds to not perform well. Additionally, we may not be able to raise capital for existing or new funds during periods of market instability. Our funds are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world. The global market and economic climate may remain uncertain because of many factors beyond our control, including but not limited to rising interest rates, inflation or deflation, the availability of credit and performance of financial markets, terrorism or political uncertainty, and the uncertain impact of recent monetary and fiscal stimulus actions taken on the parts of governments worldwide. A general market downturn, a specific market dislocation, or deteriorating economic conditions may cause our revenues and results of operations to decline by causing: Ÿ a decline in assets under management, resulting in lower management fees and incentive income; Ÿ an increase in the cost of financial instruments; Ÿ lower investment returns, thereby reducing incentive income; Ÿ reduced demand for assets held by our funds, which would negatively affect the funds’ ability to realize value from such assets; and Ÿ continued investor redemptions, resulting in lower fees and potential increased difficulty in raising new capital. Furthermore, while difficult market and economic conditions and other factors may increase investment opportunities over the long term, including with respect to the competitive landscape for the hedge fund industry, such conditions and factors also increase the risk of increased investment losses and additional regulation, which may impair our business model and operations. Our funds may also be adversely affected by difficult market conditions if our investment professionals fail to assess the adverse effect of such conditions on particular investments, resulting in a significant reduction in the value of those investments. Moreover, challenging market conditions may prompt certain hedge funds to reduce the management fee and incentive income rates they charge. In response to competitive pressures or for any other reason, we may reduce or change the fee structures of our funds, which could reduce the amount of fees and income that we may earn relative to assets under management. The historical returns attributable to our funds should not be considered as indicative of the future results of our funds or of our future results or of any returns expected on an investment in our Class A Shares. We have presented in this annual report under “Item 1. Business—Overview—Investment Performance” and elsewhere the net composite returns relating to the historical performance of our most significant funds, and we have also referred to other metrics associated with historical returns, such as risk and correlation measures. The returns are relevant to us primarily insofar as they are indicative of incentive income we have earned in prior years. Neither the historical nor the potential future returns of our funds are indicative of or expected to be indicative of returns on our Class A Shares; therefore, you should not conclude that positive performance of our funds will result in positive returns on an investment in Class A Shares. Poor performance of our funds, however, would cause a decline in our revenues, and would therefore have a negative effect on our performance and the returns on an investment in our Class A Shares. An investment in our Class A Shares is not an investment in any of the Och-Ziff funds. 32 Table of Contents Moreover, with respect to the historical returns of our funds: Ÿ the historical returns of our funds should not be considered indicative of the future results that should be expected from such funds or from any future funds we may raise; Ÿ our funds’ returns prior to December 31, 2007 and in the year ended December 31, 2009 benefited from investment opportunities and general market conditions that may not repeat themselves, and there can be no assurance that our current or future funds will be able to avail themselves of profitable investment opportunities; and Ÿ the rates of return reflect our historical expenses, which may vary in the future due to factors beyond our control, including changes in law. Recent market and economic conditions, as well as widely publicized scandals involving certain financial institutions, have had an adverse impact on the hedge fund industry. The industry experienced significant losses in assets under management during 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 and it may not be able to recoup these losses or achieve historical growth rates, even if market and economic conditions continue to ease. Our business may be adversely impacted by negative trends impacting the hedge fund industry as a whole, even if our business operations and infrastructure and fund performance can be positively differentiated from other hedge fund industry participants. We are subject to counterparty default risks. Our funds enter into numerous types of financial arrangements with a wide array of counterparties around the world, including: loans, swaps, repurchase agreements, securities lending agreements and other derivative and non-derivative contracts. The terms of these contracts are often customized and complex and these arrangements may occur in markets or relate to products that are not currently subject to regulatory oversight. In particular, some of our funds utilize prime brokerage arrangements with a relatively limited number of counterparties, which has the effect of concentrating the transaction volume (and related counterparty default risk) of these funds with these counterparties. Our funds are subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these contracts defaults, either voluntarily or involuntarily, on its performance under the contract. Any such default may occur rapidly and without prior notice to us. Moreover, if a counterparty defaults, we may be unable to take action to recover our assets or any amounts due to us, either because we lack the contractual ability or because market conditions make it difficult to take effective action. This inability could occur at any time, but particularly in times of market stress, which are precisely the times when defaults may be most likely to occur. In addition, our risk-management assessments may not accurately anticipate the impact of market stress or counterparty financial condition and, as a result, we may not take sufficient action to reduce our risks effectively. Although each of our funds regularly monitors its credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect, foresee or evaluate. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one large participant could lead to significant liquidity problems for other participants, which may in turn expose us to significant losses. In the event of a counterparty default, particularly a default by a major commercial bank or other financial institution, one or more of our funds could incur material losses, and the resulting market impact of a major counterparty default could harm our business, results of operation and financial condition. In the event that one of our counterparties becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability to eventually recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterparty’s default may be limited by the liquidity of the counterparty or the applicable legal regime governing the bankruptcy proceeding. The counterparty risks that we face have increased in complexity and magnitude as a result of the recent financial crisis and resulting impairment or insolvency of a number of major financial institutions that serve as counterparties for derivative contracts and other financial instruments with our funds. The consolidation or elimination of counterparties may also result in concentration of counterparty risk. In addition, counterparties have generally reacted to the ongoing market volatility by tightening their underwriting standards and increasing their margin requirements for all categories of financing, which has the result of decreasing the overall amount of leverage available to our funds and increasing the costs of borrowing. 33 Table of Contents Poor performance of our funds would cause a decline in our revenues, results of operations and cash flows and could materially adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. If our funds perform poorly, our revenues, results of operations and cash flows decline because the value of our assets under management decreases, which in turn results in a reduction in management fees. An annual decrease in our investment returns would result in a reduction in incentive income and, if such decrease was substantial, could result in the elimination of incentive income for a given year and future years until that decrease has been surpassed by positive performance. Poor performance of our funds makes it more difficult for us to raise new capital and may cause investors in our funds to redeem their investments. Investors and potential investors in our funds continually assess our funds’ performance, and our ability to raise capital for existing and future funds. Our ability to avoid excessive redemption levels will depend on our funds’ continued satisfactory performance. Moreover, poor performance may cause us to reduce or change the fee structure of our funds, which may reduce the amounts of management fees and incentive income that we may earn relative to assets under management. Our funds may determine to use leverage in investments, which could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve positive rates of return on those investments. Our funds may choose to use leverage as part of their respective investment programs, although historically they have not borrowed substantial capital either directly or through the use of derivative instruments. The use of leverage poses a significant degree of risk and enhances the possibility of a significant loss in the value of the investments in our funds. Our funds may borrow money from time to time to purchase or carry securities. The interest expense and other costs incurred in connection with such borrowing may not be recovered by appreciation in the securities purchased or carried, and will be lost—and the timing and magnitude of such losses may be accelerated or exacerbated—in the event of a decline in the market value of such securities. Volatility in the credit markets increases the degree of risk associated with such borrowing. Gains realized with borrowed funds may cause a fund’s net asset value to increase at a faster rate than would be the case without borrowings. If investment results fail to cover the cost of borrowings, the fund’s net asset value could also decrease faster than if there had been no borrowings. Increases in interest rates could also decrease the value of fixed-rate debt investments that our funds make. To the extent our funds determine to significantly increase their use of leverage, any of the foregoing circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, if our funds determine to use leverage, there is no assurance that such leverage would be available, or be available on favorable terms. If third-party investors in our funds exercise their right to remove us as investment manager or general partner of the funds, we would lose the assets under management in such funds which would eliminate our management fees and incentive income derived from such funds. The governing agreements of most of our funds provide that, subject to certain conditions, third-party investors in those funds have the right, without cause, to vote to remove us as investment manager or general partner of the fund by a simple majority vote, resulting in the elimination of management fees and incentive income derived from those funds. In addition to having a significant negative impact on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows, the occurrence of such an event with respect to any of our funds would likely result in significant reputational damage to us. Investors in our funds have the right to redeem their investments in our funds on a regular basis and could redeem a significant amount of assets under management during any given quarterly period, which would result in significantly decreased revenues. Investors in our funds may generally redeem their investments in our funds (subject to the applicable fund’s specific redemption provisions) on an annual or quarterly basis following the expiration of a specified period of time, when capital may not be redeemed (typically between five and twelve fiscal quarters), although investors who have quarterly redemption rights generally may redeem capital during such specified period upon the payment of a redemption fee and upon giving 30 days prior written notice. In a declining market, the pace of redemptions and consequent reduction in our assets under management could accelerate. The decrease in revenues that would result 34 Table of Contents from significant redemptions in our funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, result of operations and cash flows. From January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009, investors redeemed approximately $9.9 billion from our funds. Unless market and economic conditions continue to ease and investors regain confidence in the financial markets and investing, we may once again experience significant redemptions. Furthermore, investors in our funds may also be investors in funds managed by other alternative asset managers that have restricted or suspended redemptions or may in the future do so. Such investors may redeem capital from our funds, even if our performance is superior. The due diligence process that we undertake in connection with investments by our funds may not reveal all facts that may be relevant in connection with making an investment. Before investments are made by our funds, particularly investments in securities that are not publicly-traded, we conduct due diligence that we deem reasonable and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances applicable to each investment. When conducting due diligence, we may be required to evaluate important and complex business, financial, tax, accounting, environmental and legal issues. Outside consultants, legal advisors, accountants and investment bankers may be involved in the due diligence process in varying degrees depending on the type of investment. Nevertheless, when conducting due diligence and making an assessment regarding an investment, we rely on the resources available to us, including information provided by the target of the investment and, in some circumstances, third-party investigations. The due diligence that we carry out with respect to any investment opportunity may not reveal or highlight all relevant facts that may be necessary or helpful in evaluating such investment opportunity, and such an evaluation will not necessarily result in the investment being successful. Moreover, the level of due diligence conducted with respect to a particular investment will vary and may not properly assess the appropriate amount of diligence for each investment, which may result in losses. Our funds may invest in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets, and we may fail to realize any profits from these activities for a considerable period of time or lose some or all of our principal investments. Our funds invest in securities that are not publicly-traded. In many cases, our funds may be prohibited by contract or by applicable securities laws from selling such securities for a period of time. Our funds will generally not be able to sell these securities publicly unless their sale is registered under applicable securities laws, or unless an exemption from such registration is available. The ability of many of our funds to dispose of such investments is heavily dependent on the public equity markets. Even if the securities are publicly-traded, large holdings of securities can often be disposed of only over a substantial length of time, exposing the investment returns to risks of downward movement in market prices during the required holding period. Accordingly, under certain conditions, our funds may be forced to either sell securities at lower prices than they had expected to realize or defer, potentially for a considerable period of time, sales that they had planned to make. Contributing capital to these investments is risky, and our funds may lose some or all of the principal amount of such investments. Valuation methodologies for certain assets in our funds can be subject to significant subjectivity and the values of assets established pursuant to such methodologies may never be realized, which could result in significant losses for our funds. There are no readily ascertainable market prices for a large number of the illiquid investments held by our funds. The fair value of the investments of our funds is determined periodically by us using a number of methodologies. These methodologies are based on a number of factors, including the nature of the investment, the expected cash flows from the investment, bid or ask prices provided by third parties for the investment, the length of time the investment has been held, the trading price of securities (in the case of publicly-traded securities), restrictions on transfer and other recognized valuation methodologies. The methodologies we use in valuing individual investments are based on a variety of estimates and assumptions specific to the particular investments, and actual results related to the investment may vary materially as a result of the inaccuracy of such assumptions or estimates. These valuation methodologies can involve a significant degree of management judgment. In addition, because the illiquid investments held by our funds may be in industries or sectors which are unstable, in distress, or undergoing some uncertainty, such investments are subject to rapid changes in value caused by sudden company-specific or industry-specific developments. 35 Table of Contents Because valuations, and in particular valuations of investments for which market quotations are not readily available, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have resulted if a ready market had existed. Even if market quotations are available for our investments, such quotations may not reflect the value that could actually be realized because of various factors, including the possible illiquidity associated with a large ownership position, subsequent illiquidity in the market for a company’s securities, future market price volatility or the potential for a future loss in market value based on poor industry conditions on the market’s view of overall company and management performance. Because there is significant uncertainty in the valuation of or in the stability of the value of illiquid investments, the fair values of such investments as reflected in a fund’s net asset value do not necessarily reflect the prices that could actually be obtained when such investments are sold. Realizations at values significantly lower than the values at which investments have been reflected in fund net asset values would result in losses for the applicable fund, a decline in management fees and the loss of potential incentive income. Also, a situation where asset values turn out to be materially different from values reflected in fund net asset values may cause investors to lose confidence in us which could, in turn, result in redemptions from our funds or difficulties in our ability to raise additional capital. Our funds make investments in companies that we do not control, exposing us to the risk of decisions made by others with which we may not agree. Investments by our funds will include investments in debt or equity of companies that we do not control. Such investments may be acquired by our funds through trading activities or through purchases of securities from the issuer. Those investments will be subject to the risk that the company in which the investment is made may make business, financial or management decisions with which we do not agree or that the majority stakeholders or the management of the company may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve our interests. In addition, we may make investments in which we share control over the investment with co-investors, which may make it more difficult for us to implement our investment approach or exit the investment when we otherwise would. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the values of investments by our funds could decrease and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could suffer as a result. Our funds make investments in companies that are based outside of the United States, exposing us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in companies that are based in the United States. All of our funds generally invest a significant portion of their assets in the equity, debt, loans or other securities of issuers located outside the United States. Investments in non-U.S. securities involve certain factors not typically associated with investing in U.S. securities, including risks relating to: Ÿ currency exchange matters, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates and costs associated with conversion of investment principal and income from one currency into another; Ÿ less developed or efficient financial markets than in the United States, which may lead to potential price volatility and relative illiquidity; Ÿ the absence of uniform accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards, practices and disclosure requirements and less government supervision and regulation; Ÿ differences in the legal and regulatory environment, including less-developed bankruptcy laws; Ÿ fewer investor protections and less stringent requirements relating to fiduciary duties; Ÿ difficulties in enforcing contracts and filing claims under foreign legal systems; Ÿ less publicly available information in respect of companies in non-U.S. markets; Ÿ certain economic and political risks, including potential exchange control regulations and restrictions on our non-U.S. investments and repatriation of profits on investments or of capital invested, the risks of political, economic or social instability, the possibility of expropriation or confiscatory taxation and adverse economic and political developments; and 36 Table of Contents Ÿ the possible imposition of non-U.S. taxes or withholding on income and gains recognized with respect to such securities. There can be no assurance that adverse developments with respect to such risks will not materially adversely affect our funds’ investments that are held in certain countries or the returns from these investments. Risk management activities may materially adversely affect the return on our funds’ investments. When managing our funds’ exposure to market risks, the relevant fund (or one of our affiliates on behalf of the funds) may from time to time use forward contracts, options, swaps, caps, collars and floors or pursue other strategies or use other forms of derivative instruments to limit its exposure to changes in the relative values of investments that may result from market developments, including changes in prevailing interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. The success of any hedging or other derivative transactions generally will depend on our ability to correctly predict market changes, the degree of correlation between price movements of a derivative instrument, the position being hedged, and the creditworthiness of the counterparty and other factors. As a result, while we may enter into a transaction in order to reduce our exposure to market risks, the transaction may result in poorer overall investment performance than if it had not been executed. Such transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the value of a hedged position increases. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in connection with hedging activities and price movements in a position being hedged may vary. For a variety of reasons, we may not seek or be successful in establishing a perfect correlation between the instruments used in a hedging or other derivative transaction and the position being hedged. An imperfect correlation could prevent us from achieving the intended result and could give rise to a loss. Also, it may not be possible to fully or perfectly limit our exposure against all changes in the value of our investment because the value of investments is likely to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, some of which will be beyond our control or ability to hedge. Certain of our investments may be concentrated in certain asset types or in a geographic region, which could exacerbate any negative performance of those funds to the extent those concentrated investments perform poorly. The governing agreements of our funds generally contain only limited investment restrictions and only limited requirements as to diversification of fund investments, either by geographic region or asset type. During periods of difficult market conditions or slowdowns in these regions, any decrease in revenues and difficulty in obtaining access to financing may be exacerbated by any concentration of investments, which would result in lower investment returns for our funds. Most of our funds utilize distressed debt and long/short equity special situations investment strategies which involve significant risks and potential additional liabilities. Most of our funds invest a portion of their assets in issuers with weak financial conditions, poor operating results, substantial financial needs, negative net worth and/or special competitive problems. These funds may also invest in issuers that are involved in bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings. In such situations, it may be difficult to obtain full information as to the exact financial and operating conditions of these issuers. Furthermore, some of our funds’ distressed investments may not be widely traded or may have no recognized market. Depending on the specific fund’s investment profile, a fund’s exposure to such investments may be substantial in relation to the market for those investments and the acquired assets are likely to be illiquid and difficult to sell or transfer. As a result, it may take a number of years for the fair value of such investments to ultimately reflect their intrinsic value as perceived by us. A central strategy of our long/short equity special situations investing is to assess the occurrence of certain corporate events, such as debt and/or equity offerings, reorganizations, mergers, takeover offers and other transactions. If we do not accurately predict these events, the market price and value of our funds’ investment could decline sharply. In addition, these investments could subject our funds to certain potential additional liabilities that may exceed the value of their original investments. Under certain circumstances, payments or distributions on certain investments 37 Table of Contents may be reclaimed if any such payment or distribution is later determined to have been a fraudulent conveyance, a preferential payment or similar transaction under applicable bankruptcy and insolvency laws. In addition, under certain circumstances, an investor that has inappropriately exercised control of the management and policies of a debtor may have its claims subordinated or disallowed, or may be found liable for damages suffered by parties as a result of such actions. In the case where the investment in securities of troubled companies is made in connection with an attempt to influence a restructuring proposal or plan of reorganization in bankruptcy, our funds may become involved in substantial litigation. If our risk management systems are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses. We continue to refine our risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods. Our risk management techniques and strategies, however, may not fully mitigate the risk exposure of our funds in all economic or market environments, or against all types of risk, including risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate. Some of our strategies for anticipating and managing risk in our funds are based upon our use of historical market behavior statistics. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to measure and analyze the risks to which our funds are exposed. Any failures in our risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify such risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks in the funds or to seek positive, risk-adjusted returns. In addition, any risk management failures could cause fund losses to be significantly greater than the historical measures predict. Furthermore, our mathematical modeling does not take all risks into account. Our more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. See “Item 1. Business—Overview—Portfolio Risk Management.” Our funds’ investments are subject to numerous additional risks. Our funds’ investments are subject to numerous additional risks, including the following: Ÿ The funds may engage in short selling, which is subject to the theoretically unlimited risk of loss because there is no limit on how much the price of a security may appreciate before the short position is closed out. A fund may be subject to losses if a security lender demands return of the lent securities and an alternative lending source cannot be found or if the fund is otherwise unable to borrow securities that are necessary to hedge its positions; Ÿ Our funds may be limited in their ability to engage in short selling or other activities as a result of regulatory mandates. Such regulatory actions may limit our ability to engage in hedging activities and therefore impair our investment strategies; Ÿ Credit risk may be exacerbated by a default by any one of several large institutions that are dependent on one another to meet their liquidity or operational needs, so that a default by one institution causes a series of defaults by the other institutions. This “systemic risk” could have a further material adverse effect on the financial intermediaries (such as prime brokers, clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges) with which the funds transact on a daily basis. Although the U.S. government, including the U.S. Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve, has taken significant actions to prevent a systemic collapse, no assurance can be given that such actions to date will be sufficient or successful in all cases; Ÿ The effectiveness of investment and trading strategies depends largely on the ability to establish and maintain an overall market position in a combination of financial instruments. A fund’s trading orders may not be executed in a timely and efficient manner due to various circumstances, including systems failures or human error. In such event, the funds might only be able to acquire some but not all of the components of the position, or if the overall position were to need adjustment, the funds might not be able to make such adjustment. As a result, the funds would not be able to achieve the market position selected by the investment manager or general partner of such funds, and might incur a loss in liquidating their position; Ÿ Fund investments are subject to risks relating to investments in commodities, futures, options and other derivatives, the prices of which are highly volatile and may be subject to the theoretically unlimited risk of loss in certain circumstances, including if the fund writes a call option. Price movements of commodities, 38 Table of Contents futures and options contracts and payments pursuant to swap agreements are influenced by, among other things, interest rates; changing supply and demand relationships; trade, fiscal, monetary and exchange control programs and policies of governments and national and international political and economic events and policies. The value of futures, options and swap agreements also depends upon the price of the securities underlying them. In addition, the funds’ assets are subject to the risk of the failure of any of the exchanges on which their positions trade or of their clearinghouses or counterparties. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Control by Mr. Och of the combined voting power of our shares could cause or prevent us from engaging in certain transactions, which could adversely affect the market price of the Class A Shares or deprive our Class A shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium as part of a sale of our Company. As of December 31, 2009, our partners control approximately 77.7% of the combined voting power of our Class A Shares and Class B Shares through their ownership of 100% of our Class B Shares and Mr. Och’s ownership of 1,606,600 Class A Shares purchased on the open market. Each of our partners that owns Class B Shares has granted to the Class B Shareholder Committee, the sole member of which is currently our founder, Mr. Och, an irrevocable proxy to vote all of their shares as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion. This proxy will terminate upon the later of (i) Mr. Och’s withdrawal, death or disability, or (ii) such time as our partners hold less than 40% of our total combined voting power. Accordingly, Mr. Och currently has the ability to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors and thereby control our management and affairs. In addition, he currently is able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our Company or a change in the composition of our Board of Directors, and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our Company. The control of voting power by Mr. Och could deprive Class A shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A Shares as part of a sale of our Company, and might ultimately affect the market price of the Class A Shares. Upon Mr. Och’s withdrawal, death or disability, the Class B Shareholder Committee will consist of either (i) the remaining members of the Partner Management Committee, who shall act by majority vote in such capacity, or (ii) a partner elected by majority vote of the remaining members of the Partner Management Committee to serve as the sole member of the Class B Shareholder Committee. In addition, the shareholders’ agreement among us and our partners, in their capacity as the Class B shareholders, provides the Class B Shareholder Committee, so long as our partners and their permitted transferees continue to hold more than 40% of the total combined voting power of our outstanding Class A Shares and Class B Shares, with approval rights over a variety of significant Board actions, including: Ÿ any incurrence of indebtedness, other than intercompany indebtedness, in one transaction or a series of related transactions, by us or any of our subsidiaries or controlled affiliates in an amount in excess of approximately 10% of the then existing long-term indebtedness of us and our subsidiaries; Ÿ any issuance by us or any of our subsidiaries or controlled affiliates, in any transaction or series of related transactions, of equity or equity-related shares which would represent, after such issuance, or upon conversion, exchange or exercise, as the case may be, at least 10% of the total combined voting power of our outstanding Class A Shares and Class B Shares other than (i) pursuant to transactions solely among us and our wholly-owned subsidiaries, (ii) upon issuances of securities pursuant to the Plan, (iii) upon the exchange by our partners of Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units for our Class A Shares pursuant to the exchange agreement or (iv) upon conversion of any convertible securities or upon exercise of warrants or options, which convertible securities, warrants or options may be issued and are either outstanding on the date of, or issued in compliance with, the shareholders’ agreement; Ÿ any equity or debt commitment or investment or series of related equity or debt commitments or investments by us or any of our subsidiaries or controlled affiliates in an unaffiliated entity or related group of entities in an amount greater than $250 million; Ÿ any entry by us, any subsidiary or controlled affiliate into a new line of business that does not involve investment management and that requires a principal investment in excess of $100 million; 39 Table of Contents Ÿ the adoption of a shareholder rights plan; Ÿ any appointment or removal of a chief executive officer or co-chief executive officer; or Ÿ the termination of the employment of an executive officer or the active involvement of a partner with us or any of our subsidiaries or controlled affiliates without cause. In addition, our operating agreement requires that we obtain the consent of the Class B Shareholder Committee for specified actions primarily relating to our structure so long as any Class B Shares are outstanding. Our structure is intended to ensure that we maintain exchangeability of Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units for Class A Shares on a one-for-one basis. Accordingly, the Class B Shareholder Committee will have the right to approve or consent to actions that could result in an economic disparity between holders of our Class A Shares and other classes of equity, such as the issuance of certain securities, making certain capital contributions, owning or disposing of certain assets, incurring certain indebtedness and conducting business outside of the Och-Ziff Operating Group. Our operating agreement contains provisions that reduce fiduciary duties of our directors and officers with respect to potential conflicts of interest against such individuals and limit remedies available to our Class A shareholders against such individuals for actions that might otherwise constitute a breach of duty. Our operating agreement provides that in the event a potential conflict of interest exists or arises between any of our partners, our officers, our directors or their respective affiliates, on the one hand, and us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders, on the other hand, a resolution or course of action by our Board of Directors shall be deemed approved by all of our shareholders, and shall not constitute a breach of the fiduciary duties of members of the Board to us or our shareholders, if such resolution or course of action is (i) approved by our Nominating, Corporate Governance and Conflicts Committee, which is composed of independent directors, (ii) approved by shareholders holding a majority of our shares that are disinterested parties, (iii) on terms no less favorable than those generally provided to or available from unrelated third parties, or (iv) fair and reasonable to us. Accordingly, if such a resolution or course of action is approved by our Nominating, Corporate Governance and Conflicts Committee or otherwise meets one or more of the above criteria, shareholders will not be able to successfully assert a claim that such resolution or course of action constituted a breach of fiduciary duties owed to our shareholders by our officers, directors and their respective affiliates. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, which we refer to as the “DGCL,” in contrast, a corporation is not permitted to automatically exempt Board members from claims of breach of fiduciary duty under such circumstances. Our operating agreement contains provisions limiting the liability of our officers and directors to us, which also reduces remedies available to our Class A shareholders for certain acts by such persons. Our operating agreement also provides that to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law our directors or officers will not be liable to us other than in instances of fraud, gross negligence and willful misconduct. Accordingly, unless our officers and directors commit acts of fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct, our shareholders may not have remedies available against such individuals under applicable law. Under the DGCL, in contrast, a director or officer would be liable to us for (i) breach of duty of loyalty to us or our shareholders; (ii) intentional misconduct or knowing violations of the law that are not done in good faith; (iii) improper redemption of stock or declaration of a dividend, or (iv) a transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. Our operating agreement also provides that we will indemnify our directors and officers for acts or omissions to the fullest extent permitted by law other than in instances of fraud, gross negligence and willful misconduct, against all expenses and liabilities (including judgments, fines, penalties, interest, amounts paid in settlement with the approval of the Company and counsel fees and disbursements) arising from the performance of any of their obligations or duties in connection with their service to us or the operating agreement, including in connection with any civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or other action, suit or proceeding to which any such person may hereafter be made party by reason of being or having been one of our directors or officers. Under the DGCL, in contrast, a corporation can only indemnify directors and officers for acts or omissions if the director or officer acted in good faith, in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the best interests of the corporation, and, in a criminal action, if the officer or director had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. 40 Table of Contents In the future we may elect to rely on exceptions from certain corporate governance and other requirements under the rules of the NYSE. Because our partners control more than 50% of our voting power, we are eligible for the “controlled company” exception from NYSE requirements that our Board of Directors be comprised of a majority of independent directors and that our Compensation Committee and Nominating, Corporate Governance and Conflicts Committee consist solely of independent directors. Although we do not currently intend to utilize this exception, we may in the future determine to do so. Because our partners hold their economic interest in our business directly in the Och-Ziff Operating Group, conflicts of interest may arise between them and holders of our Class A Shares, particularly with respect to tax considerations. As of December 31, 2009, our partners held 79.1% of the equity in the Och-Ziff Operating Group directly through Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units, rather than through ownership of our Class A Shares. Because they hold their economic interests in our business directly through the Och-Ziff Operating Group, our partners may have conflicting interests with holders of Class A Shares or with us. For example, our partners will have different tax positions from holders of our Class A Shares which could influence decisions of the Class B Shareholder Committee and also our Board of Directors regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, and whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, especially in light of the existence of the tax receivable agreement. Decisions with respect to these and other operational matters could affect the timing and amounts of payments due to our partners and the Ziffs under the tax receivable agreement. In addition, the structuring of future transactions and investments may take into consideration our partners’ tax considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us. We intend to pay regular quarterly distributions but our ability to do so may be limited by our holding company structure, as we are dependent on distributions from the Och-Ziff Operating Group to make distributions and to pay taxes and other expenses. As a holding company, our ability to make distributions or to pay taxes and other expenses is subject to the ability of our subsidiaries to provide cash to us. We intend to make quarterly distributions to our Class A shareholders. Accordingly, we expect to cause the Och-Ziff Operating Group to make distributions to holders of the ownership interests, currently our intermediate holding companies, our partners and the Ziffs, pro rata in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay corresponding distributions to our Class A shareholders and make required tax payments and payments under the tax receivable agreement; however, no assurance can be given that such distributions will or can be made. Our Board of Directors can change our distribution policy or reduce or eliminate our distributions at any time, in its discretion. In addition, the Och-Ziff Operating Group is required to make minimum tax distributions to its direct unitholders, to which our Class A shareholders may not be entitled, as distributions on Och-Ziff Operating Group B Units to our intermediate holding companies may be used to settle tax liabilities, if any, or other obligations. As a result, Class A shareholders may not receive any distributions at a time when our partners and the Ziffs are receiving distributions on their ownership interests. If the Och-Ziff Operating Group has insufficient funds to make such distributions, we may have to borrow additional funds or sell assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Furthermore, by paying cash distributions rather than investing that cash in our business, we might risk slowing the pace of our growth, or not having a sufficient amount of cash to fund our operations, new investments or unanticipated capital expenditures, should the need arise. There may be circumstances under which we are restricted from making distributions under applicable law or regulation (for example, due to Delaware limited partnership or limited liability company act limitations on making distributions if liabilities of the entity after the distribution would exceed the value of the entity’s assets). The declaration and payment of any future distributions will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors, which may change our distribution policy or reduce or eliminate our distributions at any time, in its discretion. Because we have historically earned and recognized most of our incentive income in the fourth quarter of each year, we anticipate that quarterly distributions in respect of the first three calendar quarters will be disproportionate to 41 Table of Contents distributions in respect of the last calendar quarter, which will typically be paid in the first calendar quarter of the following year. Our Board of Directors will take into account such factors as it may deem relevant, including general economic and business conditions; our strategic plans and prospects; our business and investment opportunities; our financial condition and operating results; working capital requirements and anticipated cash needs; contractual restrictions and obligations, including payment obligations pursuant to the tax receivable agreement and restrictions pursuant to our term loan; legal, tax and regulatory restrictions; and other restrictions and implications on the payment of distributions by us to our Class A shareholders or by our subsidiaries to us and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Any compensatory payments made to our employees, as well as payments that Och-Ziff Corp makes under the tax receivable agreement and distributions to holders of ownership interests in respect of their tax liabilities arising from their direct ownership of ownership interests, will reduce amounts that would otherwise be available for distribution on our Class A Shares. In addition, any discretionary income allocations on any Class C Non-Equity Interests as determined by the Chairman of the Partner Management Committee (or, in the event there is no Chairman, the full Partner Management Committee acting by majority vote) in conjunction with our Compensation Committee, will also reduce amounts available for distribution to our Class A shareholders. We have granted Class A restricted share units to our managing directors, other employees, and independent members of our Board of Directors, which accrue distributions to be paid if and when the underlying Class A restricted share units vest. Distributions may be paid in cash or in additional Class A restricted share units that accrue additional distributions and will be settled at the same time the underlying Class A restricted share units vest. The declaration and payment of any distribution may be subject to legal, contractual or other restrictions. For example, as a Delaware limited liability company, we are not permitted to make distributions if and to the extent that after giving effect to such distributions, our liabilities would exceed the fair value of our assets. In addition, we will not be permitted to make distributions if we are in default under our term loan, and the term loan limits the amount of distributions we can pay to our “free cash flow,” as such term is defined in the term loan. Our cash needs and payment obligations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and we may have material unexpected expenses in any period. This may cause amounts available for distribution to significantly fluctuate from quarter to quarter or may reduce or eliminate such amounts. There are a number of risks involving the tax receivable agreement we are party to, including the risk that the Internal Revenue Service may challenge all or part of increased deductions and tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge, even with respect to amounts for which we have made payments pursuant to the tax receivable agreement. We may need to incur debt to finance payments under the tax receivable agreement to the extent our cash resources are insufficient to meet our obligations under the tax receivable agreement, which may or may not be available on favorable terms if at all. The actual increase in tax basis of the Och-Ziff Operating Group assets resulting from an exchange or from payments under the tax receivable agreement, as well as the amortization thereof and the timing and amount of payments under the tax receivable agreement, will vary based upon a number of factors (including the law in effect at the time of an exchange or a payment under the tax receivable agreement, the timing of future exchanges, the timing and amount of prior payments under the tax receivable agreement, the price of our Class A Shares at the time of any exchange, the composition of the Och-Ziff Operating Group’s assets at the time of any exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable and the amount and timing of the income of Och-Ziff Corp and our other intermediate corporate taxpayers that hold Och-Ziff Operating Group B Units in connection with an exchange, if any). Depending upon the outcome of these factors, payments that we may be obligated to make to our partners and the Ziffs under the tax receivable agreement in respect of exchanges are likely to be substantial. In light of the numerous factors affecting our obligation to make payments under the tax receivable agreement, however, the timing and amounts of any such actual payments are not reasonably ascertainable. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Distributions, Future Liquidity and Capital Needs.” The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) may challenge all or part of increased deductions and tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge, which could result in a substantial increase in our tax liabilities. Were the 42 Table of Contents IRS to challenge a tax basis increase, our partners and the Ziffs who have received payments under the tax receivable agreement will not reimburse the corporate taxpayers for any such payments that have been previously made. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made to our partners and the Ziffs under the tax receivable agreement in excess of the corporate taxpayers’ cash tax savings. The corporate taxpayers’ ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under this agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, including the timing and amount of our future income. Decisions made by our partners in the course of running our business, in particular decisions made with respect to the sale or disposition of assets or change of control, may influence the timing and amount of payments that are payable to an exchanging or selling partner or the Ziffs under the tax receivable agreement. In general, earlier disposition of assets following an exchange or acquisition transaction will tend to accelerate such payments and increase the present value of the tax receivable agreement, and disposition of assets before an exchange or acquisition transaction will tend to increase the tax liability of our partners or the Ziffs without giving rise to any rights to receive payments under the tax receivable agreement. In addition, the tax receivable agreement provides that, upon a merger, asset sale or other form of business combination or certain other changes of control, the corporate taxpayers’ (or their successors’) obligations with respect to exchanged or acquired units (whether exchanged or acquired before or after such change of control) would be based on certain prescribed assumptions, including that the corporate taxpayers would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement. Accordingly, obligations under the tax receivable agreement may make it more expensive for third parties to acquire control of us and make it more difficult for the holders of Class A Shares to recognize a premium in connection with any such transaction. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Distributions, Future Liquidity and Capital Needs.” If we are deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our business would be subject to applicable restrictions under that Act, which could make it impracticable for us to continue our business as contemplated and would have a material adverse impact on the market price of our Class A Shares. We do not believe that we are an “investment company” under the 1940 Act because the nature of our assets and the sources of our income exclude us from the definition of an investment company under the 1940 Act. In addition, we believe our Company is not an investment company under Section 3(b)(1) of the 1940 Act because we are primarily engaged in a non-investment company business. We intend to continue to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company. If we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated. In addition, we would no longer be treated, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as a partnership and our earnings would become taxable as a corporation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our Class A Shares. Risks Related to Our Shares The market price and trading volume of our Class A Shares has been and may continue to be highly volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our shareholders. The market price of our Class A Shares has been and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our Class A Shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. The market price of our Class A Shares may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the primary factors that could negatively affect the price of our Class A Shares or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Class A Shares include: Ÿ repurchase and retirement of portions of our term loan; Ÿ public offering of additional Class A Shares; 43 Table of Contents Ÿ reductions in our assets under management, whether due to poor investment performance by our funds or redemptions by investors in our funds; Ÿ global market and economic conditions; Ÿ loss of investor confidence in the global financial markets and investing in general and in alternative asset managers in particular; Ÿ actions taken by other hedge fund managers with respect to pricing, fund structure, redemptions, recruiting and compensation; Ÿ inability to execute on business strategies or plans; Ÿ variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends; Ÿ failure to meet our or analysts’ earnings estimates; Ÿ publication of research reports about us or the asset management industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our Class A Shares in the future; Ÿ additions to or departures of our partners and other key management personnel; Ÿ adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; Ÿ actions by shareholders; Ÿ changes in market valuations of similar companies; Ÿ speculation in the press or investment community about our business; Ÿ changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; and Ÿ adverse publicity about the asset management industry generally or individual scandals, specifically. The price of our Class A Shares may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale and for exchange into Class A Shares. The market price of our Class A Shares could decline as a result of sales of a large number of our Class A Shares or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2009, 81,823,915 Class A Shares were outstanding, 15,462,117 Class A restricted share units were outstanding pursuant to the Plan, and approximately 35,282,290 million Class A Shares remain available for future grant under the Plan. The Class A Shares reserved under the Plan are increased on the first day of each fiscal year during the Plan’s term by the positive difference, if any, of (i) 15% of the number of outstanding Class A Shares (assuming the exchange of all outstanding Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units for Class A Shares) on the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year over (ii) the number of shares reserved for issuance under the Plan as of such date. As of December 31, 2009, our partners and the Ziffs owned an aggregate of 310,706,479 Och-Ziff Operating Group A and D Units. The holder of any Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units has the right to exchange each of its Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units for one of our Class A Shares (or, at our option, a cash equivalent), subject to vesting, minimum retained ownership requirements and transfer restrictions. The Och-Ziff Operating Group D Units automatically convert into Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units to the extent we determine that they have become economically equivalent to Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units. We are party to a registration rights agreement with our partners such that our partners will have the ability to cause us to register the Class A Shares our partners acquire upon exchange of their Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units or otherwise and our partners and the Ziffs will have certain “piggyback” registration rights in connection with registered offerings of our securities. In addition, we will be required to file a shelf registration statement on or prior to the fifth anniversary of the IPO covering the resale of all Class A Shares held by our partners and the Ziffs or issuable upon exchange of their Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units. 44 Table of Contents Class A restricted share units may be settled at the election of a majority of our Board of Directors in Class A Shares or cash. Subject to continued employment over the vesting period, the underlying Class A Shares will be issued, or cash in lieu thereof will be paid, as such restricted share units vest. We filed a registration statement on Form S-8 to register an aggregate of 57,785,714 Class A Shares reserved for issuance under the Plan (not including automatic annual increases thereto). As a result, any Class A Shares issued in respect of the Class A restricted share units will be freely transferable by non-affiliates upon issuance and by affiliates under Rule 144, without regard to holding period limitations. DIC Sahir owns 38,138,571 of our Class A Shares, which it purchased from us concurrent with the consummation of our IPO pursuant to a Securities Purchase and Investment Agreement. Under the terms of such agreement, DIC Sahir will be permitted to transfer its Class A shares to any of its controlled affiliates at any time, and on each of the second, third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the purchase date, the transfer restrictions with respect to 25% of its Class A shares will terminate. As of December 31, 2009, the transfer restrictions with respect to 25% of DIC Sahir’s Class A shares have terminated. Upon the lapse of these restrictions, DIC Sahir will be able to sell these Class A Shares and is entitled to certain registration rights commencing on November 19, 2009. The terms of the Securities Purchase and Investment Agreement restrict DIC Sahir and its controlled affiliates from purchasing any additional Class A Shares. We may determine at any time to waive or amend any provisions of the Securities Purchase and Investment Agreement, including the ownership threshold set forth therein. An investment in our Class A Shares is not an investment in any of our funds, and the assets and revenues of our funds are not directly available to us. Class A Shares are securities of Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC only. While our historical consolidated and combined financial information includes financial information, including assets and revenues, of certain Och-Ziff funds on a consolidated basis, and our future financial information will continue to consolidate certain of these funds, such assets and revenues are available to the funds and not to us except through management fees, incentive income, distributions and other proceeds arising from agreements with funds. Our partners’ beneficial ownership of Class B Shares, our shareholders’ agreement, the tax receivable agreement and anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control. Our partners own all of our Class B Shares, which as of December 31, 2009, represent approximately 77.3% of the total voting power of our Company. In addition, our partners have granted an irrevocable proxy to vote all of such shares to the Class B Shareholder Committee (the sole member of which is currently Mr. Och) as it may determine in its sole discretion. This proxy will terminate upon the later of (i) Mr. Och’s withdrawal, death or disability or (ii) such time as our partners hold less than 40% of our total combined voting power. As a result, Mr. Och is currently able to control all matters requiring the approval of shareholders and will be able to prevent a change in control of our Company. In addition, under the shareholders’ agreement entered into in connection with the IPO, the Class B Shareholder Committee has approval rights with respect to certain actions of our Board of Directors, including actions relating to a potential change in control, so long as our partners continue to hold at least 40% of our total combined voting power and has the ability to initially designate five of the seven nominees to our Board of Directors, and, under our operating agreement, the Class B Shareholder Committee will have certain consent rights with respect to structural and other changes involving our Company. See “—Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure—Control by Mr. Och of the combined voting power of our shares could cause or prevent us from engaging in certain transactions, which could adversely affect the market price of the Class A Shares or deprive our Class A shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium as part of a sale of our Company.” In addition, the tax receivable agreement provides that, upon a merger, asset sale or other form of business combination or certain other changes of control, the corporate taxpayers’ (or any successors’) obligations with respect to exchanged or acquired units (whether exchanged or acquired before or after such change of control) would be based on certain prescribed assumptions, including that the corporate taxpayers would have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to 45 Table of Contents entering into the tax receivable agreement. The provisions may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our shareholders. Further, provisions in our operating agreement may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our shareholders. For example, our operating agreement provides for a staggered board of directors, requires advance notice for proposals by shareholders and nominations, places limitations on convening shareholder meetings, and authorizes the issuance of preferred shares that could be issued by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt. The market price of our Class A Shares could be adversely affected to the extent that Mr. Och’s control over us, as well as provisions of our operating agreement, discourage potential takeover attempts that our shareholders may favor. Finally, some provisions of Delaware law may delay or prevent a transaction that would cause a change in our control. In this regard, Section 203 of the DGCL restricts certain business combinations with interested stockholders in certain situations. In general, this statute prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction by which that person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. For purposes of Section 203, a business combination includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder, and an interested stockholder is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or within three years prior, did own, 15% or more of voting stock. While Section 203 does not apply to limited liability companies, such companies may elect to utilize it. Although we currently have elected not to utilize Section 203, we may in the future determine to do so. Risks Related to Taxation Our structure involves complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. Our structure also is subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative change and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of holders of the Class A Shares depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. You should be aware that the U.S. federal income tax rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS, and the U.S. Treasury Department, frequently resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to regulations and other modifications and interpretations. The IRS pays close attention to the proper application of tax laws to partnerships. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in the Class A Shares may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time, possibly on a retroactive basis, and any such action may affect investments and commitments previously made. For example, changes to the U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the qualifying income exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is not taxable as a corporation, affect or cause us to change our investments and commitments, change the character or treatment of portions of our income (including, for instance, treating carried interest income as entirely ordinary income), affect the tax considerations of an investment in us and adversely affect an investment in our Class A Shares. “Carried interest” is a term often used in the marketplace as a general reference to describe a general partner’s right to receive its incentive income in the form of a profit allocation eligible for capital gains tax treatment (to the extent that the carried interest consists of capital gains). See “—Several items of tax legislation are currently being considered which would, if enacted, preclude us from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the publicly-traded partnership rules. Our structure also is subject to potential judicial or administrative change and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.” Our organizational documents and agreements permit the Board of Directors to modify our operating agreement from time to time, without the consent of the holders of Class A Shares, in order to address certain changes in U.S. federal income tax regulations, legislation or interpretation. In some circumstances, such revisions could have a material adverse impact on some or all of the holders of our Class A Shares. Moreover, we will apply certain 46 Table of Contents assumptions and conventions in an attempt to comply with applicable rules and to report income, gain, deduction, loss and credit to holders in a manner that reflects such holders’ beneficial ownership of partnership items, taking into account variation in ownership interests during each taxable year because of trading activity. However, these assumptions and conventions may not be in compliance with all aspects of applicable tax requirements. It is possible that the IRS will assert successfully that the conventions and assumptions used by us do not satisfy the technical requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and/or Treasury regulations and could require that items of income, gain, deductions, loss or credit, including interest deductions, be adjusted, reallocated, or disallowed, in a manner that adversely affects holders of the Class A Shares. Several items of tax legislation are currently being considered which would, if enacted, preclude us from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the publicly-traded partnership rules and treat certain of our offshore funds as domestic corporations. Our structure also is subject to potential judicial or administrative change and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. In December 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4213, the Tax Extenders Act of 2009. That proposed legislation contains a provision that, if enacted, would have the effect of treating income recognized from “carried interests” as ordinary income. While the proposed legislation, if enacted in its current form, would explicitly treat such income as nonqualifying income under the publicly traded partnership rules, thereby precluding us from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the proposed legislation provides for a 10-year transition period before such income would become nonqualifying income. In addition, the proposed legislation could, upon its enactment, prevent us from completing certain types of internal reorganization transactions on a tax free basis and acquiring other asset management companies on a tax free basis. The proposed legislation may also increase the ordinary income portion of any gain realized from the sale or other disposition of a Class A Share. As a result of widespread budget deficits, several states are evaluating proposals to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any version of these legislative proposals were to be enacted into law in the form in which it was introduced, or if other similar legislation were enacted or any other change in the tax laws, rules, regulations or interpretations were to preclude us from qualifying for treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the publicly-traded partnership rules or otherwise impose additional taxes, Class A shareholders would be negatively impacted because we would incur a material increase in our tax liability as a public company from the date any such changes became applicable to us, which could result in a reduction in the value of our Class A Shares. On March 2, 2009, Senator Carl Levin introduced the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act in the United States Senate, similar to a prior legislative proposal from 2007. Among other effects, this proposal would, if enacted in its current form, subject our offshore funds to significant U.S. federal income taxes and potentially state and local taxes, which would adversely affect our ability to raise capital from foreign investors and certain tax-exempt investors. You may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on your share of our taxable income, regardless of whether you receive any cash distributions from us. So long as we are not required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act and 90% of our gross income for each taxable year constitutes “qualifying income” within the meaning of the Code on a continuing basis, we will be treated, under current law, as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and not as an association or a publicly-traded partnership taxable as a corporation. You may be subject to U.S. federal, state, local and possibly, in some cases, foreign income taxation on your allocable share of our items of income, gain, loss, deduction and credit (including our allocable share of those items of any entity in which we invest that is treated as a partnership or is otherwise subject to tax on a flow-through basis) for each of our taxable years ending with or within your taxable year, regardless of whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions equal to your allocable share of our net taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income. In addition, certain of our holdings, including holdings, if any, in a Controlled Foreign Corporation, which we refer to as “CFC,” and a Passive Foreign Investment Company, which we refer to as “PFIC,” may produce taxable income prior to the receipt of cash relating to such income, and holders of our Class A Shares that are United States persons will be 47 Table of Contents required to take such income into account in determining their taxable income. Under our operating agreement, in the event of an inadvertent partnership termination in which the IRS has granted us limited relief, each holder of our Class A Shares also is obligated to make such adjustments as are required by the IRS to maintain our status as a partnership. Such adjustments may require persons who hold our Class A Shares to recognize additional amounts in income during the years in which they hold such shares. We may also be required to make payments to the IRS. There can be no assurance that amounts paid as distributions on Class A Shares will be sufficient to cover the tax liability arising from ownership of Class A Shares. Any distributions paid on Class A Shares will not take into account your particular tax situation (including the possible application of the alternative minimum tax) and, therefore, because of the foregoing as well as other possible reasons, may not be sufficient to pay your full amount of tax based upon your share of our net taxable income. In addition, the actual amount and timing of distributions will always be subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and we cannot assure you that we will in fact pay cash distributions as currently intended. In particular, the amount and timing of distributions will depend upon a number of factors, including, among others: Ÿ general business and economic conditions and our strategic plans and prospects; Ÿ amounts necessary or appropriate to provide for the conduct of our business, including to pay operating and other expenses; Ÿ amounts necessary to make appropriate investments in our business and our funds and the timing of such investments; Ÿ our actual results of operations and financial condition; Ÿ restrictions imposed by our operating agreement and Delaware law; Ÿ contractual restrictions, including restrictions imposed by our term loan and payment obligations under our tax receivable agreement; Ÿ cash income allocations to our partners, if any, and compensatory payments made to our employees; Ÿ the amount of cash that is generated by our investments or to fund liquidity needs; Ÿ contingent liabilities; and Ÿ other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant. Even if we do not distribute cash in an amount that is sufficient to fund your tax liabilities, you will still be required to pay income taxes on your share of our taxable income. If we were to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the value of the Class A Shares may be adversely affected. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or on any other matter affecting us. Under current law and assuming full compliance with the terms of our operating agreement (and other relevant documents), we believe that we would be treated as a partnership, and not as an association or a publicly-traded partnership taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In general, if an entity that would otherwise be classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes is a “publicly-traded partnership” (as defined in the Code) it will be nonetheless treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, unless the exception described below, and upon which we intend to rely, applies. A publicly-traded partnership will, however, be treated as a partnership, and not as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, so long as 90% or more of its gross income for each taxable year constitutes “qualifying income” within the meaning of the Code and it is not required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act. We refer to this exception as the “qualifying income exception.” 48 Table of Contents Qualifying income generally includes dividends, interest, capital gains from the sale or other disposition of stocks and securities and certain other forms of investment income. We expect that our income generally will consist of interest and dividends (including dividends from Och-Ziff Corp), capital gains and other types of qualifying income, such as income from notional principal contracts, securities loans, options, forward contracts and future contracts. No assurance can be given as to the types of income that will be earned in any given year. If we fail to satisfy the qualifying income exception described above, items of income and deduction would not pass through to holders of the Class A Shares and holders of the Class A Shares would be treated for U.S. federal (and certain state and local) income tax purposes as shareholders in a corporation. In such a case, we would be required to pay income tax at regular corporate rates on all of our income. In addition, we would likely be liable for state and local income and/or franchise taxes on all of such income. Moreover, dividends to holders of the Class A Shares would constitute ordinary dividend income taxable to such holders to the extent of our earnings and profits, and the payment of these dividends would not be deductible by us. Taxation of us as a publicly-traded partnership taxable as a corporation could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flows and the after-tax returns for holders of Class A Shares and thus could result in a substantial reduction in the value of the Class A Shares. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our Class A Shares could be more or less than expected. If you sell your Class A Shares, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the adjusted tax basis in those Class A Shares. Prior distributions to you in excess of the total net taxable income allocated to you, which decreased the tax basis in your Class A Shares, will in effect become taxable income to you if the Class A Shares are sold at a price greater than your tax basis in those Class A Shares, even if the price is less than the original cost. We cannot match transferors and transferees of our Class A Shares, and we have therefore adopted certain income tax accounting positions that may not conform with all aspects of applicable tax requirements. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our Class A Shares. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of Class A Shares, we have adopted depreciation, amortization and other tax accounting positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our holders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of Class A Shares and could have a negative impact on the value of our Class A Shares or result in audits of and adjustments to our Class A shareholders’ tax returns. As we currently do not intend to make, or cause to be made, an otherwise available election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code to adjust our asset basis or the asset basis of OZ Advisors II, a holder of Class A Shares could be allocated more taxable income in respect of those shares prior to disposition than if such an election were made. We have not made and currently do not intend to make, or cause to be made, an election to adjust asset basis under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to the Registrant or OZ Advisors II. Without such an election, there will generally be no adjustment to the basis of the assets of OZ Advisors II upon our acquisition of interests in OZ Advisors II in connection with an exchange of Och-Ziff Operating Group A Units for Class A Shares, or to the assets of the Registrant or of OZ Advisors II upon a subsequent transferee’s acquisition of Class A Shares from a prior holder of such shares, even if the purchase price for those interests or shares, as applicable, is greater than the share of the aggregate tax basis of the assets of the Registrant or OZ Advisors II attributable to those interests or units immediately prior to the acquisition. Consequently, upon a sale of an asset by the Registrant or OZ Advisors II, gain allocable to a holder of Class A Shares could include built-in gain in the asset existing at the time the Registrant acquired those interests, or such holder acquired such shares, which built-in gain would otherwise generally be eliminated if a Section 754 election had been made. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profit interests will result in the termination of our Company as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have been terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. A termination 49 Table of Contents would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all holders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. Complying with certain tax-related requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive business or investment opportunities or enter into acquisitions, borrowings, financings or arrangements we may not have otherwise entered into. In order for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and not as an association or publicly-traded partnership taxable as a corporation, we must meet the qualifying income exception discussed above on a continuing basis and we must not be required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act. In order to effect such treatment we (or our subsidiaries) may be required to invest through foreign or domestic corporations, forego attractive business or investment opportunities or enter into borrowings or financings we may not have otherwise entered into. This may adversely affect our ability to operate solely to maximize our cash flows. Our structure also may impede our ability to engage in certain corporate acquisitive transactions because we generally intend to hold all of our assets through the Och-Ziff Operating Group. In addition, we may be unable to participate in certain corporate reorganization transactions that would be tax free to our holders if we were a corporation. To the extent we hold assets other than through the Och-Ziff Operating Group, we will make appropriate adjustments to the Och-Ziff Operating Group agreements so that distributions to our partners, the Ziffs and us would be the same as if such assets were held at that level. We may not be able to invest in certain assets, other than through a taxable corporation. In certain circumstances, we or one of our subsidiaries may have an opportunity to invest in certain assets through an entity that is characterized as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, where the income of such entity may not be “qualifying income” for purposes of the publicly-traded partnership rules. In order to manage our affairs so that we will meet the qualifying income exception, we may either refrain from investing in such entities or, alternatively, we may structure our investment through an entity classified as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the entity were a U.S. corporation, it would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its operating income, including any gain recognized on its disposal of its interest in the entity in which the opportunistic investment has been made, as the case may be, and such income taxes would reduce the return on that investment. The IRS could assert that we are engaged in a U.S. trade or business and that some portion of our income is properly treated as effectively connected income, which we refer to as “ECI,” with respect to non-U.S. holders of Class A Shares. Moreover, certain REIT dividends and other stock gains may be treated as effectively connected income with respect to non-U.S. holders of Class A Shares. While we expect that our method of operation will not result in a determination that we are engaged in a U.S. trade or business, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert successfully that we are engaged in a U.S. trade or business and that some portion of our income is properly treated as ECI with respect to non-U.S. holders. Moreover, dividends paid by an investment that we make in a Real Estate Investment Trust, which we refer to as a “REIT,” that is attributable to gains from the sale of U.S. real property interests will, subject to certain exceptions, and sales of certain investments in the stock of U.S. corporations owning significant U.S. real property may, be treated as effectively connected income with respect to non-U.S. holders. In addition, certain income of non-U.S. holders from U.S. sources not connected to any such U.S. trade or business conducted by us could be treated as ECI. To the extent our income is treated as ECI, non-U.S. holders generally would be subject to withholding tax on their allocable shares of such income and would be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return for such year reporting their allocable shares of income effectively connected with such trade or business and any other income treated as ECI, and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular U.S. tax rates on any such income (state and local income taxes and filings may also apply in that event). Non-U.S. holders that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes may also be subject to a 30% branch profits tax on such income. 50 Table of Contents Class A shareholders may be subject to foreign, state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our Class A Shares. While it is expected that our method of operation will not result in a determination that the holders of our Class A Shares, solely on account of their ownership of Class A Shares, are engaged in trade or business so as to be taxed on any part of their allocable shares of our income or subjected to tax return filing requirements in any jurisdiction in which we conduct activities or own property, there can be no assurance that the Class A shareholders, on account of owning Class A Shares, will not be subject to certain taxes, including foreign, state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes, imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct activities or own property now or in the future, even if the Class A shareholders do not reside, or are not otherwise subject to such taxes, in any of those jurisdictions. Consequently, Class A shareholders also may be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns in some or all of these jurisdictions. Furthermore, Class A shareholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of each Class A shareholder to file all United States federal, foreign, state and local tax returns that may be required of such Class A shareholder. Our delivery of required tax information for a taxable year may be subject to delay, which may require Class A shareholder to request an extension of the due date for their income tax returns. We have agreed to use reasonable efforts to furnish to you tax information (including Schedule K-1) which describes your allocable share of our income, gains, losses and deductions for our preceding taxable year. Delivery of this information by us will be subject to delay in the event of, among other reasons, the late receipt of any necessary tax information from lower-tier entities. It is therefore possible that, in any taxable year, our shareholders will need to apply for extensions of time to file their tax returns. An investment in Class A Shares will give rise to UBTI to certain tax-exempt holders of Class A Shares. Due to ownership interests we will hold in entities that are treated as partnerships, or are otherwise subject to tax on a flow-through basis, which will incur indebtedness or may engage in a trade or business, we will derive unrelated business taxable income, which we refer to as “UBTI,” from “debt-financed” property or from such trade or business, as applicable, and, thus, an investment in Class A Shares will give rise to UBTI to certain tax-exempt holders of Class A Shares. Och-Ziff Holding may borrow funds from Och-Ziff Corp or third parties from time to time to make investments. These investments will give rise to UBTI from “debt-financed” property. We may hold or acquire certain investments through an entity classified as a PFIC or CFC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Certain of our investments may be in foreign corporations or may be acquired through a foreign subsidiary that would be classified as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such an entity may be a PFIC or a CFC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. U.S. holders of Class A Shares indirectly owning an interest in a PFIC or a CFC may experience adverse U.S. tax consequences. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 